Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Our audit approach Report on the audit of the Overview Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 15.7 million 2016: 13.8 million, Materiality Opinion based on 5% of profit before tax.
In our opinion, Croda International Plcs We, as the Group engagement team, audited the two Audit scope Group financial statements the financial financially significant components the UK and the US statements : covering 43% of the Groups external revenues and 46% of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups profit before tax.
the Groups affairs as at 31 December For the next seven largest components of the Group, which 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for are audited by PwC component auditors the five largest as the year then ended: full scope audits and the remaining two subject to specified have been properly prepared in procedures, we were heavily involved at all stages of their accordance with IFRSs as adopted by audits by virtue of numerous communications throughout the the European Union: and process, including the issuance of detailed audit instructions, have been prepared in accordance review and discussion of audit findings, in particular over our with the requirements of the areas of focus.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards As a result of this scoping we obtained coverage over 75% of the Group financial statements, Article the Groups external revenues and 87% of the Groups profit 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, Provision for environmental remediation.
included within the Annual Report and Key audit Accounts the Annual Report, which matters Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liability.
comprise: the Group balance sheet as Taxation.
at 31 December 2017: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive To the best of our knowledge and belief, respond to the risk, recognising that income, the Group statement of cash we declare that non-audit services the risk of not detecting a material flows, and the Group statement of changes prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard misstatement due to fraud is higher than in equity for the year then ended: the were not provided to the Group.
the risk of not detecting one resulting from accounting policies: and the notes to the error, as fraud may involve deliberate financial statements.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors concealment by, for example, forgery or Report, we have provided no non-audit Our opinion is consistent with our reporting intentional misrepresentations, or through services to the Group in the period from to the Audit Committee.
We designed audit procedures 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. that focused on the risk of non-compliance Basis for opinion The scope of our audit related to the Groups financial conduct We conducted our audit in accordance As part of designing our audit, we as well as ongoing legal claims as a with International Standards on Auditing determined materiality and assessed the consequence of the Groups production UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our risks of material misstatement in the of speciality chemicals.
Our tests included responsibilities under ISAs UK are further financial statements.
In particular, we review of legal correspondence, discussions described in the Auditors responsibilities looked at where the Directors made with the Groups legal counsel and for the audit of the financial statements subjective judgements, for example in managements experts.
We did not section of our report.
We believe that respect of significant accounting estimates identify any key audit matters relating to the audit evidence we have obtained is that involved making assumptions and irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of sufficient and appropriate to provide considering future events that are our audits we also addressed the risk of a basis for our opinion.
management override of internal controls, Independence including testing journals and evaluating We gained an understanding of the legal We remained independent of the Group in whether there was evidence of bias by the and regulatory framework applicable accordance with the ethical requirements Directors that represented a risk of material to the Group and the industries in which that are relevant to our audit of the financial misstatement due to fraud.
it operates, and considered the risk of statements in the UK, which includes the acts by the group which were contrary to FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to applicable laws and regulations, including listed public interest entities, and we have fraud.
We designed audit procedures to fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Croda International Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Key audit matters not due to fraud identified by the auditors, addressed in the context of our audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in including those that had the greatest effect of the financial statements as a whole, and the auditors professional judgement, were on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation in forming our opinion thereon, and we do of most significance in the audit of the of resources in the audit: and directing the not provide a separate opinion on these financial statements of the current period efforts of the engagement team.
This is not a complete list of all and include the most significant assessed matters, and any comments we make on risks identified by our audit.
risks of material misstatement whether or the results of our procedures thereon, were Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provision for environmental remediation We obtained and read the Directors assessment of each specific Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page environmental matter that the Directors made us aware of, and assessed 93 Accounting Policies and page 119 notes.
the completeness of the list against publicly available information and other information on potential environmental exposure at current and former sites.
As a consequence of the Groups production of We performed audit work on each matter as there is a risk that the liability for chemicals, there are a number of open claims and each matter could be materially misstated.
litigation against the Group relating to soil and potential groundwater contamination on sites, We evaluated the Directors assumptions, both in terms of the likelihood of both currently in use and previously occupied.
the Group being found liable and also of any resulting financial obligation by: Environmental standards and legislation are reading publicly available information, correspondence with relevant specific to, and often contain unique requirements, stakeholders and other information available to the Directors relating to in each territory the Group operates in and may be the specific matters identified, and assessing the Directors assumptions subject to change.
As such, understanding the against this information: potential environmental risks and the financial reading remediation plans drawn up by the Directors external experts implications that the Group is exposed to is and considering whether the Directors have properly reflected them often complex.
in the calculation of the provision: The provision held for environmental liabilities evaluating the independence, objectivity and competence of the experts within the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 that the Directors engage to assess the likely outcome of the cases totalled 10.2 million, which relates to a number of against the Group, and the cost of remediation needed, by confirming matters.
For each matter, the Directors, in they are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the conjunction with experts they engaged, assessed respective local territory: the likelihood of the Group being found liable for comparing historic provisions with actual remediation costs incurred any remedial work and, where applicable the costs during the year to assess the Directors historical forecasting accuracy: of that work, as well as any associated fines and legal costs.
assessing the Directors accuracy in estimating exposures for fines and legal costs by comparing historic provisions for cases that have been Assessing the likelihood and quantum of any settled with the actual fine legal costs: financial obligations arising, requires judgement.
There is a risk that the provision could be materially discussing all matters with the Groups legal counsel and Vice President misstated and the required disclosures insufficient of Sustainability, and obtaining independent confirmations from the due to the inherent uncertainties and the potentially Groups external legal advisers on the progress of each claim: and wide range of outcomes and timelines in respect of discussing all matters arising in Europe and the US with local the resolution of each matter.
management, and corroborating information received from all parties.
The Directors performed a detailed assessment of We found, based on the results of our testing, that the provision recorded environmental liabilities to ensure that the level of and disclosures made in the financial statements were consistent with the environmental provision held remains appropriate.
We consider managements estimates to be a reasonable reflection of the current situation.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Financial Statements | Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme We primarily focused our work on the pension plan surplus deficit in the UK liability and the US which, together, account for the majority of the balance and, Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, hence, estimation uncertainty.
page 93 Accounting Policies and pages 106 We evaluated the Directors assessment of the assumptions they made in to 109 notes.
relation to the valuation of the liabilities in the pension plan as follows: The Group has a number of defined benefit we agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension schemes that, together, are in a net deficit pension liabilities to our internally developed expectations using our position of 30.5 million, which is material both in internal actuarial specialists and compared the assumptions around the context of the overall balance sheet and the salary increases and mortality to national and industry accepted results of the Group.
averages: The valuation of the pension liability requires we evaluated the competence of the experts that the Directors engaged significant levels of judgement and technical to calculate the defined benefit pension schemes, by confirming they are expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions, a qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry body: number of which can be volatile.
Small changes in we evaluated the sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities to differences a number of the key assumptions including salary between our independent judgements and those made by the Directors, increases, inflation, discount rates, and mortality both individually and in aggregate: and can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
we have reviewed the Trust Deed and Rules for the UK scheme to confirm that the Group has the unconditional right to the refund, in line with the requirements of IFRIC 14 and IAS 19R.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the assumptions used by the Directors in the valuation of the liability were within a range considered to be reasonable using an internally developed range of acceptable assumptions for valuing pension liabilities, based on our view of various economic indicators.
Taxation We evaluated the Directors assumptions for determining and calculating Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page the consolidated tax expense, balances and accruals.
For all in scope 93 Accounting Policies and pages 102 and 103 territories we: notes.
obtained the Groups tax computations and tested the deductions and Due to the large number of tax jurisdictions in tax rates applied by reference to local tax legislation: which the Group operates, the calculation of the obtained the Groups latest internal transfer pricing studies and Groups tax position is complex and is subject to associated documentation and used our internal tax specialists to assess scrutiny and challenge by different tax authorities.
its reasonableness: An error in the interpretation of, often complex, assessed the amount of the specific tax accruals based on our tax regulations, particularly relating to transfer experience of similar situations both related and unrelated to the Group: pricing, could lead to a material misstatement read the latest correspondence between the Group and tax authorities in the tax expense.
and considered any implications this may have had on the tax position The Group also holds a number of specific reported in the Groups financial statements: judgemental tax accruals that relate to specific utilised our experience of similar tax exposures and risks faced by other transfer pricing risks, open tax investigations audits multinational groups to assess the evidence described above: and and other such matters.
The estimation of the accrual is dependent on the Directors assessment compared the levels of tax expense by territory with the local statutory tax of the outcome of the outstanding matters.
rates and investigated the basis for any differences.
The Directors judgements in respect of the Groups position on uncertain tax items are supportable and reasonable in the context of the information currently available to them and no matters were identified by our work that the Directors had not adequately reflected in their estimate of the tax expense, balances and accruals.
Croda International Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain ensure that we performed enough work to quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, be able to give an opinion on the financial helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our statements as a whole, taking into account audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in the structure of the Group, the accounting evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial processes and controls, and the industry in statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial The Group operates through various statements as a whole as follows: components in 37 different countries across five continents.
Overall Group materiality We, as the Group engagement team, 5% of profit before tax.
How we determined it tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able We believe that profit before tax is the primary Rationale for to give an opinion on the financial measure used by the shareholders in assessing benchmark applied statements as a whole, taking into account the performance of the Group, and is a generally the geographic structure of the Group, the accepted auditing benchmark.
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality We, as the Group engagement team, hat is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated performed an audit of the complete across components was between 0.7 million and 14.0 million.
Certain components financial information for the two financially were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall significant componentsthe UK and the Group materiality.
For the next five largest components We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements of the Group, PwC component auditors, identified during our audit above 0.8 million 2016: 0.7 million as well as misstatements under our instructions, performed an audit below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
of their complete financial information.
PwC component auditors also performed Going concern specified procedures at the two next In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: largest components of the Group.
Reporting obligation Outcome Where the work was performed by PwC component auditors we determined We are required to report if we have anything We have nothing material to add the level of involvement we needed to have material to add or draw attention to in respect of or to draw attention to.
However, in the audit work at those components to the Directors statement in the financial because not all future events or be able to conclude whether sufficient statements about whether the Directors conditions can be predicted, this appropriate audit evidence had been considered it appropriate to adopt the going statement is not a guarantee as to obtained as a basis for our opinion on the concern basis of accounting in preparing the the Groups ability to continue as Group financial statements as a whole.
financial statements and the Directors a going concern.
We were involved at all stages of their identification of any material uncertainties to the audits by virtue of numerous communications Groups ability to continue as a going concern throughout the process, including the over a period of at least twelve months from the issuance of detailed audit instructions, date of approval of the financial statements.
review and discussion of audit findings, in particular over our areas of focus.
We are required to report if the Directors We have nothing to report.
We, as the Group engagement team, statement relating to going concern in were also responsible for other head accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is office activities such as the consolidation, materially inconsistent with our knowledge financial statement disclosures and share obtained in the audit.
The procedures performed over the components either by the Group team or PwC component audit teams and specifically by the Group team for example, on goodwill, accounted for 75% of the Groups external revenues and 87% of the Groups profit before tax.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Financial Statements | Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Reporting on other information whether the other information is materially With respect to the Strategic Report and inconsistent with the financial statements Directors Report, we also considered The other information comprises all of the or our knowledge obtained in the audit, whether the disclosures required by the UK information in the Annual Report other or otherwise appears to be materially Companies Act 2006 have been included.
than the financial statements and our misstated.
If we identify an apparent Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are Based on the responsibilities described material inconsistency or material responsible for the other information.
Our above and our work undertaken in the misstatement, we are required to perform opinion on the financial statements does course of the audit, the Companies Act procedures to conclude whether there is a not cover the other information and, 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing material misstatement of the financial accordingly, we do not express an audit Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority statements or a material misstatement of opinion or, except to the extent otherwise FCA require us also to report certain the other information.
If, based on the work explicitly stated in this report, any form of opinions and matters as described we have performed, we conclude that assurance thereon.
below required by ISAs UK unless there is a material misstatement of this otherwise stated.
In connection with our audit of the financial other information, we are required to report statements, our responsibility is to read the that fact.
We have nothing to report based other information and, in doing so, consider on these responsibilities.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 35 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 81, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 51 to 57 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Croda International Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Responsibilities for the financial A further description of our responsibilities Appointment statements and the audit for the audit of the financial statements Following the recommendation of the is located on the FRCs website at: Responsibilities of the Directors Audit Committee, we were appointed by www.
for the financial statements the Directors in 1970 to audit the financial This description forms part of our As explained more fully in the Statement of statements for the year ended December Auditors Report.
Directors Responsibilities set out on page 1970 and subsequent financial periods.
81, the Directors are responsible for the The period of total uninterrupted Use of this report preparation of the financial statements in engagement is 48 years, covering the This report, including the opinions, has accordance with the applicable framework years ended December 1970 to been prepared for and only for the and for being satisfied that they give a true December 2017.
Companys members as a body in and fair view.
The Directors are also accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Other matter responsible for such internal control as they the Companies Act 2006 and for no other determine is necessary to enable the purpose.
We do not, in giving these We have reported separately on the preparation of financial statements that are opinions, accept or assume responsibility Company financial statements of Croda free from material misstatement, whether for any other purpose or to any other International Plc for the year ended due to fraud or error.
person to whom this report is shown or 31 December 2017 and on the information into whose hands it may come save where In preparing the financial statements, the in the Directors Remuneration Report expressly agreed by our prior consent Directors are responsible for assessing the that is described as having been audited.
Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters Other required reporting related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Companies Act 2006 exception Ian Morrison the Directors either intend to liquidate the reporting Senior Statutory Auditor Group or to cease operations, or have no Under the Companies Act 2006 we are for and on behalf of realistic alternative but to do so.
required to report to you if, in our opinion:  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibilities for the audit we have not received all the information Auditors of the financial statements and explanations we require for our Leeds Our objectives are to obtain reasonable audit: or assurance about whether the financial 27 February 2018 certain disclosures of Directors statements as a whole are free from remuneration specified by law are not material misstatement, whether due to made.
fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
We have no exceptions to report arising Reasonable assurance is a high level of from this responsibility.
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87
