94 Directors Report: Governance Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report Annual General Meeting on pages 79 and 80.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts which hold The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 26 April 2018 at The British Medical shares on trust for employees under various share schemes, generally abstain Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
from voting at shareholder general meetings in respect of shares held Formal notice of the AGM including details of the special business being by them.
proposed is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 151 to 157 and on the No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital Companys website at www.
In line with recent and all issued shares are fully paid.
practice and good governance, voting on all resolutions at this years AGM will again be conducted by way of a poll.
The Board believes that this method of Substantial interests voting gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their The persons set out in the table below have notified the Company pursuant to votes counted as part of the process, whether their votes are tendered by Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the proxy in advance of, or in person at, the AGM.
ordinary share capital of the Company.
Web communication At 27 February 2018, no change in these holdings had been notified nor, With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted web communication.
according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder at that date The benefits of web communication are that it: have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued share capital.
enables the Company to significantly reduce its printing and Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, are shownin postage costs: the Remuneration Report on page 91.
The Board strongly believes in thealignment of interests between senior management and the enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day documents Companysshareholders.
are published on the Companys website: and reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and Substantial interests in the Companys shares were as follows: therefore helps to reduce the impact of printing, mailing and related As at activities on the environment.
As at 31 December 2017 27 February 2018 Number Percentage Shareholder communications including the 2017 Annual Report and of of issued Accounts are available electronically through the Companys website.
Number of Percentage of shares voting shares held issued voting held share Over 85% of the Companys shareholders use either electronic or Name millions share capital millions capital web communication.
BlackRock, Inc. 182.5 5.58 182.5 5.58 The Company will of course continue to provide hard copy documentation to Legal & General Group Plc 98.5 3.02 98.5 3.02 those shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to do so.
Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.02 96.4 3.02 Registrar The Companys registrar is Link Asset Services formerly known as Capita Dividend Asset Services.
Their details, together with information on the services and facilities available to shareholders, are set out in the Shareholder Facilities An interim ordinary dividend of 2.30 pence per ordinary share was paid on section on pages 158 to 159.
3 November 2017 and the Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.44 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, Capital structure increases the total ordinary dividend for the year to 4.74 pence 2016: 2.82 pence.
Information relating to the recommended 2017 final ordinary dividend is Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with information on set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and in the notes to resolution 2 the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are on page 155 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Directors also recommend a special dividend for 2018 of 10.4 pence per The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, each of ordinary share 2017: 9.2 pence.
Information relating to the recommended which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and 2018 special dividend is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Companys Articles of in the notes to resolution 3 on page 155 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual Association, and Deferred Shares which carry no voting rights.
The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 27 April 2017 for the The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, further Company to purchase a maximum of 327,136,000 of its own shares details of which are set out on page 158 of this Annual Report.
TheDRIP will remained valid at 31 December 2017.
The authority was not exercised during operate automatically in respect of the 2017 final ordinary dividend forthose 2017 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company has no current intention shareholders who have previously registered a DRIP mandate unless varied of exercising this authority but will nevertheless be seeking the usual renewal by shareholders beforehand and also in respect of all future dividends, of this authority at the AGM and the Board will continue to keep the position including special dividends, until such time as each participating shareholder under regular review.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
elects to withdraw from the DRIP, or the DRIP is suspended orterminated in There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise of accordance with the Terms and Conditions of the plan.
TheBoard will voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by the Articles continue to keep the availability of the DRIP under regularreview.
of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any Shareholders are again reminded to check their position with regard to any agreement or agreements between holders of the Companys shares that dividend mandates that are in place, should they either wish to participate in may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless or until revoked.
The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs over those Trusts combined holding of 13,052,331 shares.
Moredetails of these ESOTs are contained in Note 25 on pages 133 to 134.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 to see improved scores in areas such as customer service, flexible working, Research and development training, benefits package and how employees feel that our cultural principles Our Research and Development initiatives Project 2020 continued throughout make Taylor Wimpey a better place to work, which were clear areas of focus 2017 with its focus on three key areas: a Design Competition, a pilot on Direct following the 2015 survey.
Labour and a project looking at increasing the use of timber frame.
Looking ahead, the areas of focus for the forthcoming period are: how we In 2016 we held an architectural competition with the Royal Institute of British can continue to improve our collaboration: how we can work together more Architects, looking for exciting new ideas in home design.
Through 2017 our effectively: and how we ensure employees have the tools and resources they regional teams have been working with the competition winners Openstudio, need to do their job.
to develop their designs for use in three trial sites.
Each of the three sites will use a different construction method, traditional masonry, timber frame, or CLT Building on our approach to communication, we produced a short video clip, cross laminated timber allowing us to compare the production efficiency and as well as a paper based report, for all employees summarising the 2017 energy performance of differing construction methods as well as the design results which was well received.
opportunities given by the designs.
The completed trials are due to be We continue to maintain our active employee consultation committees in our delivered in 2018. regional business units and communicate with employees via our half yearly Openstudio Architects Infinite House is a set of contemporary housing Teamtalk employee magazine and regular Teamtalk Express email prototypes designed to offer maximum flexibility, customisation and cost newsletter.
Our intranet includes a wide range of employee information from efficiency, and to maximise levels of natural light and the perception of space.
human resources policies to advice for employees on sustainable living.
It The Infinite Houses external envelope allows it to adapt to suit different also includes an Open Door forum that puts employees directly in touch contexts without appearing to be a repeated house type, maintaining the with our Chief Executive.
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of repetition and structural standardisation.
During 2017 building on the employee voice initiatives considered by the During 2017 we also instigated a Direct Labour pilot involving six business Government we established a National Employee Forum the NEF.
Chaired units to determine the feasibility of increasing our direct labour workforce.
by Tim Betts, Divisional Managing Director, the first NEF meeting took place Through many industry wide reports and internal analysis it is evident that the in October 2017, with topics discussed including customer service and industry as a whole has a considerable challenge ahead regarding the business attire.
capacity and capability of key trades within our future workforce.
We currently With a minimum of two meetings anticipated annually it remains the intention have limited control over our subcontractor base in terms of their size, growth, that the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman will attend the mobility, skills, training, recruitment and commitment.
We have therefore taken NEF from time to time and also seek feedback on specific topics via the this opportunity to pilot growth in our direct labour pool which will allow Taylor Group Legal Director and Company Secretary or other Group Management Wimpey to construct a sustainable work force which will be able to address Team members as appropriate.
current and future market challenges in volume and quality.
The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular communication The Project 2020 development initiatives in respect of our alternative build throughout the Group on both business-related issues and items of general methods were concluded in the early part of 2017.
The build method that interest.
There is a formal Employee Consultation Committee structure in excelled in the trials above all others was timber frame.
This is a wellplace in all operations and elected representatives meet with management to established method of construction with a wealth of industry knowledge and consult on appropriate issues.
Intranet systems are continually updated which by coincidence is already extensively used by us in Scotland.
provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an important A strategy was developed and a target set to increase the usage of timber facility for providing employees with access to a wide range of information.
frame to 20% of all completions by 2020.
Throughout 2017 the strategy Information is regularly cascaded throughout the Group via email including progressed in the development of a set of standard timber frame house regular communications from the Chief Executive and via verbal briefings designs complemented by a set of standard timber frame construction and and management presentations.
The Companys internal magazine provides system details.
These house designs and details will provide the foundation for a further communication option.
the future in setting one national standard.
Timber frame sites and plot We have also utilised social media to inform our employees of developments completions have already been identified and are progressing in line with around the Company and to invite their feedback on them.
have enthusiastically engaged with this new internal communication channel In 2017, we completed a further phase of development of our Carbon Futures and we have seen an increase in the sharing of best practice: employees approach to quantify the carbon dioxide emissions for entire sites.
This interacting in a wider business sense: and the spread of knowledge around approach takes into account the buildings but also the carbon absorption of the Group.
Around half of our employees now post and engage on a regular green and blue infrastructure throughout the site.
In 2018 we plan to get the basis and usage and membership is growing steadily.
Carbon Futures approach verified by the leading consultancy the Carbon During 2017, we also saw the launch of our first e-learning modules, which Trust.
Also in 2017 we supported the Horizon Group at the Supply Chain can be accessed via any PC, laptop tablet or mobile phone.
Forming part of Sustainability School.
The Horizon Group is a collaboration between the our induction process for new employees, the four modules provide useful construction industry and leading construction academics.
Its vision is of a information in an engaging and interactive format in the following areas: supply chain with greater capability to deliver a sustainable built environment Welcome to Taylor Wimpey this e-learning module navigates users through the development and implementation of collaborative research.
around the company, tells them what our business is about and gives an overview of the different functions.
This is particularly useful for Employee involvement and communication employees who enter the business from a non-housebuilding We are proud of how committed our employees are to Taylor Wimpey and background.
the long term success of our business.
We strive to listen to and engage with all staff and employees.
During 2017 we completed a further Talkback Survey, The role of a PLC this module informs users about the different elements of what it means to be a fully listed public limited company with the overall results continuing to be extremely positive.
The response rate significantly improved from 55% in 2015 to 72% with a particularly pleasing PLC, the rules and processes around this and the corporate governance we must adhere to.
It also provides an overview of shareholder and increase from our weekly paid site based employees where we saw an improvement from 18% in 2015 to 67% in 2017. board responsibilities.
Diversity and Inclusivity these two modules one for all employees Whilst there was no change in the overall employee engagement which and one specifically for line managers help users understand in more remains at a strong 93%, further high scores in willing to go the extra mile detail our commitment to building a more diverse and inclusive 97% and proud to work for TW 95% were seen.
It was also very pleasing workforce as well as the roles and responsibilities they have in supporting our commitments.
co. uk 96 Directors Report: Governance Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued The Modern Slavery Act the Modern Slavery Act aims to tackle slavery connections, age, membership or non-membership of a trade union, or in the UK and came into effect in March 2015.
The module outlines Taylor disability.
We are committed to making reasonable adjustments wherever Wimpeys commitment to tackling modern slavery and how all employees possible.
In exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and safety can play their part.
We are also raising awareness more generally around considerations on construction sites, some adjustments are not possible.
Data Protection and the new GDPR regime.
Instruction on equal opportunities is part of the induction programme and we have created two diversity e-learning educational modules which will help Whilst they do form part of our induction for new employees, in view of the employees to understand in more detail our commitment to building a more useful content, we also made these available to existing employees.
In addition, as we continue to focus on retaining our employees during Our Diversity Policy can be found on the Companys website at increasing challenges across the Industry such as skill shortages, we embarked www.
co. uk corporate sustainability our-policies on a series of business unit roadshows during 2017.
The focus is to communicate and raise awareness of benefits offered as part of our total Employment of people with disabilities reward offer.
Where necessary we have tailored the presentations to suit It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair consideration for all local requirements and audiences.
Continuous development of our career sites look and feel, as well as its The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring that people performance, is key to how we appeal to and engage with potential with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply for employment and candidates.
Throughout the year we have looked to add more content, links to achieve progress once employed.
They will be treated so as to ensure that and videos to increase engagement and application conversions.
This year we they have an equal opportunity to be selected, trained and promoted.
In saw an overall increase in visits and a real spike in activity during the graduate addition, every reasonable effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in recruitment drive.
the employment of the Group by investigating the possibility of making We have added video content to ensure prospective candidates from outside reasonable adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
of our sector are clear on what our technical functions are responsible for We have increased the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
The videos also promote diversity, career development and culture Working with key partners, we hope to increase more permanent and three areas that are integral to developing and maintaining a strong secondment opportunities for people with disabilities.
For example, we continue to engage with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Externally we have driven more content on career partner sites such as Change 100 Programme, a charity that provides talented disabled students LinkedIn and Glassdoor which has resulted in increased page views for our th with the opportunity to participate in a 100 day summer internship and company profiles and more followers.
This culminated in being rated 15 in professional development programme.
Feedback from the students who the Glassdoor 2018 Best Places to Work survey.
participated in the programme in 2017 has been very positive and we intend The Company promotes employee share ownership as widely as possible to engage with the programme further during 2018. across the business.
In addition to the various share-related reward plans described in the Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 80, the Company also Modern Slavery Act offers a scheme whereby employees who do not participate in the Annual The Company welcomes the aims and objectives of the Modern Slavery Act Bonus Scheme cash bonus scheme are offered the opportunity each year to 2015 and continues to take its responsibilities under the Act with the exchange any cash bonus awarded for exceptional performance, into shares seriousness that it requires and deserves.
A dedicated team meets regularly of the Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in to ensure that objectives continue to be met.
The Company will shortly be shares and retained for a designated period.
The scheme has operated since publishing its second statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
It will be 2012 and in 2017 resulted in 349,835 shares 2016: 333,307 being acquired available on our website at www.
In addition to the above, the Company also maintains two all-employee share Charitable donations plans, namely, the Save As You Earn share option plan and the Share We support charities and issues that are relevant to our business, Incentive Plan SIP, which are offered as widely as possible across the Group.
We aim to make a positive impact through The proportion of our eligible employees who either participate in one or both donations of time, money and materials and through encouraging our plans or who are already shareholders of the Company has risen to 57%.
We focus on smaller national charities as well as regional and local organisations where we can have a significant impact and Equal opportunities our employees can be active participants.
We strive to treat our employees fairly and with respect at all times.
We have We want to understand the difference that we are making to our charity policies and processes in place to ensure that we act in accordance with our partners and how we can increase our impact.
We carried out a number of vision, mission and values which encompass equal opportunities, antisite visits to our partners during the year and used their feedback to help harassment and bullying, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We encourage direct our future donations.
For example, following a visit to St Mungos we our employees and subcontractors to speak up about concerns over any are now covering the cost of their employing a trainer to improve the skills and wrongdoing at work and provide access to an independent reporting expertise of their staff.
Our national charitable donations are overseen and prioritised by our Charity We remain committed to the belief that embracing diversity and inclusion will Committee.
The Charity Committee members include senior executives such enable Taylor Wimpey to succeed through a workforce that is creative and as our Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and Group Human innovative.
We continue to actively embrace the local communities in which Resources Director, as well as a combination of employees from across the we operate and will strive to reflect their richness and character, including business including mid-management and junior staff such as land managers, such aspects as gender, race and religion but also diversity of thought, personal assistants and graduate trainees.
In addition to the national charities background and experience.
we support, our regional businesses have a discretionary charity budget to As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality of opportunity support a number of other local charities and initiatives.
in all of our employment practices, policies and procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the framework of applicable law, we are committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects that of the local catchment area within which we operate.
No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, family Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 We focus on charitable initiatives that support: In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Aspiration and education: Projects which promote aspiration and education in disadvantaged areas Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Tackling homelessness: Intervening and improving homeless situations for Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable seriously economically disadvantaged groups in the UK and prudent.
Local projects: Initiatives that have a direct link with our regional State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, businesses and developments subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
During the year, Group companies donated 816,000 2016: 763,000 to various charities, the majority of which were in the UK.
We recognise that Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is volunteering can be beneficial for the charities we support, the communities in inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
which we work and for our employees development and self-awareness.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Following the introduction of our Volunteering Policy in 2016, whereby Standard 1 requires that Directors: employees are entitled to take up to four half-days or two full days paid leave per year, many employees at all levels around the country gave up their work Properly select and apply accounting policies.
and free time to participate in fundraising events for charitable causes Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that including St. Mungos: The Youth Adventure Trust: CRASH: Crisis UK and provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Further information on the Groups donations, activities and initiatives can be requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the found in Optimising and enhancing value on page 35 and in the Sustainability impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Report 2017 which will shortly be available on the Companys website: www.
entitys financial position and financial performance.
co. uk corporate sustainability Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
Political donations The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that The Company has a policy of not making donations to political parties, and are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose has not made any this year and neither does it intend to make any going with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company forward.
The Company does support certain industry-wide and trade and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the organisations which directly assist the house building industry such as the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Home Builders Federation and the Confederation of British Industry.
Whilst we of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and do not regard this support as political in nature in any way, the Companies Act detection of fraud and other irregularities.
2006 definition of political organisations and related terms is very wide and in certain circumstances a donation, subscription or membership fee paid to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the such organisations or to a charity could retrospectively be categorised as a corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
political donation from a strict legal perspective.
Accordingly, as a matter of Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and prudent corporate governance, the Company will therefore be seeking the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in usual annual dispensation from its shareholders at the 2018 AGM, so as to be other jurisdictions.
able to continue with the above memberships and make charitable donations In accordance with Provision C. 1 of the Code, the Directors are required, inter up to defined levels, without inadvertently breaching the applicable legislation.
alia, to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Agreements model and strategy.
Details of how this was addressed are set out in the Audit The Companys borrowing and bank facilities contain the usual change of Committee Report on page 66. control provisions which could potentially lead to prepayment and cancellation by the other party upon a change of control of the Company.
There are no Responsibility statement other significant contracts or agreements which take effect, alter or terminate The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: upon a change of control of the Company.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Branches position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in A subsidiary has a branch in Spain, the former activities of which were taken the consolidation taken as a whole.
over some years ago by our Spanish subsidiary Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. whose details appear on page 159.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Important events since the year end undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2017.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to Directors responsibilities statement assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Accordingly, Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In accordance with company law, the James Jordan Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, Taylor Wimpey plc give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit 27 February 2018 or loss of the Company for that period.
co. uk 98 98 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report In relation to the key audit matters, we have added the Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc Significant accounting for the leasehold provision due to the material changes in In our opinion: nature of this provision and the judgement required in our approach the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the estimating the liability.
We no longer include the net realisable value of inventory as a Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 key audit matter.
Over recent years the provision has reduced and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: significantly, both in value and in the number of sites it relates the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in to.
Furthermore, the improvement in the macro-economic accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs environment since the financial crisis and the strength of the as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the housing market have reduced the risk of this balance being International Accounting Standards Board IASB : materiality misstated.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared There have been no significant changes in our approach in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting to scoping the audit and in determining materiality.
Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and Disclosure Framework: and viability statement the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term We have audited the financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc viability of the Group contained within the strategic report, on page 41. the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the disclosures on pages 36-41 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Directors confirmation on pages 41 and 66 that they have carried the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, in Equity: including those that would threaten its business model, future the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and performance, solvency or liquidity: the related Notes 1 to 32 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about Notes 1 to 15 of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys ability by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements date of approval of the financial statements: is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why Accepted Accounting Practice.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to Basis for opinion whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the audit.
statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical respect of these matters.
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key Audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, inventory costing and margin recognition: Matters were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the defined benefit pension scheme accounting: and current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material accounting for the leasehold provision misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the year identified with.
The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements Materiality was 40.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial pre-tax profit for the year, excluding exceptional items.
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not Based on our scoping assessment, our Group audit is provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Scoping focused on the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures For each key audit matter we perform procedures to assess the design and which represents the principal segment within the Group and implementation of key controls in mitigating the risk that the associated accounts for 98% of the Groups net operating assets, 98% balances are misstated.
of the Groups revenue and 97% of the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional income.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
