98 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 98 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, intu properties plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group's profit and the Group's and the Company's cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company's financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Context During the year to 31 December 2017, there have been no significant changes to business operations, investment property market yields, or to accounting standards relevant to the Group.
On 6 December 2017, Hammerson plc made an all-share offer to acquire the entire share capital of the Company.
The most significant transactional activity was in relation to the acquisition and subsequent disposal of a 50% interest in Madrid Xanad and the agreement to dispose of a 50% interest in intu Chapelfield.
Our audit approach is largely consistent with the prior year.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 107.9m 2016: 103.6m, based on 1% of Total Assets.
Overall Company materiality: 38.8m 2016: 39.2m, based on 1% of Total Assets.
Materiality The Group and Company financial statements are produced by the Groups central finance department using a single, consolidated general ledger, and the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
Audit scope Valuation of investment and development property.
Key audit intu Costa del Sol development property.
matters Acquisition of Madrid Xanad and subsequent 50% disposal.
intu Chapelfield Held for sale 50% disposal.
Financial statemen Financial statement ts s 99 99 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK tax legislation as applicable to a REIT.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
p We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of Investment and Development Property Assessing the Valuers expertise and objectivity Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, pages 114 to 115 We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their Accounting policies, page 112 significant use of estimates terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there and assumptions and note 14 to the financial statements.
were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with other engagements which might exist between the Group and the the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property Valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of any valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material change, Valuer in their performance of the valuations was compromised.
warrants specific audit focus in this area.
Data provided to the Valuers Investment Property The Groups Investment and Development Properties are shopping centres and development projects and comprise the majority of the We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether property assets in the Group balance sheet, their carrying value amounting to specific current information supplied to the Valuers by management 9.18 billion.
reflected the underlying property records held by the Group and which have been tested during our audit.
The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers Investment Property location and the expected future rental revenues for that particular We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings property.
Moreover, in 2017 there were relatively few relevant UK with each of the Valuers.
Our testing also involved the use of our internal shopping centre transactions against which to compare yield real estate valuation experts who are qualified chartered surveyors.
We confirmed that the valuation approach for each property was in The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CBRE, Knight accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining the carrying Frank, Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle the Valuers.
value in the Group balance sheet.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and performed their work Our work focused on the largest properties in the portfolio and those in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS properties where the assumptions used and or year-on-year capital Valuation Global Standards 2017. value movement suggested a possible outlier versus market data for The Valuers used by the Group are well-known firms, with considerable the shopping centre sector.
We compared the investment yields used experience of the market in which the Group operates.
by the Valuers to an estimated range of expected yields, determined Investment Property In determining a propertys valuation the via reference to published benchmarks.
Whilst there was little directly Valuers take into account property specific current information such as the current tenancy agreements and rental income attached to the asset.
They then apply other assumptions such as yield and current 100 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 100 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and comparable transactional based evidence, the disposals of 50% interests comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due in intu Chapelfield and Madrid Xanad, which transacted at amounts to the unique nature of each shopping centre, the assumptions to close to prior valuations, provided support for the investment yields be applied are determined having regard to the individual property being used.
characteristics at a granular, unit-by-unit level, as well as considering We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions that are the qualities of the shopping centre as a whole.
not so readily comparable to published benchmarks, such as Estimated Development Property Development properties are valued using Rental Value, void rates and rent-free periods.
Finally, we evaluated the residual appraisal method i. e. by estimating the fair value of year-on-year movements in capital value with reference to published the completed project using the income capitalisation method less benchmarks.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or estimated costs to completion including a market based profit margin were otherwise deemed unusual, and or there were unexpected providing a return on development risk.
movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held further discussions with the Valuers.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers and our review of the valuation reports that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, unit-byunit level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
Development Property In 2017, the principal development property was intu Costa del Sol.
In relation to this property the Group used external expert reports to assist them in arriving at estimated rental cashflows used for income capitalisation and construction costs assumptions for the development appraisal.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether this property specific information supplied to the Valuers by the Group was reasonable and in line with the external expert reports.
We also considered the reasonableness of market assumptions such as investment yields and market based profit margin, involving our internal real estate valuation experts.
Overall findings Our procedures indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in the context of the Groups investment and development property portfolio and reflected recent market transactions and the market circumstances as at year end.
intu Costa del Sol development In respect of the assumption in relation to the receipt of the final planning permission, we reviewed the approved general planning Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, pages 114 to 115 permission as well as legal advice obtained by the Group, which sets Accounting policies, page 112 significant use of estimates and out the status of planning permissions.
Based on this legal advice, assumptions and note 14 to the financial statements.
discussions held with management and the Valuers, we concur that Land at Costa del Sol the project, which was previously held planning status is now sufficiently advanced for a development at cost as a close approximation of fair value, has been valued at appraisal valuation methodology to be appropriate.
31 December 2017 on a development appraisal basis using an In respect of the equity allocation, we reviewed supporting evidence assumption of obtaining final planning permissions for the project.
setting out arrangements with Eurofund.
As it will be settled in equity of Further, upon achievement of planning permission, intus development a subsidiary of the Group it is deemed appropriate that the transaction is partner, Eurofund, is due an allocation of equity as a consideration for treated as an equity settled share-based transaction under IFRS 2, services provided in relation to this development project.
This has now Share-based payments.
Given the Group currently owns 100% of the been recognised as an equity settled share-based payment crediting equity of the subsidiary, it is appropriate to not recognise non-controlling equity of the Group.
On settlement of the transaction, the credit to interests in the current financial year.
equity is expected to be transferred to non-controlling interests.
Acquisition of Madrid Xanad and subsequent 50% disposal With respect to the acquisition, we inspected the purchase agreements and assessed whether the classification as a business combination and Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, pages 113 and 116 treatment of the various aspects of the transaction were in accordance Accounting policies, page 112 significant areas of judgement with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
and notes 16, 33 and 34 to the financial statements.
We carried out procedures to assess the fair value of the consideration On 10 March 2017, intu acquired the Madrid Xanad shopping and of the assets and liabilities being acquired, the most significant being centre from Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc.
The acquisition was accounted the investment property for which we reviewed the Valuers report for as a business combination.
valuing the property on the date of acquisition involving our internal real estate valuation experts.
Financial statemen Financial statement ts s 101 101 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter On 26 May 2017, intu exchanged contracts with TH Real Estate, on With respect to the disposal, we read the sale and purchase agreement behalf of its European Cities Fund, to form a 50 50 joint venture in and other documents related to the sale to determine whether it was relation to Madrid Xanad.
On 31 July 2017, following receipt of the appropriate to account for Madrid Xanad as a joint venture.
No issues regulatory approvals, the transaction completed.
arose from these procedures the shareholders agreement grants each party an equal number of board members all with equal voting rights and, because all decisions about the relevant activities of the business require the consent of both parties, Madrid Xanad was deemed to be subject to joint control.
We also considered the financial statement disclosures in respect of the initial acquisition and the subsequent part disposal and concluded that they are in accordance with applicable accounting standards IFRS 3 Business combinations and IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
intu Chapelfield Held for sale 50% disposal We have inspected the agreement entered into with the purchaser and note the completion was subject to the necessary EU merger Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, page 116 Accounting clearance which has subsequently been received on 11 January 2018. policies, page 112 significant areas of judgement and note 35 to the The classification of 100% of the disposal group as Held for sale in financial statements.
the 31 December 2017 Group Balance Sheet is consistent with the In November 2017, intu announced the disposal of a 50% interest in requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and intu Chapelfield creating a joint venture with LaSalle Investment Discontinued Operations.
Management on behalf of Greater Manchester Pension Fund and West Yorkshire Pension Fund the purchaser.
As at 31 December 2017, contracts had been exchanged, but the completion of the transaction was subject to EU merger clearance.
The assets and liabilities relating to intu Chapelfield have therefore been classified as Held for sale.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Although the Group has some interests in shopping centre operations outside the UK and the Group is structured as two operating segments, it operates a single reporting process with a centralised accounting function, therefore the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using numbers which are maintained on a single, consolidated trial balance, by the Groups finance department.
The majority of the underlying accounting records are maintained on the Groups single general ledger.
For Manchester Arndale, Cribbs Causeway, Centaurus Retail Park and St Davids, Cardiff rental income and property expense numbers are submitted quarterly by external property managers to the Groups finance department, who then review and enter the numbers onto the Groups general ledger.
We perform tests of controls over the review of the quarterly submissions and entry onto the Groups general ledger, and tests of details over the numbers within those submissions.
Quarterly submissions are also submitted to the Groups finance department for intu Asturias, Puerto Venecia and Madrid Xanad, by the intu Spain finance team.
We carry out controls testing over these submissions in the same manner as for the UK submissions as above.
We instructed the PwC Spain audit team to perform specified substantive procedures on the submission packs prepared by intu Spain, and held regular discussions with PwC Spain throughout the planning and execution phases of the audit.
We assessed the findings of the work performed by them in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
102 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 102 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality Specific materiality Overall materiality Materiality level 107.9m 2016: 103.6m.
How we determined it 1% of Total Assets.
5% of Underlying Earnings Before 1% of Total Assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we We have applied this lower In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to the carrying materiality to line items that make have had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, up underlying earnings before tax value of the Companys assets, acknowledging that the primary and associates, plus other finance acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the costs, on the basis that they merit measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of more detailed audit work than the Company is the carrying value investment property.
This overall materiality level would of its investment in subsidiaries.
represents a consistent year-on-year require, given heightened focus This represents a consistent basis for determining materiality.
from users of the accounts.
We year-on-year basis for determining have used underlying earnings materiality.
before tax and associates as a more consistent benchmark, which is not impacted by valuation movements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10.8 million Group audit 2016: 10.3 million and 3.8m Company audit 2016: 3.9m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of We have nothing material to add or to the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it draw attention to.
However, because appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and not all future events or conditions can be the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability predicted, this statement is not a guarantee to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval as to the Groups and Companys ability of the financial statements.
to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Financial statemen Financial statement ts s 103 103 Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 96 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 96 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on pages 38 and 39 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 70 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 96, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 71 to 75 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 104 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 104 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment On its formation, we were appointed as auditors of Liberty International plc the Company's predecessor for the year ended 31 December 1999 and subsequent financial periods.
Our predecessor firm were auditors of the pre-existing Group, prior to group restructurings and renamings, for the period ended 31 December 1980 and subsequent financial periods.
Considering this, the period of total uninterrupted engagement with the Group is at least 37 years, covering the period ended 31 December 1980 to the year ended 31 December 2017.
Ranjan Sriskandan Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 February 2018
