INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Elementis plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the Consolidated balance sheet: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the Consolidated financial statement related notes 1 to 33: the parent company balance sheet: the parent company statement of changes in equity: and, the parent company statutory accounts related notes 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
80 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Environmental provisions: Acquisition accounting for SummitReheis: and, Revenue recognition.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was $5.0m which equates to 4.8% of profit before tax adjusted for discontinued operations, acquisition and restructuring costs and other adjusting items.
Scoping We have performed full scope audits of 5 components and specified audit procedures of 2 components, comprising 93% of the Groups revenue and 99% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes Following the announcement of the acquisition of SummitReheis, we have identified a new key audit matter in our approach to report in respect of the acquisition accounting of SummitReheis and 2 new components consisting of SummitReheis US and SummitReheis Europe.
We do not consider deferred tax assets and post-retirement benefits as key audit matters as these were not the areas that had greatest impact on our audit.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and nothing material to report, their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to add or draw attention to in do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent We confirm that we have with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the nothing material to report, evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a add or draw attention to in going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention respect of these matters.
to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 33-36 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
81 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Environmental provisions Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations In line with other companies within the to the key audit matter As a result of our work, chemicals industry, Elementis holds provisions We have audited the assumptions used in we have concluded that the for the monitoring and remediation of a number managements calculation of the provision.
provisions held by Elementis of operating and legacy sites, including those Our procedures included: in relation to environmental sold off or no longer occupied.
In accordance Holding discussion with management remediation and monitoring with Elementis environmental provision policy, and the Groups external environmental appear reasonable.
a provision is recognised for the restoration of consultants on the identified environmental contaminated land.
As at 31 December 2017, issues to confirm our understanding of the Elementis holds a provision of $31.6m current situation and the process by which 2016: $31.4m against these liabilities.
management and the external consultants prepared the cash flow forecasts: The accounting for these provisions involves Assessing the appropriateness of forecast of judgement as to the estimated future cash individual cost categories on each significant flows required to remediate these sites.
site selected for completeness testing The determination of these cash flows and through discussions with site managers the discount rates applied is fundamental at relevant locations: to this key audit matter.
For a sample of locations, challenging the key assumptions and inputs to forecast The Groups accounting policy is included the cash flows and agreeing the inputs within note 1 to the consolidated financial to supporting documentation: statements where this is also included as Engaging our internal valuation experts a critical accounting judgement.
There is to challenge the appropriateness of the additional disclosure included within note 15. discount rates applied by comparison The Audit Committee discussion is included to our own internal benchmark data: on page 52.
Reviewing the previous estimates made of expected outflows to actual outflows to determine the reasonableness of the project spend: and, Performing searches of external databases to determine completeness of the identified environmental issues and sites.
82 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Acquisition accounting for SummitReheis Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations In March 2017, Elementis acquired to the key audit matter We noted no material SummitReheis for a consideration of $370.3m.
Our procedures included: misstatements in respect The acquisition meets the definition of a Reviewing the relevant sale and of the judgements taken by business combination and is therefore purchase agreement: management and concluded required to be accounted for under IFRS 3 Testing the cash value of consideration that the disclosures made Business Combination.
to relevant transaction agreements and are adequate.
bank statements: Management commissioned independent Reviewing the process that management valuation experts to assist with the had undertaken to determine the fair value identification and valuation of the separate of the business acquired including the fair intangible assets.
The acquisition of value of the intangible assets: SummitReheis resulted in the identification Engaging Deloittes internal valuation and recognition of goodwill of $203.0m and specialists to review and challenge the other intangible assets of $159.1m.
identification of intangible assets, the appropriateness of the valuation techniques Accounting for business combinations is used and benchmark the reasonableness complex and requires the recognition of both of the key assumptions used, such as consideration paid and acquired assets and discount rates, useful economic lives liabilities at the acquisition date at fair values, and growth rates: which can involve significant judgement and Evaluating the information supporting estimates.
These comprise the identification the valuation model and assumptions, and valuation of intangible assets acquired for example, the operating profit forecasts in business combinations, including key and churn assumptions used in the fair assumptions such as the discount rates, value analysis: and growth rates and asset lives of separately Reviewing the adequacy of disclosures identifiable intangible assets.
regarding the key judgements made and assets and liabilities acquired.
The Groups accounting policy is included within note 1 to the consolidated financial statements where this is also included as a critical accounting judgement.
These significant judgement areas are also referred to within the Audit Committee report on page 52.
Further details are disclosed in note 10 and note 31.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations Revenue is recognised when significant risks to the key audit matter From the work performed, and rewards of ownership have been We have performed the following procedures we concluded that revenue transferred to the buyer and an adjustment is in order to address the key audit matter: recognised in the year is made at the period end for goods which have reviewed and assessed the commercial appropriate.
been despatched but have not yet met the arrangements covering shipments, criteria for recognition.
This adjustment is to determine the correct point of revenue made using managements best estimate of recognition for different shipment the date at which goods reach the destination arrangements and agreements port.
Management have determined, based with customers: on the shipping terms, to recognise revenue selected a sample of international shipments at a reliable estimate of the date at which made pre-year end for time periods varying goods reach the destination port.
Given the by destination port and therefore transit time level of management judgement involved, for shipments and agreed these to customer we identified this key audit matter as a order, shipment and invoice details, cash potential fraud risk.
receipts and goods receipt notes: and, substantively tested post year end credit The accounting policy is described in note 1 notes raised to determine if revenue was where this is also included as a critical inappropriately recognised in the year.
These significant judgement areas are also referred to within the Audit Committee report on page 53.
83 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality $5.0 million 2016: $4.7m $2.5m 2016: $2.4m Basis for determining Materiality was set on the basis of 4.8% of A factor of 3% of net assets was used capped materiality profit before tax, adjusted for discontinued to an appropriate component materiality 50% operations, acquisition and restructuring 2016: 50% of Group materiality.
costs and other adjusting items.
In the prior year, materiality was set on the basis of forecast profit before tax on the basis of 6.2% of the Groups profit before tax.
Rationale for the We have revisited the basis of our materiality We have used net assets in determining benchmark applied calculation from last year and have excluded materiality as we believe this is an appropriate acquisition, restructuring and other adjusting basis for materiality as it reflects the nature of the items.
Our rationale for these items is that these parent company as a holding company and its are one off costs and are routinely added back contribution to the Group performance.
by analysts in analysing Company performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $250 thousand 2016: $235 thousand for the Group and $125 thousand 2016: $115 thousand for the parent company, as well as differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted reporting on the qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on the disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
84 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The scope of our audit increased for 2017 due to the acquisition of SummitReheis and we therefore identified an additional 2 components in relation to this, in addition to the 6 components from the prior year.
Of these 8 components, 7 are considered to be significant to the Group: the Specialty Products operations in the US, the Chromium operations in the US: the Specialty Products operations in the UK: the Specialty Products operations in Taiwan, including the Chinese operations: the Surfactants operations in the Netherlands: the SummitReheis operations in the US: and, the SummitReheis operations in Europe.
All 7 of these locations were subject to full scope audits or audits of specified account balances which were performed by local component teams, except the Speciality Products UK operations where the Group audit team performed the audit without the involvement of a component team.
Our audit work at the 7 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $2.5m to $2.8m 2016: $2.35m to $2.8m.
The in-scope locations those at which a full scope audit or audit of specified balances were performed represent the principal business units within the Groups operating divisions and account for 93% 2016: 88% of the Groups revenue and 99% 2016: 94% of the Groups profit before tax.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
As part of the audit process, the senior members of the audit team visited 6 of the 7 significant locations 2016: 5 of 5 set out above: in addition the Group Audit Partner visited US component team twice.
During our visits, we attended key meetings with component management and auditors, and reviewed detailed component audit work papers.
In addition to the planned program of visits, all key component audit teams were represented during a centralised planning meeting prior to the commencement of our detailed audit work.
The purpose of this planning meeting was to ensure a good level of understanding of the Groups businesses, its core strategy and a discussion of the significant risks and our planned audit report.
We also send detailed instructions to our component teams, include them our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
The parent company is located in the UK and audited directly by the Group audit team.
Revenue Profit before tax Full scope audit 81% 98% Audit of specified account balances 12% 1% Review at Group level 7% 1% 85 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
86 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 27 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments of the firm is 2 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
CHRISTOPHER POWELL, FCA, SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 February 2018 87 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 88 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section: 90 Consolidated income statement 90 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 91 Consolidated balance sheet 92 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 93 Consolidated cash flow statement 94 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements 130 Parent company statutory accounts 132 Notes to the company financial statements of Elementis plc 89 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
