Financial Financial S Statements tatements Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017, which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows, company balance sheet, company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, which include the accounting policies.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework': and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Directors in December 2003 prior to the Company becoming the parent company of the now ITV Group on 2 February 2004.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement for the listed ITV Group is 14 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
108 108 ITV ITV p plc lc A A nnual nnua Repo l Reprt orand t and A Acco ccunts ount2017 s 201 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc The risk Our response Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,591 million 2016: 1,672 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 75 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 124 accounting policy and pages 125 and 126 financial disclosures Subjective estimate Our procedures included: The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to regulation Control operation: testing of controls, assisted by our own IT under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system CRR.
CRR works by specialists, including those over: segregation of duties, input of ensuring that the annual share of TV advertising that will be placed annual deal terms with agencies, input of individual campaigns with ITV by each advertising agency can change in relation to the terms and pricing, comparison of those terms and pricing data viewing figures for commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR against the related contracts with advertising agencies: link to system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements with transmission viewer data: and the system generated calculation advertising agencies and the details of each advertising campaign, of deal debt for each campaign.
together with the related processes and controls, are complex and Assessing estimate: challenging the year end deal debt positions involve estimation.
based on comparison with customers correspondence and agreed In particular, the complexity of the pricing mechanism means it is terms of business.
possible for a difference to arise between the price received by ITV Test of detail: confirming that the transmissions occurred prior for an advertising campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a to invoices being raised and revenue recognised by agreeing the result of the actual viewing figures differing from the expected level transmissions to the corresponding spots.
Where the Group has over-delivered viewers, this is Assessing disclosures: we also assessed the adequacy of the referred to as a deal credit, or a deal debt where delivery has fallen Group's disclosures in respect of the accounting policies on short.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted at revenue recognition.
the end of the campaign, these differences are noted for each agency Our results: and then taken into account when agreeing either future campaigns or the annual contract.
A net deal debt position with an agency is From the evidence we obtained, we found the resulting amount recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
Net deal credit positions are of recorded NAR and the estimated level of deal debt position not recognised.
liabilities to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
NAR is therefore considered a significant risk due to: The number and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies: The complexity of the systems and processes of control used to record revenue: and, The level of estimation involved in determining any deal debt liability at the period end.
1 109 09 Financial Financial S Statements tatements Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc continued The risk Our response Other revenue streams Non-NAR revenue 2,066 million 2016: 1,855 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 75 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 124 accounting policy and pages 125 and 126 financial disclosures Complex contract accounting Our procedures included: Non-NAR revenue includes revenue from: programme production Assessing principles: we considered the Groups revenue and the sale of programme rights within the Studios segment: recognition policies against the relevant accounting standards.
transmission supply arrangements and the Online, Pay & Interactive Test of detail: on a sample basis we assessed revenue contracts division within the Broadcast segment.
entered into during the year, and considered whether revenue had Recognition of revenue is driven by the specific terms of the related been recognised in accordance with the contractual terms in the contracts and is considered to be a significant risk as the terms of correct accounting period, given the requirements of the relevant the contracts are varied and can be complex, with the result that accounting standard.
accounting for the revenue generated in any given period can require Assessing disclosures: we also assessed the adequacy of the individual consideration and judgement.
Due to the contractual Groups disclosures in respect of the accounting policy on nature of these revenue streams, the focus of our work is on the revenue recognition.
risks associated with significant one-off contracts.
Our findings: From the evidence we obtained we found the resulting amount of recorded Non-NAR to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Gross defined benefit pension scheme obligations 3,987 million 2016: 4,200 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 74 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 153 accounting policy and pages 153 to 161 financial disclosures Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Significant estimates are made in determining the key assumptions Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the key financial used in valuing the Groups post-retirement defined benefit obligations.
assumptions applied in determining the Groups gross pension When making these assumptions, the Directors take independent obligations, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life actuarial advice relating to their appropriateness.
expectancy, with the support of our own actuarial specialists.
This In addition, the Group has a longevity swap, the valuation of which is included a comparison of these key assumptions against externally complex being dependent mortality and longevity experience.
Assessing application: assessing methodology applied to the The valuation of the gross defined benefit obligations and longevity longevity swap valuation and challenging underlying mortality swap are considered a significant risk given the quantum of the gross assumptions against externally derived data, with the support of pension obligation, the impact of the longevity swap on the net our own actuarial specialists.
obligation position, and that a small change in assumptions can Assessing disclosures: considering the adequacy of the Groups have a material financial impact on the Group.
disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the gross defined benefit obligations to these assumptions.
Our findings: The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the valuation of the gross pension obligations and the longevity swap to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries 2,191 million 2016: 1,861 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 181 accounting policy and pages 183 financial disclosures Low risk, high value Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in Test of detail: comparing the carrying amount of 100% of the subsidiaries represents 34% 2016: 29% of the parent companys investments balance 2016: 100% with the relevant subsidiaries total assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were to their materiality in the context of the parent company financial in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our results: We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
110 110 ITV ITV p plc lc A A nnual nnua Repo l Reprt orand t and A Acco ccunts ount2017 s 201 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 28 million 2016: 35 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before tax of 568 million 2016: 623 million which excludes the pre-paid employment-linked remuneration charge, the exceptional bad debt provision in relation to the contract receivables and the non-recurring element of the property project costs disclosed in note 2.2, of which materiality represents 5% 2016: 5.5%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set as 27 million 2016: 34 million determined with reference to the benchmark of the Companys total assets, of which it represents 0.4% 2016: 0.5%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.4 million 2016: 1.7 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and coverage Revenue profit before tax Total assets Group audited 81% Group audited 94% Group audited 90% specified risk-based specified risk-based specified risk-based audit procedures 7% audit procedures 1% audit procedures 2% Out of scope 12% Out of scope 5% Out of scope 8% The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the core UK operations comprising Broadcast and Online, the UK Studios, Global Entertainment and the central functions as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 20 million 2016: 25 million.
Talpa Media B. V. a significant component of the Group in the Netherlands was subject to an audit for Group reporting purposes.
The Group audit team instructed the component auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks described above and the determination of the information to be reported back.
Specified audit procedures were performed by other component auditors, as instructed by the Group audit team, on two entities in the US included in our scope based on the relative size of their operations.
The Group audit team set the materiality of 5 million 2016: 5 million for both the audit of the component and the specified audit procedures.
The Group audit team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The Group audit team held several telephone conference meetings with the component audit teams to assess the audit risk and strategy.
The Group audit team also visited the component in the Netherlands.
At this visit and in these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Together, the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 88% 2016: 90% of Group revenue, 95% 2016: 89% of Group profit before taxation: and 92% 2016: 90% of total Group assets.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors' statement in note 1 on page 120 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Company's use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 106 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
111 111 Financial Financial S Statements tatements Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc continued 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work, we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on pages 58 and 59 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the risks and uncertainties on pages 52 to 57 disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
112 112 ITV ITV p plc lc A A nnual nnua Repo l Reprt orand t and A Acco ccunts ount2017 s 201 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc 7.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 106, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of broadcasting regulations recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 28 February 2018 1 113 13
