112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
"We have audited the financial statements of Drax Group plc the ""parent company"" and its subsidiaries ""the group"" which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: the basis of preparation and statement of accounting policies: the related group notes 2.1 to 8.3: and the related parent company notes 1 to 9 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union."
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identied in the current year were: Asset impairment of Drax Power Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts Estimation of retail unbilled revenue Within this report, any new key audit matters are identied with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identied with Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 6.8m 2016: 4.2m.
This was determined on a blended basis taking into consideration a number of available metrics, with particular focus on Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA and excluding unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts and material one-off items, as this measure is of direct relevance to readers of the financial statements.
Our selected materiality represents approximately 3% of EBITDA for the year.
Scoping We focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass.
All of these were subject to a full scope audit.
These four locations represent the principal business units and account for virtually all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
significant changes We have completed the audit of Opus Energy for the first time, following its acquisition by the Group in inourapproach February 2017.
Other aspects of our audit approach remain broadly consistent to the prior year but we have continued to rene our key audit matters as detailed below.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 113 CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement on page 119 to the financial statements about whether they nothing material to report, add considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their or draw attention to in respect identication of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a of these matters.
period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, add knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of or draw attention to in respect the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are of these matters.
required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 5157 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' conrmation on page 111 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements for the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We previously identied onsite biomass stocks as a key audit matter reflecting the judgement inherent in calculating the volume of biomass stocks owned by the Group.
Following the reduction in biomass stock as a result of an onsite re during December 2017, we no longer consider this to be a key audit matter.
The appropriateness of asset useful economic life assumptions is no longer considered to be a key audit matter following the reduction in the accounting lives of the coal specic assets from 1 January 2017.
The valuation and recoverability of Renewable Obligation Certicates ROCs is no longer considered to be a key audit matter.
The ROC valuation process has historically been free from material error and it is well established.
114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED ASSET IMPAIRMENT OF DRAX POWER Key audit matter description Property, plant and equipment of 1.7bn 2016: 1.6bn is held on the balance sheet at the year end, the majority of which relates to the power generation plant.
Net assets at the year end were 1.7bn 2016: 2bn and the market capitalisation was 1.1bn 2016:1.5bn.
Management considered indicators of impairment in respect of each Cash Generating Unit CGU.
Despite improvements in achieved spreads within key commodity markets and a period of relative stability with respect to relevant government policy, the market capitalisation of the Group continues to be below the net asset value.
This is considered to be an indicator of the risk of impairment and accordingly management performed an impairment review for the Drax Power CGU in the current year, as this is the CGU which contains the majority of the Groups assets.
As noted in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in note 2.4 and the Audit Committee report on page 76, asset impairment has been considered a key risk by the Audit Committee.
Fixed assets are disclosed in note 3.1.
The impairment testing is subject to the application of management judgement in identifying relevant CGUs and various assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use for each CGU identied.
These assumptions include the achievability of the long-term business plan.
Managements assessment also considers changes in the business which may give rise to additional CGUs, for example the acquisition of Opus Energy in February 2017.
Due to the level of management judgement involved in assessing impairment, we have identied this as a fraud risk.
The significant judgements made by management have been disclosed in note 2.4 and include: The expected operating lives of the six generating units: Future commodity prices beyond the horizon of existing contracted purchases, particular long-term power prices at both baseload and peak times, and future biomass prices, particularly given that biomass is not a standardised commodity traded openly on exchanges: The continuance of existing biomass support regimes until 2027 and the existence of a favourable economic environment for biomass generation thereafter: and The discount rate applied to forecast future cashflows.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls related to asset impairment testing.
responded to the key audit matter We have challenged managements identication of CGUs, taking into consideration the independence of cash flows across key components of the business and across the power generating units.
We identied the key judgements made by management and utilised our internal valuation specialists to benchmark key market related assumptions including future commodity prices, current and future capacity and other support mechanisms and discount rates against external data where available.
For example, we have compared the commodity price assumptions to the latest available Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy DBEIS and National Grid forecasts.
We have considered the liquidity of the biomass market and the impact that Drax could have on that market as a result of the volumes of biomass it requires and its potential impact on price.
We have also challenged the underlying assumptions and significant judgements used in managements impairment model by: Running a range of sensitivities to assess whether an impairment would be required if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted: Assessing the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts by comparing them to actual performance: Verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models: and Assessing whether the disclosures in note 2.4 of the financial statements appropriately disclose the key judgements taken so that the reader of the accounts is aware of the impact in the financial statements of changes to key assumptions that may lead to impairment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 115 ASSET IMPAIRMENT OF DRAX POWER CONTINUED Key observations We are satisfied that the discount rate is determined based on acceptable valuation methodologies.
While it is lower than the ranges determined by our internal valuation specialists, increasing the discount rate to be within our range would not lead to an impairment.
Although we note that assumptions relating to long term revenues and costs are inherently difficult to assess, we believe that the assumptions used by management were reasonable, and based on the sensitivities that we performed on these assumptions, we are satisfied that no impairment is required.
VALUATION OF COMMODITY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS Key audit matter description Unrealised losses on derivative contracts recognised in the income statement in the year are 156m 2016: unrealised gains of 177m, with related derivative assets of 366m and liabilities of 204m recognised on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017.
The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies, and assumptions in respect of future market prices and credit risk factors.
Due to the large amount of data involved in the contract valuations, and the requirement for certain manual adjustments, we have identied a fraud risk relating to management or employees of the company valuing trades inappropriately.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 119 and 120 and the Audit Committee report on pages 76 to 80.
Section 7 sets out the financial risk management notes.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related responded to the key audit to the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
matter We used our internal financial instrument specialists to test managements key judgements and calculations, including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets, conrming key contractual terms such as volumes and contracted prices.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management, including any manual adjustments to determine the fair value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
We have analysed the appropriateness of managements forward price curve assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements, such as asset impairment.
We have challenged managements approach and assumptions involved in assessing fair value adjustments such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments.
Key observations From our testing, we are satisfied that the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts is appropriate.
We consider the valuation models used by management to be appropriate and the forward curve assumptions adopted are within an acceptable range.
116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED ESTIMATION OF RETAIL UNBILLED REVENUE Key audit matter description The recognition of retail revenue requires an estimation of customer usage between the date of the last meter reading and year end, which is known as unbilled revenue.
Across the retail division, unbilled revenue at the balance sheet date amounted to 195 million 2016:119million.
The method of estimating unbilled revenues is complex and judgemental and requires assumptions for both the volumes of energy consumed by customers and the related value.
We identied a fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition in the retail business, in particular to the estimates underpinning unbilled revenue as these judgement areas could be manipulated by management to mis-report revenue.
Accrued income is disclosed in note 3.5.
We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit to the estimation of unbilled revenue.
This included controls over the reconciliation of meter readings matter provided by the energy markets, and which are used by management to estimate the power supplied.
Wealso tested the controls over the price per unit applied in the valuation of unbilled revenue.
When external market information was not available at the balance sheet date we also obtained and considered managements reconciliation of the volume of power purchased to their calculations of revenue supplied and completed sample tests to check that the December unbilled revenue amount was subsequently billed.
We also reviewed the aggregate unbilled revenue balance from previous periods to test that the amounts recognised were subsequently billed in line with the values accrued.
Key observations Our retrospective reviews of estimated revenues found that management have historically achieved a high level of accuracy.
We considered the estimates for revenue made in the year to be appropriate.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 6.8m 2016: 4.2m 4.1m 2016: 3.8m Basis for determining We have determined materiality by considering We have capped materiality at 60% of the materiality materiality a range of possible benchmarks and the gures identied for the Group.
This is a judgement and derived from those, with a particular focus on reflects the significant value of investments held on selecting a materiality within the range that we the balance sheet at the year end 713m.
This included EBITDA excluding unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts and material one-off items, profit before and after interest and tax as well as the scale of the balance sheet and the overall size of the business.
The increase in materiality from prior year is primarily due to the acquisition of Opus Energy.
Rationale for the When determining materiality, we have considered When determining materiality, we considered the net benchmark applied the size and scale of the business and the nature assets of the company as its principal activity is as an of its operations.
We have also considered which investment holding company for the Group.
benchmarks would be of relevance to the users of the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 117 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3m 2016: 0.2m for the parent company and group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations 2016: three locations which excludes Opus Energy which was acquired in February 2017, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass.
All of these locations were subject to a full scope audit and they represent the principal business units and account for virtually all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax, in line with 2016.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identied above.
Our audit work at four locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 3.5 million to 5.2 million 2015: 2.1 million to 3.8 million.
At the parent company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
During 2017 the Senior Statutory Auditor visited two of the four key locations being Drax Power and Drax Biomass, and other senior team members visited the remaining two.
OTHER INFORMATION Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent We have nothing to report in otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
respect of these matters In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
118 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identied any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of respect of these matters directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 13 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is 13 years, covering the years ending 2005 to 2017, inclusive.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
James Leigh FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 February 2018
