STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar Investment Trust Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 22, including a summary of signi cant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have ful lled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 13 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors con rmation set out on page 13 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 18 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on pages 13 and 14 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or to apply the appropriate accounting treatment.
Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio, including incorrect application of exchange rate movements or failure to assess stock liquidity appropriately.
Materiality Overall materiality of 9.36 million which represents 1% of net assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in our audit of the financial statements of the current year and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identi ed.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 29 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 29 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate income We performed the following procedures: We have no matters to communicate recognition through failure to recognise with respect to our assessment of the Obtained an understanding of the proper income entitlements or apply the Managers and Administrators processes Managers and Administrators appropriate accounting treatment.
and controls surrounding revenue processes and controls surrounding recognition and allocation of special Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee revenue recognition and allocation of dividends.
page 26, Accounting policy 1 page 40, special dividends and also performed a and Note 4 of the Financial Statements walkthrough to evaluate the design and We noted no issues in agreeing the page 42 effectiveness of controls: accounting treatment adopted with respect to special dividend receipts above our The investment income receivable by the Reviewed the income report and the testing threshold that we reviewed.
Company during the year directly affects acquisition and disposal report to the Companys ability to make a dividend identify special dividends greater than We noted no issues in agreeing the sample payment to shareholders.
our testing threshold set at 25% of our of dividend receipts to an independent revenue tolerable threshold received source, recalculating these amounts and The income receivable for the year to in the year.
We reviewed the treatment agreeing them to the bank statements.
31 December 2017 was 34.0 million, of all special dividends greater than our split between dividends from the listed We noted no issues in agreeing the sample testing threshold based on the underlying investments held 32.4 million and xedof investee Company announcements to motives and circumstances for the payment interest securities 1.6 million.
the income entitlements recorded by the and considered the treatment of the Company.
classi cation of these dividends as either Included within the dividend income gure revenue or capital that was adopted by the above were special dividends totalling We noted no issues in recalculating the directors: 0.6 million 2016: 1.6 million.
In addition accrued dividends, agreeing the rate to to these special dividends the Company Company announcements, agreeing, where Agreed a sample of dividends and interest received special dividends of 0.9 million possible, to post year end bank statements received from the income report to the 2016: 1.0 million which were recognised and con rming that the income obligation corresponding announcement made by within capital.
arose prior to 31 December 2017. the investee Company, recalculated the dividend and interest amount received and Given the manual and judgemental element We noted no issues in recalculating a agreed cash received to bank statements: in allocating special dividends between sample of effective interest rates on xed revenue and capital, we considered there to interest income securities.
Agreed a sample of dividends and be a fraud risk in accordance with Auditing interest paid on investments held from Standards in this area of our audit.
an independent source to the income recorded by the Company: Agreed 100% of accrued dividends and interest to an independent source to assess whether the dividend obligation arose prior to 31 December 2017.
We agreed the dividend and interest rate to corresponding announcements made by the investee company, recalculated the dividend and interest amount receivable and agreed cash received to post year end bank statements, where possible: and Recalculated a sample of effective interest rates on xed interest income securities and con rmed the accuracy of the interest income recognised in the year end.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 30 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and existence of the We performed the following procedures: We have no matters to communicate investment portfolio, including incorrect with respect to our assessment of the Obtained an understanding of the application of exchange rate movements Managers and Administrators processes Managers and the Administrators systems or failure to assess stock liquidity and controls surrounding the valuation and controls in relation to the valuation and appropriately.
and existence of the investment existence of the investment portfolio: portfolio.
Refer to the Report of Audit Committee Independently checked 100% of the page 26 : Accounting policy 1 page 41 : For all investments, we noted no investment prices in the portfolio and and Note 12 of the Financial Statements differences in market value or exchange exchange rates applied to an external page 45 rates when compared to an independent source: source in excess of our reporting threshold.
The valuation of the assets held in the In order to validate the appropriate investment portfolio is the key driver of the We noted no differences between the legal title is held for all investments in Companys investment return.
The value Custodian and Depositary con rmations the portfolio, we have independently of the Companys investment portfolio as and the Companys underlying financial obtained con rmation from the at 31 December 2017 was 1,035.7 million records.
Companys Custodian and Depositary of 2016: 973.4 million, consisting of the investments held as at 31 December We noted no issues with our review of listed equities of 898.7 million 2016: 2017 and agreed these to the underlying pricing exception and stale pricing reports.
894.2 million and xed income securities financial records: and of 137.0 million 2016: 79.2 million.
Reviewed pricing exception and stale Incorrect asset pricing or a failure pricing exception reports to highlight and to maintain proper legal title of the review a ny unexpected price movements in investments held by the Company could investments held as at the year end.
have an impact on the portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk pro le, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identi ed misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 9.36 million 2016: 8.80 million, which is 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
We believe that net assets are the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge the performance of the Company a nd, accordingly, consider this to be an appropriate metric to determine materiality.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 7.02 million 2016: 6.60 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage based on our understanding of the control environment that indicates a lower risk of material misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate tolerable threshold of 1.46 million for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, being 5% of pro t before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identi ed misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.47 million 2016: 0.44 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 31 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 31 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to speci cally address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 28 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 26 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 23 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions speci ed for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identi ed material misstatements in the strategic report or directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 28, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 32 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain suf cient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identi ed during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined that the most signi cant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We understood how the Company is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
We identi ed a fraud risk with respect to incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition relating to the recognition of special dividends.
Further discussion of our approach is set out in the section on key audit matters above.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed as auditors by the Board of Directors with effect from 1 January 2003 for the year ended 31 December 2003 and signed an engagement letter on 12 November 2003.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee Caroline Mercer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 20 February 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Temple Bar Investment Trust plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 33 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 33 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 L STATEMENTS CONTINUED TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
indd 34 22 02 2018 13:59 22 02 2018 13:59 STRATEGIC REPORT GO STVER RATN EG ANC IC R EE REPOR PORT T GO FVER INANC NANC IAL REPOR E REPOR TT SHAREHOL FINANC DER IAL INF REPOR ORMA T TION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT 36 Statement of Comprehensive Income 37 Statement of Changes in Equity 38 Statement of Financial Position 39 Statement of Cash Flows 40 Notes to the Financial Statements TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 35 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
