Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2017 Overview To the members of Ascential plc Materiality: group 2.7m 2016: 1.8m 1.
Our opinion is unmodified financial statements as a whole 4.6% 2016: 4.7% of profit benchmark We have audited the financial statements of Ascential plc the Coverage Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the 85% 2016: 90% of group revenue consolidated statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the 94% 2016: 85% of group profit before consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated tax from continuing operations statement of cash flows, the parent company statement of changes in Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 equity, the parent company statement of financial position and the related notes, including the parent and group accounting policies in Recurring risks Recognition of deferred tax assets notes 2 & 1 respectively.
in respect of losses Revenue recognition In our opinion: Recognition and valuation of Event driven the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the contingent consideration for One Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Click Retail, MediaLink and Clavis 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Parent company Recoverability of intercompany accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as recurring risk receivables adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 7 September 2010.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for two financial years ended 31 December 2017.
Prior to that we were auditor to the groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
69 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recognition of deferred Subjective estimate Our procedures included: tax assets in respect During 2016, the Group passed the Own tax expertise: With the assistance of our own tax specialists of losses threshold at which a change of control, we evaluated the Directors interpretation of key aspects of the tax legislation.
This included critically assessing the associated as defined by the US Tax code, occurs.
23.5m: As a result, the historic losses of the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the US tax groups 2016: 32.2m Groups US businesses will be subject to deferred tax assets.
a restriction on utilisation: based on the Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the competence and Refer to page 45 Audit valuation of the US tax group at the time objectivity of the external experts who prepared reports to support the associated assumptions underpinning the US tax groups deferred Committee Report, page the change of control occurred.
and page 96 financial The amount of this restriction will not be Data Comparison: We assessed the forecasts used within the disclosures.
known for certain until the tax filings in calculation with respect to management approved forecasts, cross respect of 2016 have been accepted by checking with forecasts used in impairment calculations and adjustments made for tax purposes.
the US Internal Revenue Service and this requires the Group to make an estimate Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of the related at the current year-end.
judgements and estimates disclosures provided in notes 2, 17 and 33 of the Group financial statements.
Our results: As a result of our work we found the level of deferred tax assets recognised and the estimates applied to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Revenue recognition The specific nature of the risk of material Our procedures included: misstatement in revenue recognition System based revenue recognition: For transactions where revenue 375.8m: varies across the Group.
recognition is automated within systems based on key attributes of 2016: 299.6m contracts entered by the Group our procedures included: Data capture and processing error: Data Comparison: We assessed the data inputs by agreeing a sample Refer to page 43 Audit Where the process for recognising of inputs to original source documents: revenue is system-automated, there are Control design and operation: We tested the controls around Committee Report, page 103 accounting policy additional risks that contract data is not integrity of the data held in the system and the completeness and and page 83 financial accurately captured and or processed in accuracy of the reports from the systems with assistance from our disclosures.
Expectation vs outcome: Having performed the above procedures 2017 2018 sales: over the data in the system, we used the data to calculate an In respect of the Exhibitions & Festivals expectation of the revenue in the period and compared this to the operating segment, customers are often actual revenue recorded by the Group.
billed in advance and the key risk in revenue recognition is that revenue from For all other revenue our procedures included: exhibitions and festivals is recognised in Tests of details: We performed substantive sampling on non system the wrong period, particularly for events based revenue recognition streams.
We obtained evidence of invoices, held close to year end.
payments, contracts and event occurrence to determine whether revenue was recognised at the appropriate time.
For a sample of In respect of the Information Services subscription transactions we obtained and reviewed relevant order operating segment, we identified the confirmations and contracts to assess whether revenue was risk that the deferral and release properly allocated across the term of the contract in the correct of subscription revenues did not accounting period.
appropriately match the underlying terms of customer contracts.
Our results: Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the design and operation of controls that would have required us to expand the extent of our planned detail testing.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we consider the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
70 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements The risk Our response Recognition and Accounting treatment Our procedures included: Accounting analysis: Having inspected the contracts, we evaluated valuation of contingent Judgement is required in determining consideration the split of the performance-related the groups application of the relevant accounting standards to the payments between acquisition terms of the contract with particular reference to the split between 97.9m: consideration and post-acquisition acquisition consideration and post-acquisition remuneration.
2016: 70.8m remuneration of the vendors who Assessing forecasts: We compared the forecast revenue and profit growth, used as the basis for contingent consideration calculation, continue to work for the Group.
Refer to page 45 Audit with the forecasts included in the due diligence reports obtained Committee Report, page Forecast-based valuation prior to the acquisition.
We challenged adjustments made to these 81 accounting policy The Group has recognised significant forecasts by the directors in reaching their final estimate of the value and page 99 financial contingent consideration liabilities in of the liability at the date of acquisition.
Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the competence and disclosures.
respect of One Click Retail, MediaLink and Clavis acquisitions.
There is inherent objectivity of the external experts who prepared the due diligence uncertainty involved in forecasting report, obtained by the directors prior to acquisition.
future performance of the acquired Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the groups businesses, which determines the value disclosures about the sensitivity of the fair value of contingent consideration to changes in key assumptions, in particular the of the liability.
estimates and judgements made by the Group in this regard.
Our results: As a result of our work we found the level of contingent consideration recognised and the disclosures made to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Recoverability of Low risk, high value Our procedures included: parents debt due from The carrying amount of the intra-group Test of details: Assessing 100% of group receivables to identify, with group entities receivables balance represents 92% of reference to the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet, whether they have a positive net asset value and therefore coverage of the the parent companys total assets.
Their 598.8 m: recoverability is not at a high risk of debt owed, as well as assessing whether subsidiaries have historically 2016: 594.6m significant misstatement or subject to been profit-making.
However, due to Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the audit work over the Refer page 113 their materiality in the context of the subsidiary, and considering the results of that work, on those net assets including assessing the liquidity of the assets and therefore the accounting policy and parent company financial statements, page 116 financial this is considered to be the area that had ability of the subsidiary to fund the repayment of the receivable.
the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our results: We found the groups assessment of the recoverability of the group receivables balance to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
71 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 3.
Our application of materiality and an Benchmark reconciliation m m overview of the scope of our audit Group profit loss before tax 33.1 1.8 Acquisition-related contingent employment Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at and capital costs 26.6 15.3 2.7m 2016: 1.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax normalised to exclude this years acquisition related Loss profit before tax from discontinued contingent employment and capital costs as disclosed in notes 22 and operations 0.4 5.3 22 respectively of 59.3m 2016: 38.4m, of which it represents 4.6% Pre-IPO finance costs 16.0 2016: 4.7%.
IPO costs 3.6 Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was Benchmark 59.3 38.4 set at 2.7m 2016: 1.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which it represents 1% 2016: 1% and capped at group materiality.
profit benchmark Group Materiality 59.3m 2016: 38.4m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or 2.7m 2016: 1.8m uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 135,000 2016: 90,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted 2.7m reporting on qualitative grounds.
Whole financial statements materiality Of the groups 74 2016: 69 reporting components, we subjected 7 2016: 1.8m 2016: 8 to audits for group purposes and 1 2016: 3 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually 2m significant but were included in the scope of our group audit work in Range of materiality at order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
8 components 0.5m 2m The group operates one shared service centre in India, the outputs of 2016: 0.7m 1.4m which are included in the financial information of the reporting components it services and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is subject to specified riskfocused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at certain profit benchmark reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the Group materiality 135,000 work performed over the shared service centres.
Misstatements reported to the audit committee The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 2016: 90,000 percentages illustrated opposite.
The remaining 15% 2016: 10% of total group revenue, 6% 2016: 15% Scoping and coverage of group profit before tax from continuing operations and 13% 2016: 15% of total group assets is represented by 66 2016: 58 reporting 10% components, none of which individually represented more than 4% 15% 6% 2016: 4% of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or 15% 9% 6% 3% total group assets.
For the residual components, we performed analysis 13% 15% at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there 7% 1% 1% were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
2017 2016 All audit work was performed by the group audit team.
Component Total Assests Total Assests materialities ranged from 0.5m to 2m 2016: 0.7m to 1.4m, having 86% 84% regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the PBTCO 88% PBT 78% components.
Revenue 82% Revenue 81% Full scope audit for group audit procedures specified risk-focused audit procedures Residual components 72 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance disclosures 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the statement that they consider that the annual report and financial use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: from the date of approval of the financial statements: or or if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 18 is the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven 5.
We have nothing to report on the other provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the information in the Annual Report Listing Rules for our review.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the We have nothing to report in these respects.
Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly 6.
We have nothing to report on the other stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
matters on which we are required to report Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, by exception consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the our opinion: financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Strategic report and directors report from branches not visited by us: or Based solely on our work on the other information: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report with the accounting records and returns: or and the directors report: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial not made: or year is consistent with the financial statements: and we have not received all the information and explanations we in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with require for our audit.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Directors Statement of Viability on page 23 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Directors Statement of Viability how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement of Viability.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
73 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the period ended 31 December 2017 7.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 68, the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in preparation of financial statements that are free from material an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
John Bennett Senior Statutory Auditor Auditors responsibilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Chartered Accountants financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 15 Canada Square whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to London issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high E14 5GL level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in 23 February 2018 accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery and employment law recognising the financial nature of the groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
