INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Travis Perkins plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
comprise the Group and Company Income Statements, the Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit Group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Cash the Audit Committee.
Flow Statements and the related notes, including the accounting We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on policies in note 2.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement In our opinion: is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain the financial statements give a true and fair view of the independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by thenended: that standard have been provided in the last three years.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Overview accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Materiality: 17m 2016:17m adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Group financial statements 5% 2016: 5% of Group the Parent Company financial statements have been properly as a whole profit before tax adjusted prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and for impairment of intangible as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies assets and exceptional items Act 2006: and as disclosed on the face of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance income statement with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Coverage 94% 2016: 96% of Group as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the profit before tax adjusted IASRegulation.
for impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items as disclosed on the face of the income statement Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Recoverability of Wickes and TileGiant goodwill and of the Parent Companys investment in Wickes and Tile Giant Recognition of supplier income and recoverability of respective receivables Valuation of inventory 90 Financial Statements 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarize below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of Wickes and Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Tile Giant goodwill and of the A worsening in the UK economy, Historical comparisons: Assessing the reasonableness Parent Companys investment in fall in consumer confidence, of the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of Wickes and Tile Giant the impact of cost price inflation or previous forecasts.
Goodwill: 707 million: being slow to respond to changes Our sector experience: Assessing whether assumptions 2016: 707 million in customer buying behaviours used, in particular those relating to forecast revenue impacted the performance of certain Refer to pages 58 to 63 Audit growth, profit margins and maintenance capital Group businesses in a manner that Committee Report, page expenditure, reflect our knowledge of the business and the related goodwill and investment 110 Critical judgements and industry, including known or probable changes in the balances could become impaired.
In key sources of estimation business environment.
particular, in the Consumer division, uncertainty and pages 125 to performance in the Wickes and Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging, using our 128 and 131 to 132 financial TileGiant businesses has been lower own valuation specialists, the key inputs used in the disclosures.
Theheadroom has Groups calculation of the discount rates by comparing decreased year-on-year and the them to externally derived data, including available value in use is sensitive to certain sources for comparable companies.
assumptions, such as discount rate, Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on forecast revenue growth, profit the key assumptions noted above.
margins and maintenance capital expenditure.
Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the impairment test The estimated recoverable amount appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the is subjective due to the inherent valuation of goodwill and investments in subsidiaries.
uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows.
Our results We found the resulting estimates of the recoverable amounts of Wickes and Tile Giant goodwill and of the Parent Companys investment in Wickes and Tile Giant to beacceptable.
91 The risk Our response Recognition of supplier income Subjective estimate Our procedures included: and recoverability of respective As a result of the wide range of Tests of details: Agreeing a statistical sample of the receivables products and suppliers to the Group, total amount of supplier income recorded in the year, Refer to pages 58 to 63 there are a significant number of including amounts outstanding at the year end, to cash Audit Committee Report, complex and varying purchase received or credit notes raised.
page 109 Critical judgements agreements within the businesses Historical comparisons: Assessing the success rate and key sources of estimation specifically involving fixed price of supplier income collection in previous periods for a uncertainty and pages 29 and 30 discounts, volume rebates and sample of balances outstanding at the date of signing financialdisclosures.
the audit report, including agreeing the calculation of the We consider the risk relates to the amount accrued to contractual agreements.
calculation of the income receivable, Third party confirmations: Comparing a sample including the recoverability of the of supplier receivable balances to the third party year end receivables from suppliers in confirmations and challenging managements respect of these agreements.
explanations of variances, if any.
The risk is driven by the complexity Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of of this calculation across the range the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation of products and divisions and the involved in the recognition of supplier income and estimation relating to the collection recoverability of respective receivables.
rate of this income, including recoverability of the amounts Our results outstanding at the year end.
We consider the amount of supplier income recognised and the recoverability of respective receivables to beacceptable.
Our procedures included: Valuation of inventory Complex calculation Accounting analysis: Evaluating the appropriateness 806 million: The impact of supplier rebate of the methodologies applied in determining product 2016: 768 million accounting as described in the cost and critically assessing the respective calculations supplier income recognition risk above including the allocation of rebates attributable to Refer to pages 58 to 63 Audit and complicated overhead allocation inventory at the year end as described in the supplier Committee Report, page 110 systems make inventory cost income recognition risk above.
Critical judgements and key accounting an area which had one sources of .
of the greatest effects on our audit Data analytics: Recalculating the inventory at year end and on the allocation of resources in from the full years product cost database including planning and completing our audit.
Tests of details: Recalculating product cost for a statistical sample of inventory balances, including comparing respective underlying data to the purchase documentation.
Our results As a result of our work, we consider the valuation of inventory to be acceptable.
In addition we continue to perform procedures over goodwill of groups of cash generating units as well as those identified in the Key Audit Matter above.
However, following stronger than anticipated performance during 2017, we have not assessed the recoverability of goodwill other than that allocated to Wickes and Tile Giant to be one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview Adjusted Group Group Materiality of the scope of our audit 17.0m 2016: 17.0m profit before tax 330.6m 2016: 364.7m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 17.0m set at 17 million 2016: 17 million, determined with reference Whole financial statements materiality to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation adjusted for 2016: 17.0m impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items as 9.1m disclosed on the face of the income statement Adjusted Group Range of materiality profit before tax of 330.6 million of which it represents 5.1% at 17 components 2016: 4.7%.
0.8m to 9.1m 2016: 1.0m to 12.8m Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 9.1 million 2016: 12.8 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which Adjusted Group PBT it represents 0.2% 2016: 0.3%.
0.5m Group materiality Identied misstatements We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or reported to the Audit uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million, Committee 2016: 0.5m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted adjusted for impairment of intangible assets and exceptional reporting on qualitative grounds.
items as disclosed on the face of the income statement Of the Groups 67 2016: 64 reporting components, we subjected 17 all UK based 2016: 17 all UK based to full scope audits for Group purposes.
Adjusted Group profit before tax Group revenue The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
The remaining 8% of total Group revenue, 6% of adjusted Group profit before tax and 13% of total Group assets is represented by 92% 94% 50 reporting components, none of which individually represented 2016: 93% 2016: 96% more than 4% of any of total Group revenue, adjusted Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For these residual 93 96 components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group 92 94 level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Group total assets The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
TheGroup audit team approved the component materialities, Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 which ranged from 0.8 million to 9.1 million, having regard 87% to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the 2016: 86% Residual components components.
The work on 2 of the 17 components 2016: 2 of the 86 17 components was performed by component auditors, and the 87 rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from adjusted Group profit before tax.
The Group audit team visited all 17 2016: 17 component locations subject to full scope audits to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report on going concern the disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and We are required to report to you if: the directors explanation in the viability assessment on we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation page 31 of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements over what period they have done so and why they considered on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial due over the period of their assessment, including any related statements: or disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on or assumptions.
page 87 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We have nothing to report on the other information Corporate governance disclosures in the Annual Report We are required to report to you if: The directors are responsible for the other information presented we have identified material inconsistencies between the in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our knowledge we acquired during our financial statements opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other audit and the directors statement that they consider that the information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance balanced and understandable and provides the information conclusion thereon.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in performance, business model and strategy: or doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements the section of the annual report describing the work of the audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the Strategic report and directors report eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Based solely on our work on the other information: specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic We have nothing to report in these respects.
report and the directors report: 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on in our opinion the information given in those reports for the which we are required to report by exception financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Directors remuneration report received from branches not visited by us: or In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the Parent Company financial statements and the part of be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Companies Act 2006. agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial are not made: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have not received all the information and explanations we attention to in relation to: require for our audit.
the directors confirmation within the viability assessment on We have nothing to report in these respects.
page 31 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: 94 Financial Statements 7.
Respective responsibilities In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety and employment law.
Directors responsibilities With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 87, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other statements including being satisfied that they give a true and management and inspection of regulatory and legal fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing procedures on the related annual accounts items.
the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease throughout the audit.
This included communication from the operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any Auditors responsibilities indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether directly identified by the component team.
the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs internal controls.
UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, we owe our responsibilities they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we website at www.
uk  might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Irregularities ability to detect purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements report, or for the opinions we have formed.
from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards and Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor inspection of minutes of the Groups Stay Safe Committee and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
Chartered Accountants We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect One Snowhill the financial statements including financial reporting including Snow Hill Queensway related company legislation, taxation and pension legislation.
Birmingham We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and B4 6GH regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual 27 February 2018 accounts items.
