The Weir Group PLC 120 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC Report on the audit of the financial Independence Overall Parent company materiality: statements We remained independent of the 1.5m 2016: 1.5m, based on an Opinion Group in accordance with the ethical allocation of Group materiality.
In our opinion: requirements that are relevant to our We conducted audit work in audit of the financial statements in the 20 components in 11 countries, The Weir Group PLCs Group financial UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical including six components in the UK.
statements and Parent company Standard, as applicable to listed public We conducted full scope audits on financial statements the financial interest entities, and we have fulfilled 10 of these components and the statements give a true and fair our other ethical responsibilities in audit of specified balances and view of the state of the Groups accordance with these requirements.
classes of transactions for the and of the Parent companys affairs remaining components.
as at 31December 2017 and of the To the best of our knowledge and The Group audit engagement team Groups profit and cash flows for belief, we declare that non-audit visited the United States, China and the year then ended: services prohibited by the FRCs Italy, covering four components.
the Group financial statements Ethical Standard were not provided In addition, members of the Group have been properly prepared in to the Group or the Parent company.
engagement team performed the accordance with IFRS as adopted audit of the six components based by the European Union: Other than those disclosed in note 4 in the UK.
the Parent company financial to the financial statements, we have The 20 components where we statements have been properly provided no non-audit services to the performed audit work accounted for prepared in accordance with United Group or the Parent company in the year approximately 84% of Group revenue Kingdom Generally Accepted from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. and 73% of profit before exceptional Accounting Practice United Kingdom items, intangibles amortisation and tax.
Accounting Standards, comprising Our audit approach Accounting for asbestos-related FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Context claims Group.
Framework, and applicable law : and The Group is organised into three Carrying value of goodwill and the financial statements have been operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas intangibles Group.
prepared in accordance with the and Flow Control, with each having Accounting for exceptional items requirements of the Companies businesses in a number of locations Group.
Act 2006 and, as regards the around the world.
Many of the businesses Valuation of uncertain tax provisions Group financial statements, are of similar size, so we scoped our audit Group.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to ensure we had appropriate coverage of the Group covering all three divisions.
We The scope of our audit We have audited the financial statements, included components which accounted As part of designing our audit, we included within the Annual Report and for the largest share of the Groups results determined materiality and assessed Financial Statements the Annual or where we considered there to be areas the risks of material misstatement in Report, which comprise: the of significant risk.
We also considered the financial statements.
In particular, consolidated and Parent company the markets in which the Group operates we looked at where the Directors made balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: when we performed our assessment of subjective judgements, for example the consolidated income statement and scope and areas of significant risk.
in respect of significant accounting statement of comprehensive income, estimates that involved making the consolidated cash flow statement, assumptions and considering future the consolidated and Parent company events that are inherently uncertain.
statements of changes in equity for Materiality the year then ended: and the notes We gained an understanding of the legal to the financial statements, which and regulatory framework applicable include a description of the significant to the Group and the industries in which accounting policies.
it operates, and considered the risk of Audit acts by the Group which were contrary scope Our opinion is consistent with our to applicable laws and regulations, including reporting to the Audit Committee.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component Basis for opinion level to respond to the risk, recognising Key audit We conducted our audit in accordance that the risk of not detecting a material matters with International Standards on Auditing misstatement due to fraud is higher than UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
the risk of not detecting one resulting Our responsibilities under ISAs UK from error, as fraud may involve deliberate are further described in the Auditors concealment by, for example, forgery responsibilities for the audit of the Overview or intentional misrepresentations, or financial statements section of our Overall Group materiality: 12.4m through collusion.
We focused on laws report.
We believe that the audit 2016: 8.5m, based on 5% of profit and regulations that could give rise to a evidence we have obtained is sufficient before exceptional items, intangibles material misstatement in the Group and and appropriate to provide a basis for amortisation and tax.
Parent company financial statements, our opinion.
including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 121 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 legislation, UK tax legislation and We did not identify any key audit matters whether or not due to fraud identified by equivalent local laws and regulations relating to irregularities, including fraud.
the auditors, including those which had applicable to significant component As in all of our audits, we also addressed the greatest effect on: the overall audit teams.
Our tests included, but were the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, strategy: the allocation of resources in not limited to, review of the financial and the risk of management override the audit: and directing the efforts of the statement disclosures to underlying of internal controls, including testing engagement team.
These matters, and supporting documentation, enquiries journals and evaluating whether there any comments we make on the results of of management, review of significant was evidence of bias by the Directors our procedures thereon, were addressed component auditors work and review that represented a risk of material in the context of our audit of the financial of internal audit reports in so far as misstatement due to fraud.
statements as a whole, and in forming our they related to the financial statements.
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a There are inherent limitations in the Key audit matters separate opinion on these matters.
This audit procedures described above and Key audit matters are those matters that, is not a complete list of all risks identified the further removed non-compliance in the auditors professional judgement, by our audit.
All key audit matters are with laws and regulations is from the were of most significance in the audit of relevant to the Group only.
None of them events and transactions reflected in the financial statements of the current apply to the parent Company.
the financial statements, the less likely year and include the most significant we would become aware of it.
assessed risks of material misstatement Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for  We have performed procedures on both the UK and US asbestos Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, liabilities.
The US provision is the more significant and uncertain and page131 Accounting Policies and page 162 note 22. therefore involved more judgement.
Provision has been made for future asbestosDuring the year, management obtained an updated actuarial estimate of related claims as at 31 December 2017 of 58.0m the asbestos liability from an independent expert.
This consists of a provision of actuarial specialists to assess the reasonableness of the methodology 53.3m 2016: 47.5m for the Groups liabilities used by managements expert.
arising from asbestos-related damages claims in the US and 4.7m in the UK 2016: 5.2m.
Management used the updated actuarial data to calculate the provision required at 31 December 2017.
We evaluated managements underlying The valuation of the liability involves significant assumptions used in their calculation.
This included testing of: estimation.
In arriving at the estimate of the liability, management is required to make the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations in assumptions including the number and value managements model: of claims and the time period over which the the input data to managements model, such as the average cost liability can be reliably measured.
per claim and the number of settled claims to source data which we verified directly with the Groups external lawyers: and As a result there is a high degree of uncertainty the reasonableness of forecast settlement numbers and amounts in this estimate.
to data provided by the Groups external actuarial experts.
The Group has insurance cover in place to offset We evaluated the appropriateness of managements assessment of the the US provision 53.3m included in other timescale over which a liability can be reliably measured, which remains receivables between non-current and current at ten years.
This was also considered in our work.
We also examined the insurance cover held by the Group and modelled the likelihood of the cover in place being sufficient to cover the period and amount of the estimated liabilities.
Finally, we tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Liabilities and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
We considered the assumptions used by management to be appropriate in arriving at a reliable estimate of the provision.
We also assessed the recognition of an offsetting insurance asset in the financial statements and considered it to be appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of goodwill andintangibles We performed detailed testing over managements Value in Use model Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, which included: page131 Accounting Policies and page 155 note 14. assessing the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the model: The Group has 869.5m 2016: 876.0m of utilising PwC valuations specialists to assess the key assumptions goodwill on the balance sheet.
We focused of growth rate and discount rate.
on this area because the assessment of the value in use of each Cash Generating Unit We also assessed the composition of CGUs, ensuring that these CGU involves judgement.
accurately reflect the structure and operations of the business and that the CGUs met the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The key assumptions in managements impairment model are the forecast results of the business, We assessed the headroom in each CGU, performing sensitivity long-term growth rates and discount rates applied analyses for each, focusing in particular on the Flow Control CGU to future cash flow forecasts.
where the headroom is lowest.
We tested the disclosures in the Financial Statements and checked compliance with IAS 36 and IAS 1.
The ongoing uncertainty in the Oil & Gas market and the loss recorded by the Flow Control division From the procedures performed, we did not identify any material could suggest a higher risk of impairment in the misstatements.
Accounting for exceptional items We obtained a listing of the exceptional costs and income incurred Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, by both component and category and tested a sample to supporting page131 Accounting Policies and page 144 note 5. documentation.
The Group incurred 13.3m 2016: 73.5m We checked the nature of the costs and income to assess whether they of exceptional charges in the year.
were treated appropriately and consistently as exceptional items within the income statement.
We checked the disclosures in the annual report The accurate presentation of costs and income relating to exceptional items.
as exceptional items was considered an area of focus for all reporting units.
This was to check We considered whether there were other significant costs or income the consistency and accuracy of the Groups which should have been included in exceptional items using our underlying earnings as reported to shareholders.
The Group commenced a significant restructuring We assessed the appropriateness of the classification of items as plan during 2015 and this continued in 2016 and exceptional for compliance with both the Groups accounting policy 2017.
Further, there were other non-recurring, and IAS 1. material items which were significant in nature and therefore required a higher level of focus.
We also verified that provisions made in the prior year were appropriately utilised during the year.
Finally, we checked the disclosure in note 5 for consistency with our understanding and for compliance with IAS 1.
From the audit work performed, we did not identify any material misstatements.
Valuation of uncertain tax provisions We read the Groups documentation of uncertain tax provisions and Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, tested the more significant provisions for appropriateness by: page131 Accounting Policies and page 164 note 23. confirming the basis of provision: The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions understanding the movements on the provision during the year: and and has a number of ongoing discussions reading correspondence with relevant tax authorities in the assessment and investigations with tax authorities where of managements calculation.
uncertain tax provisions and treatments may be challenged.
There is judgement in assessing This is an area which requires significant management judgement and the level of provisions required to cover the risk has a range of possible outcomes.
However, the evidence we obtained, of successful challenge over certain of the including our testing of assumptions, was materially consistent with the Groups tax provisions.
overall level of provisioning in respect of tax.
In addition, we assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosure of tax provisions for compliance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 123 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, the industries in which the Group operates and the areas of audit risk.
The Group is organised into three operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Flow Control with additional centralised Head Office functions.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a large number of components which make up the Groups operating businesses within these divisions and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components either by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
The Groups components vary significantly in size and we identified ten components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their relative size or risk characteristics.
Of these full scope component audits, six were UK based and were performed by members of the Group engagement team.
These covered trading components, central functions and head office managed balances including treasury, uncertain tax provisions, post-retirement benefits, goodwill and intangibles.
The remaining four full scope component audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
Other PwC network firms also performed specific scope audits over a further ten components which covered all line items on the income statement and specified line items on the balance sheet.
The scope of work at each component was determined by its contribution to the Groups overall financial performance or balance sheet and its risk profile.
Where component audits were performed by teams from other PwC network firms, members of the Group engagement team were involved in their work throughout the audit.
We maintained regular communication and conducted formal interim and year-end conference calls with all full and specific scope component teams.
The year end discussions also included divisional management.
Of the 20 components in scope, we deemed three to be financially significant to the Group.
We visited all three locations in the prior year and have commenced a rotational cycle of visits.
The Group engagement leader visited the significant component in the United States twice during the year.
Senior members of the Group engagement team also visited components in China and Italy.
Together these full and specific scope component audits gave appropriate coverage of all material balances at a Group level.
On a consolidated basis, these provided coverage of 84% of revenue and 73% of profit before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall 12.4m 2016: 8.5m.
materiality How we 5% of profit before exceptional items, intangibles An allocation of Group materiality.
determined it amortisation and tax.
Rationale for It is clear from the Annual Report that this profit An allocation of Group materiality.
benchmark measure is used by shareholders in evaluating applied the underlying business performance.
We applied a lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.4m and 9.0m.
We applied a specific lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6m Group audit 2016: 0.4m and 0.6m Parent company audit 2016: 0.4m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Weir Group PLC 124 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial attention to.
However, because not all future statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to events or conditions can be predicted, this adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties and Parent companys ability to continue as a to the Groups and the Parent companys ability to continue as a going going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 50 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 50 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 125 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 119, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 88 to 94 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 119, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 28 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the period ended 31 December 2016 and year to 31 December 2017.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 28 February 2018
