Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Admiral Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes 1 to 12 to the group financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 9 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
86 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves: and Revenue recognition profit commission income The key audit matters identified are the same as the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 20m which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax.
Scoping We identified seven reporting components which we determined should be subjected to audits for group reporting purposes this year 2016: five reporting components were subjected to full scope audits.
Further specific audit procedures were completed in respect of two further components which, although not financially significant, did present some specific audit risks which needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our audit procedures account for 93% of the groups profits and losses before tax 2016: 94%, 91% of revenue 2016: 87% and 91% of the groups net assets 2016: 95%.
Significant changes The main change in component scoping since 2016 is to subject the groups two underwriting divisions in Italy to full in our approach scope audits.
Whilst these divisions are not considered significant to the group as a whole in 2017, they do represent a significant portion of the groups European underwriting activity and therefore we have determined that treating them in this way is the most appropriate approach.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they add or draw attention to in considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their respect of these matters.
identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the add or draw attention to in knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of respect of these matters.
the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 33 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 33 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The key audit matters identified this year are in line with those identified in the 2016 audit.
Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves Key audit matter The groups gross insurance claims reserves total 2,403m 2016 year-end: 2,031m.
The judgements which are made by description management in determining the total valuation of incurred claims reserves, including those claims which are incurred but not reported IBNR are by far the most significant, in terms of their impact on the groups financial position.
Setting these claims reserves is an inherently subjective exercise and small changes in underlying assumptions such as average frequency or average severity may have a material impact on the overall year end result reported.
We therefore consider that this account balance contains potential fraud risks.
Specifically, our significant areas of focus are managements assumptions underpinning the modelled frequency and severity of large bodily injury claims arising in the UK Car Insurance business.
These particular claims result in higher individual claims reserves and are more judgemental, in terms of the development of the ultimate losses, due to the longer-term nature of the groups exposure compared to property damage claims.
In line with the group's accounting policy, management adds a margin to the actuarial best estimate to arrive at the booked gross claims reserves.
This margin reflects the inherent uncertainty in estimating the ultimate losses on claims, over and above that which can be projected actuarially based on underlying claims development data.
This is a significant area of management judgement and, therefore, a focus of our audit.
Specifically, the margin in the UK Car Insurance reserves, related to large bodily injury claims, is our key area of focus in respect of the margins included.
Refer to page 54 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue and note 5d and note 3 in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope of our We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls relating to audit responded to the key actuarial assumptions identified above and the setting of the reserve margin.
This included testing controls the key audit matter concerning management and Audit Committee challenge of the external actuarial experts work and the appropriate governance oversight in respect of the key assumptions and margins determined.
We reviewed the reports from managements external expert actuary and involved our own Deloitte actuarial experts to support our challenge of managements key assumptions.
We benchmarked assumptions relating to the severity and frequency of large bodily injury claims against available industry data and to peers where possible and appropriate.
We also completed procedures to specifically assess the competence and objectivity of managements expert in their role.
We challenged management's qualitative and quantitative justifications for the margin held over the actuarial best estimate through review of the accounting judgement papers produced, including involvement of Deloitte actuarial experts.
Further, we analysed its consistency with previous reporting periods and challenged management's justification for the booked margin in relation to the uncertainty in the ultimate claims reserves.
Where there was a movement in the perceived level of prudence in the booked reserves, or a change in methodology, we assessed this against the applicable accounting standard IFRS 4: Insurance Contracts.
Where there was a change in methodology, we assessed this against IFRS 4 and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Key observations Based on our procedures above, we consider the booked reserves remain appropriate and in line with the Groups prudent accounting policy.
88 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Revenue recognition profit commission income Key audit matter The auditing standards prescribe that a risk of fraud in revenue recognition should be presumed for all trading groups description and companies.
We therefore performed an assessment of the groups classes of revenue transactions to identify the areas where there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
In our view, the profit commission income earned by the group, which, on a consolidated basis, consists of amounts due from the groups co-insurer of 64.7m 2016: 54.3m, represents a revenue class for which there is an incentive to fraudulently overstate the amounts recorded.
Accordingly, we have determined that the accuracy of profit commission income due from the groups co-insurance arrangement includes elements which constitute a significant risk of material misstatement for the group financial statements and therefore identified this as a key audit matter.
The risk is particularly acute where there have been changes to the terms of the profit commission arrangements or other one-off adjustments which therefore mean that the calculation to be performed is not uniform across all underwriting years i. e. where the same underwriting result within two different periods could give rise to different levels of profit commissions for each because of variances in the applicable contracted terms.
The accuracy of the calculation in respect of these changes is the specific risk area which we determined represents a significant risk of misstatement.
Refer to page 54 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue, and note 5c and note 3 in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope of our We tested and were able to rely upon the key controls associated with changes in the calculation: which are controls audit responded to designed to ensure that the inputs to the calculation are accurate and the review by management which is performed to the key audit matter check that the requisite changes have been reflected in the detailed calculation.
Our substantive response constituted inspection of the applicable co-insurance contracts to evaluate the form and content of managements calculation and a substantive analytical review.
We developed an independent expectation of the commission income to recognise, based upon our understanding of the contracts and using the loss ratios audited as part of our insurance reserves testing, compared that to the output of managements calculation and then investigated any differences.
Key observations Based on our procedures above, we considered the profit commission to be appropriately calculated.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 20m 2016: 14m 3.8m 2016: 3.1m Basis for determining 5% of profit before tax 2016: 5% 3% of net assets 2016: 3% materiality Rationale for the We consider profit before tax to be the critical The parent company primarily exists as the holding benchmark applied benchmark of the performance of the group and consider company which carries investments in group subsidiaries this benchmark to be suitable having compared to other and is the issuer of listed securities.
We consider that net benchmarks: our materiality equates to 1% of gross assets is the critical benchmark for the company.
earned premium and 2% of equity 2016: 1% of gross earned premium and 2% of equity.
Group Materiality 20m Component materiality range 0.769.5m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m PBT 404m Group materiality We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Group performance materiality was set at 70% of group materiality for the 2017 audit 2016: 70%.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1m 2016: 700k for the group and 189k 2016: 155k for the parent company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
90 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information An overview of the scope of our audit The financially significant components of the group which were identified in our audit planning are the UK branches of Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited, Admiral Insurance Company Limited, EUI Limited and Inspop.
com Limited, and the Admiral Group plc parent entity itself.
In 2016, we also identified five significant reporting components.
Each of these components was subjected to a full-scope audit for group reporting purposes, completed to individual component materiality levels which ranged from 1.1m to 12.4m 2016: 660,000 to 11.8m, dependent upon the relative significance of each individual component.
The two further group components which were subject to full scope audit engagements this year were the Italian branches of Admiral Insurance Company Limited and Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited, each audited to a component materiality of 1.6m.
Combined, they contribute the majority of the European insurance segments results and represent 7% of the groups gross earned premium and 7% of the gross insurance reserves reported.
The change in scope since 2016 represents the growing significance of the Italian business to the groups global underwriting activities.
Additionally, we have completed specific audit procedures, designed to address specific audit risks, for Elephant Insurance Company, a subsidiary company incorporated in the USA, and the Spanish branch of Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Inspop USA LLC was included in the scope of our specified audit procedures in 2016 but not for the 2017 audit, as we determined that the subsidiary no longer presents any specific audit risks to the group financial statements.
Conversely, the Spanish branch of Admiral Insurance Company Limited was brought into the scope of these specified procedures for the first time in 2017, due to the specific audit risks which the branch presents to the underwriting subsidiary.
This change in scope also reflects the growing contribution of the groups insurance activities in Spain.
We engaged local component auditors, being Deloitte member firms in the USA, Italy and Spain, to perform the audit work and specified audit procedures in these respective territories on our behalf.
We directed and supervised the work of the component auditors, including through visits to the components and component auditors in Rome, Seville and Richmond and remote communication and review of their work.
For the remaining components, which were not subject to audit or specified audit procedures, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-assess our evaluation that there were no significant risks of material misstatement presented by any of these components.
The components within the scope of our audit procedures account for 93% of the groups profits and losses before tax, 92% of revenue and 92% of the groups net assets 2016: 94% of profits and losses before tax, 87% of revenue and 95% of net assets.
Revenue Profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope 83% Full audit scope 89% Full audit scope 88% Specified audit procedures 9% Specified audit procedures 4% Specified audit procedures 4% Review at group level 8% Review at group level 7% Review at group level 8% Profit before tax coverage is stated in absolute terms i. e. based on contribution to group profit less group loss Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing to the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
92 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors respect of these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 2 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Mark McQueen ACA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 February 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93
