Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and STATEMENTS Risk Committee.
Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion, Jupiter Fund Management plcs Group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements and Company financial statements the financial Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
statements : Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial ll give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash provide a basis for our opinion.
flows for the year then ended: Independence ll have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as We remained independent of the Group in accordance with adopted by the European Union and, as regards the the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and ll have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group with these requirements.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that We have audited the financial statements, included within the nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the Annual Report, which were not provided to the Group or the Company.
comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated income statement and Other than those disclosed in note 1.3 to the financial the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the statements we have provided no nonaudit services to the year ended 31 December 2017, the Consolidated and Company Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017. and the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our audit approach Context increasing distribution activities overseas, particularly in Jupiter Fund Management plc is a FTSE 250 active fund European and Asian markets.
Jupiter offers a range of manager, listed in 2010.
Jupiter has a significant presence in products such as Unit Trusts, SICAVs, Investment Trusts and the UK, covering both retail and institutional clients, and Segregated Mandates.
Overview Audit Key audit Materiality scope matters ll Overall Group materiality: 9.6m ll We conducted an audit of the complete ll Revenue recognition 2016: 8.6m, based on 5% of profit financial information of Jupiter Asset ll Share based payments expense before tax.
Management Limited and Jupiter Unit Trust ll Impairment of goodwill Managers Limited which are significant ll Overall Company materiality: 2.1m ll Current and deferred taxes components as each represent more than 2016: 1.8m, based on 1% of total 15% of the profit before tax of the Group.
ll We determined that there were no assets.
key audit matters applicable to the ll We also performed audit procedures on Company to communicate in our the Group consolidation adjustments report.
component and the financial statement disclosures.
ll Taken together, our audit work accounted for more than 95% of Group revenue and Group profit before tax.
ll The Company financial statements were also in scope for our audit.
138 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The scope of our audit procedures described above and the further removed non As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors we would become aware of it.
made subjective judgements, for example in respect of We did not identify any key audit matters relating to significant accounting estimates that involved making irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also assumptions and considering future events that are inherently addressed the risk of management override of internal uncertain.
controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which Key audit matters were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the of the financial statements of the current period and include risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, material misstatement in the Group and Company financial and any comments we make on the results of our procedures statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the 2006 and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our management and review of minutes of meetings of those audit.
charged with governance for the Group and significant components.
There are inherent limitations in the audit Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition We understood and evaluated the design and implementation Refer to Note 1.1.
Basis of preparation of key controls, including relevant Information Technology and other accounting policies.
systems and controls, in place around revenue.
This included outsourced activities at HSBC Security Services UK Limited Revenue is the most significant balance in the Consolidated HSBC, J. P Morgan Bank Luxembourg S. A JP Morgan, J. P income statement.
Revenue is made of a number of streams Morgan Chase Bank N. A JP Morgan and DST Financial including management fees, performance fees, initial charges Services International Limited DST.
and box profit which result from the business activities of the Group.
To obtain audit evidence over the key controls at the outsourced providers, we assessed the control environment in We focused on a number of aspects of revenue as follows: place to the extent that it was relevant to our audit.
This included controls supporting the calculation of revenue.
This Management fees involved obtaining and reading the reports issued by the Management fees consist of gross management fees from independent service auditor of the third party providers in Unit Trusts, SICAVs and Segregated Mandates Investment accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for Trusts, less rebates.
We then identified those key controls on which we The calculation of Unit Trust and SICAV gross management could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
Where the fees, which make up the majority of the revenue balance, is controls reports we relied on were not prepared as at calculated as a percentage of the assets under 31 December 2017, we obtained a bridging letter and assessed management AUM of the funds managed by the Group: the period not covered.
The revenue from Segregated Mandates Investment Trusts is We found that the key controls on which we placed reliance manually calculated as a percentage, per Investment for the purposes of our audit were designed, implemented Management Agreements IMAs, of the segregated and operating effectively.
mandates investment trust holdings: and Rebates are calculated by a combination of inhouse systems and external parties mandated by the Group to sell units shares of funds it manages, with the outputs of both processes being monitored and stored on spreadsheets which increases the risk of error.
139 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Performance fees In addition to identifying those key controls on which we Performance fees are often oneoff or infrequent and involve placed reliance, the specific audit evidence over each revenue stream is summarised below: manual and complex calculations and this increases the risk of error.
Unit Trust and SICAV gross management fees Initial charges and box profits We obtained AUM and management fee evidence directly from JP Morgan and HSBC.
We recalculated and then Initial charges vary per different client and contractual terms and the calculation of these fees are thus more susceptible reconciled management fees to amounts included in the Group financial statements: to the risk of error: and We reconciled a sample of management fee rates to Box profits vary from one transaction to another and are supporting documentation: and quite complex due to the various different terms and pricing We checked that the data received from the outsourced in place and as such there is an increased risk of error.
provider included all Jupiter funds.
Segregated Mandates Investment Trusts management fees HSBC are appointed as the administrator for Segregated Mandates unless the client specifies otherwise.
Investment Trusts are administered by JP Morgan.
For those in our testing sample not administered by HSBC or JP Morgan, we obtained supporting external evidence over AUM.
We recalculated the management fee calculation for a sample of invoices, agreeing a sample of the key inputs back to the IMA and compared to amounts included in the Group financial statements.
Rebates We used data auditing techniques on the underlying data to recalculate rebates.
We agreed a sample of rates to discount forms and reconciled the amounts back to the Group financial statements.
Performance fees For a sample of performance fees we assessed whether the fee had crystallised and hence had been recognised in the appropriate year: We recalculated the performance fees for that sample to check that it had been calculated in accordance with the signed IMAs: and To test for completeness we checked, for a sample of funds and segregated mandates, whether a performance fee had been earned in the year.
Initial charges and box profits We used data auditing techniques to recompute initial charges and box profits calculated by DST and reconciled the results back to the Group financial statements: and Agreed the rate and terms to the discount forms for a sample of clients paying initial charges.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing.
140 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Share based payments expense In testing the share based payment expense, we performed Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 1.5.
Share the following testing to address the risks identified for each type of share based payment transaction: based payments and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies.
Obtained the Deeds of Grant for new awards in the year.
The share based payment expense is judgemental in nature, Tested each of the new awards in the year by checking that they were appropriately authorised, consistent with scheme including management determining the fair value of the awards, which involves estimating performance, service plans, classified correctly as equity or cash settled and used an appropriate share price: conditions and leaver rates.
We also considered the interpretation of complex terms in the scheme agreements, the Tested the valuations and spreading of new schemes number of schemes in operation, the required record keeping granted in the year by agreeing key inputs used to source and the manual nature of the calculations.
documentation and independently recalculating the value of the award using an industry accepted pricing model: Obtained details of all other outstanding awards and tested a sample to check that the charge was spread in accordance with the appropriate period of the award: For cash settled parts of the awards, for example, national insurance, we tested a sample of calculated current charges for the year based on yearend share price information: We assessed the reasonableness of the key assumptions, leaver rate and performance conditions, by examining historical data and performing sensitivity analyses: Tested a sample of options exercised during the year to check they were exercised in accordance with the terms of the grant, recorded at the correct value and appropriately authorised: Tested the final trueup adjustments for all awards vesting in the year to check that the total expense recognised over the life of the award was appropriate: and Assessed whether disclosures required by IFRS 2 Share based payment had been made and appropriately reflected the scheme agreements and the calculations and estimates made.
Impairment of goodwill We obtained managements impairment review and checked Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 3.1. that it was in compliance with the requirements of IAS 36 and Goodwill and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other performed the following: accounting policies.
We evaluated managements models checking the relevant Goodwill is the most significant balance in the Consolidated inputs to supporting documentation, this included challenging balance sheet.
management on key assumptions within the calculations.
In particular we compared the cash flow forecasts to the 3 Management are required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets to year Board approved budget: perform an annual impairment review and consider if there We evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed and are any impairment indicators in respect of the carrying value discussed with management the likelihood and impacts of of goodwill.
such changes: We determined that there was reasonable headroom in The carrying value of the cash generating unit containing the managements fair value less costs to sell calculations: and goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the The Group is made of one operating segment, investment financial statements.
As such the Group is one cash generating unit.
Management have modelled the fair value less costs to sell approach under IAS 36 by using a discounted cash flow model.
As they have not identified any impairment they have not considered value in use.
The impairment review requires a number of significant estimates to be made by management such as forecasts and discount rates.
141 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In assessing current and deferred income tax, we: Current and deferred taxes Refer to Note 1.10.
Deferred tax Assessed whether management had reflected appropriately and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting the changes in UK corporation tax in their current and policies.
deferred income tax calculations: The calculation of the current and deferred tax is produced Obtained and read tax working papers for the Group and manually and is based on a number of supporting complex significant components and obtained supporting evidence: calculations including share based payments, deferred bonuses Obtained the deferred tax calculations and assessed the and the spreading of initial charges.
recoverability of the deferred tax assets.
We evaluated whether the temporary difference will reverse in the future The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of and whether there is sufficient taxable profit available the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance against which the temporary difference can be utilised: and sheet date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable items.
Management periodically evaluates Assessed the tax disclosures included within the financial statements.
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
We also evaluated whether the Group had met its compliance Management establish provisions where appropriate on the obligations for the material territories in which the Group basis of amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
operates, and as such we: Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences Assessed the conclusions reached by management in arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their relation to the current transfer pricing arrangements, carrying amounts in the financial statements.
changes to the Group structure and controlled foreign companies position.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
142 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we tailored the audit scope on the Group consolidation adjustments component and the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we financial statement disclosures.
Taken together, our audit work performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the accounted for more than 95% of Group revenue and Group financial statements as a whole, taking into account the profit before tax.
The Company financial statements were also structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting in scope for our audit.
processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Materiality The Group is structured along a single business line being The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of investment management.
The Group is composed of the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom, and subsidiary materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, entities in the United Kingdom and abroad, and certain helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, consolidated Jupiter funds.
The Group is operated centrally timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual from the UK.
financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate We conducted an audit of the complete financial information on the financial statements as a whole.
of Jupiter Asset Management Limited and Jupiter Unit Trust Limited because they are considered financially significant Based on our professional judgement, we determined components, each representing more than 15% of the profit materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: before tax of the Group.
We also performed audit procedures Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 9.6m 2016: 8.6m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax is the primary The Companys main activity is the holding applied measure used by the shareholders in assessing the of investments in subsidiaries.
Given this, performance of the Group, and is a generally consistent with the prior year, we set an accepted auditing benchmark.
overall Company materiality level based on total assets.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group report to them misstatements identified during our audit above materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across 0.5m Group audit 2016: 0.4m and 0.1m Company audit 2016: 0.1m as well as misstatements below those amounts components was 2.9m9.5m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
than our overall Group materiality.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows:.
Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in However, because not all future events or conditions can be the financial statements about whether the Directors predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
143 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION ll The Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report The other information comprises all of the information in the as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, Annual Report other than the financial statements and our over what period they have done so and why they consider auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise as they fall due over the period of their assessment, explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, We have nothing to report having performed a review of the consider whether the other information is materially Directors statement that they have carried out a robust inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the Group.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures only consisted of making inquiries and considering the to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that financial statements or a material misstatement of the other the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other considering whether the statements are consistent with the information, we are required to report that fact.
We have knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Other Code Provisions Companies Act 2006 have been included.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act ll The statement given by the Directors, on page 96, that they 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain balanced and understandable, and provides the information opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs necessary for the members to assess the Groups and UK unless otherwise stated.
Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Strategic Report and Directors Report Group and Company obtained in the course of performing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit.
the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and ll The section of the Annual Report on pages 5258 describing Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared appropriately address matters communicated by us to the in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and ll The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Directors Remuneration The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 regarding: ll The Directors confirmation on page 96 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
ll The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
144 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements Companies Act 2006 exception reporting As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are you if, in our opinion: responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in ll we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with the applicable framework and for being we require for our audit: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is ll adequate accounting records have not been kept by the necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud received from branches not visited by us: or or error.
ll certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are ll the Company financial statements and the part of the responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as agreement with the accounting records and returns.
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either We have no exceptions to report arising from this intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease responsibility.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Appointment Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial We were appointed by the Directors to audit the financial statements statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender whether the financial statements as a whole are free from process in 2014, we were reappointed as auditor of the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to Company by recommendation of the Audit and Risk issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015 and assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will engagement is 11 years, covering the years ended always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they JEREMY JENSEN SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR could reasonably be expected to influence the economic for and on behalf of  LLP decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
London 26 February 2018 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
145 146 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 148 Historical summary unaudited 149 Shareholder information 150 Glossary of terms OTHER INFORMATION 147 Other information HISTORICAL SUMMARY UNAUDITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Net revenue 409.5 351.4 329.5 303.0 288.5 Administrative expenses 214.8 182.1 163.8 149.2 142.1 Operating earnings 194.7 169.3 165.7 153.8 146.4 Other gains 0.6 5.1 1.7 26.1 9.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.3 3.3 3.2 20.2 39.7 Operating profit before exceptional costs 193.0 171.1 164.2 159.7 116.2 Exceptional items Operating profit 193.0 171.1 164.2 159.7 116.2 Finance income 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.5 1.0 Finance costs 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 3.1 Profit before taxation 192.9 171.4 164.6 160.0 114.1 Income tax expense 38.1 35.1 32.5 34.2 25.5 Profit for the year 154.8 136.3 132.1 125.8 88.6 Earnings per share Basic p share 34.5 30.3 29.4 28.4 21.1 Diluted p share 33.7 29.6 28.5 27.2 20.0 Dividends per share Interim p share 6.8 4.5 4.0 3.7 3.5 Final p share 10.3 10.2 10.6 9.5 9.1 Special p share 15.5 12.5 10.9 11.5 Total dividends paid out of current year profit 32.6 27.2 25.5 24.7 12.6 AUM at year end bn 50.2 40.5 35.7 31.9 31.7 Average headcount number 504 463 436 459 455 Operating earnings to adjusted EBITDA reconciliation Operating earnings 194.7 169.3 165.7 153.8 146.4 Add: charge for options over preListing shares 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.7 4.2 Add: depreciation 2.1 2.2 1.1 1.1 0.9 Add: office closure costs 0.8 Adjusted EBITDA 197.0 171.6 168.1 155.6 151.5 Net cash m 234.2 258.9 259.4 251.0 160.8 Net cash inflows from operating activities m 194.6 147.3 156.3 122.8 123.4 Underlying earnings per share p 34.2 29.4 29.2 26.4 25.2 148 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES All enquiries relating to holdings of shares in Jupiter Fund Management plc, including notification of change of address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss of a share certificate, should be addressed to the Companys Registrars: Link Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 12p per minute plus access charge Overseas tel: 44 0 371 664 0300 Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open UK only 9.00am5.30pm Monday to Friday.
co. uk Other shareholder queries should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE There is a share dealing service offered by the Registrars.
It is a simple way to buy and sell shares via the internet or telephone with quick settlement.
com For telephone purchases: Tel: 0371 664 0445 lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
UK calls are charged at the standard geographic rate.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Event Date Exdividend date for fullyear and special dividends 8 March 2018 Record date for fullyear and special dividends 9 March 2018 Fullyear dividend payment date 6 April 2018 Trading update 18 April 2018 Annual General Meeting 16 May 2018 Interim results announcement 27 July 2018 Interim dividend payment date 31 August 2018 Trading update 11 October 2018 COMPANY DETAILS AND Jupiter Fund Management plc PRINCIPAL OFFICE The Zig Zag Building 70 Victoria Street London SW1E 6SQ Registered number: 6150195 Company Secretary Adam Westley Tel: 020 3817 1169 WEBSITE The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst other information, copies of its latest annual report and copies of all press announcements released.
This site can be found at www.
com SHARE INFORMATION The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange: ISIN GB00B53P2009 SEDOL B53P200 TICKER JUP.
LN 149 Other information GLOSSARY OF TERMS A C G Act CASS GAAP Companies Act 2006 The FCAs Client Asset Sourcebook rules Generally Accepted Accounting Principles as amended, supplemented or replaced CGU GDPR from time to time Cashgenerating unit General Data Provision Regulation Adjusted available profit Code Available profit less computer software GHG UK Corporate Governance Code amortisation Greenhouse gas: an EU regulation for adopted by the Financial Reporting strengthening and unifying data Adjusted cost income ratio Council in 2016 protection Administrative expenses divided by net Company management fees GRI Jupiter Fund Management plc Global Reporting Initiative Adjusted EBITDA CREST Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Group The system for paperless settlement of and amortisation and nonrecurring The Company and all of its subsidiaries trades in listed securities, of which items Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the I AGM operator Annual General Meeting IA D Investment Association AUM Assets under management DBP IAS Deferred Bonus Plan International Accounting Standard s Available profit Net revenue less operating expenses DST ICAAP DST Financial Services formerly IFDS Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment B Process E Board IFA The Board of Directors of the Company Independent financial adviser EBT The Jupiter employee benefit trust Box profits IFDS established pursuant to a trust deed Profit on dealings in mutual funds by the International Financial Data Services dated 22 April 2004 Group representing the difference IFRS between the cost of purchasing EPS International Financial Reporting redeemed units at cancellation prices Earnings per share Standard s and reselling those units at higher creation prices on the same day rather EU IFRS IC than cancelling those units, in each case The European Union IFRS Interpretations Committee after brokerage fees ISA Bps F Individual savings account One onehundredth of a percentage point 0.01% FCA J Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom Jupiter FCA Remuneration Code The Company and all of its subsidiaries The code whereby firms regulated by the FCA are required to establish, implement K and maintain remuneration policies consistent with effective risk management KPI Key performance indicator FRC Financial Reporting Council FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss 150 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 L O T LIBOR Operating earnings TCF London Interbank Offered Rate Net revenue less administrative expenses Treating customers fairly Listing Total compensation ratio Operating expenses The Companys Listing on the London Total staff costs as a proportion of net Underlying administrative expenses less Stock Exchange on 21 June 2010 revenue variable staff costs Listing Rules Ordinary dividends per share U Regulations subject to the oversight of Interim and fullyear dividends does not the FCA applicable to the Company include any special dividends UCITS following Listing Undertaking for Collective Investment in Overseas Regulated Entities Transferable Securities as defined by EC LTIP Jupiter Asset Management Hong Kong Council Directive 85 611 EEC, as Longterm Incentive Plan for retention Limited amended Jupiter Asset Management Switzerland AG M Underlying administrative expenses Administrative expenses excluding P MBO nonrecurring items The purchase by management and other PBT parties in 2007 of the Group as at that Underlying EPS Profit before tax date Underlying profit after tax divided by issued share capital Platforms MiFID II Service providers that enable investors to The second version of the Markets in Underlying profit before tax buy and hold in a single place a range Financial Instruments Directive as defined Profit before tax excluding amortisation of investments from multiple providers by EC Council Directive 2014 65 EU arising from acquisitions and non with different tax wrappers recurring items Mutual funds Collective investments where a group of R V investors pool their money buying units or a portion of the mutual fund RCF Variable compensation ratio Revolving credit facility Variable staff costs as a proportion of N available profit Registrar Link Asset Services Net cash W Net cash is defined as the gross cash S less any bank debt outstanding and WAEP overdrafts Weighted average exercise price SAYE Net management fees Save As You Earn Management fees less fee expenses SEDOL Net management fee margin Stock Exchange Daily Official List Net management fees divided by average AUM Segregated mandates An investment strategy run exclusively for Net revenue institutional clients Revenue less fee and commission expenses SICAV Socit dInvestissement Capital Variable: an openended collective investment scheme offered in Europe SIP Share Incentive Plan SMCR Senior Managers and Certification Regime: an FCA regime governing the regulation of senior employees of entities operating in the financial services industry in the UK 151 152 JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Registered address: The Zig Zag Building, 70 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6SQ www.
com ACTIVE FUND MANAGEMENT ACTIVE FUND MANAGEMENT On the planet to perform On the planet to perform JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC JUPITER FUND MANAGEMENT PLC On the planet to perform On the planet to perform JUPITERONLINE.
COM On the planet to perform On the planet to perform
