JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of James Fisher and Sons plc We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 30 June 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the We have audited the financial statements of James Fisher 10 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled and Sons plc the Company for the year ended 31 December our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public Income, the Consolidated and Company Statement of interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that Financial Position, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow standard were provided.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks notes, including the accounting policies in note 31. of material misstatement In our opinion: Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect year then ended: on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the the Group financial statements have been properly audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We prepared in accordance with International Financial summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, IFRSs as adopted by the EU : together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results the Parent Company financial statements have been from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion the financial statements have been prepared in thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Revenue from construction contracts 81.7m Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2016: 91.5m, Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 103 Basis for opinion accounting policy and page 72 financial disclosures.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International The risk: Complex accounting Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe The contractual arrangements that underpin the measurement that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and recognition of revenue by the Group can be complex, and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is with significant judgements involved in the assessment of consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
current and future financial performance.
In particular, where 58 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 services rendered are provided through long-term contracts Company balance sheet respectively, and their recoverability and are not completed at the balance sheet date and output is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in measures cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised forecasting and discounting future cash flows.
in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction This is considered to be one of the areas that had the greatest measured by reference to either an output measure, such as effect on our overall Group and Parent Company audits due deliverables completed or an input measure, such as physical to their materiality in the context of the Group and Parent progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured Company financial statements and due to the inherent against the expected outcome.
The stage of completion is significant judgements involved in the impairment test.
estimated by the Group and includes certain judgements as Our response: Our audit procedures included: contracts may run over a number of accounting periods and include forecasts in relation to future costs including labour 1.
Historical comparisons: assessing the reasonableness and materials which are not yet known.
of the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of Our response: Our audit procedures included: previous forecasts.
Our sector experience: assessing whether assumptions 1.
Methodology choice: assessing whether the revenue used, in particular those relating to forecast revenue recognition methodology applied was consistent with growth, profit margins and maintenance capital accounting standards.
expenditure, reflect our knowledge of the business and 2.
Sampling: selecting the contracts for substantive industry, including known or probable changes in the audit procedures based on qualitative factors, such business environment.
as commercial complexity and life of contract, and 3.
Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the key inputs quantitative factors, such as financial significance and used in the impairment test, in particular discount rates, profitability that we considered to be indicative of risk.
by comparing them to externally derived data, including 3.
Input assessment: agreeing, for the sample above, available sources for comparable companies.
observable inputs used in the calculations of costs incurred, such as direct costs, labour charges and 4.
Sensitivity analysis: performing breakeven analysis on document delivery records to source data, including the key assumptions noted above.
customer acceptance acts and countersigned 5.
Accounting analysis: challenging the Groups agreements, including testing the allocation of costs assessment of the recoverability of capitalised incurred to contracts.
development costs by assessing the technical feasibility and future profitability of the related assets, including 4.
Accounting analysis: assessing, for the sample above, comparing the managements judgements to our whether the judgements made by management over the understanding of project progress and performance to stage of completion and estimates over cost to complete, date obtained from our other audit procedures.
including specific output measures and costs incurred, are consistent with our understanding of contract activities and 6.
Assessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups performance, including considering contract losses and disclosures about the impairment test appropriately recoverability of revenue relating to variation orders in light reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of intangible of managements historical experience on similar contracts.
assets and investments in subsidiaries.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness Our results: We found the resulting estimate of the of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue from recoverable amount of Group intangible assets and Parent construction contracts.
Company investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Our results: We found revenue recognition from construction Group operations in overseas jurisdictions with contracts acceptable 2016: acceptable.
uncertain legislation, Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 62 Recoverability of Group intangible assets, 199.2m accounting policies and page 105 financial disclosures.
2016: 180.5m and Parent Company investment in subsidiaries, 409.2m 2016: 363.0m 2016: Risk vs 2016: The risk: Omitted exposures Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 101 The Group is multinational and has operations in a number accounting policy and page 76 financial disclosures.
Operating in these territories presents The risk: Forecast based valuation increased operational and financial risks due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain regulatory and legislative Goodwill and intangible assets in the Group and Parent environments, including legislation relating to tax.
Breaches Company investment in subsidiaries are the most of compliance or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning quantitatively significant items on the Group and Parent 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED for the uncertain legislation could have a significant effect acquisition accounting based on an estimated outturn of the on the results and financial position of the Group and is one future performance of the business.
As there is a significant of the judgemental areas our audit is focused on.
Further, level of judgement involved in estimating the fair value of during 2015 the principal customer of one of the Groups acquired intangible assets and contingent consideration, we overseas subsidiaries terminated its contract, whilst settlement consider this to be a significant audit risk.
was reached in 2017 with the customer, uncertainty remains Our response: Our audit procedures included: around the timing and value of any potential residual 1.
Methodology choice: assessing, using our own valuation exposures with the local authorities.
specialist, the results of the intangible asset valuation Our response: Our audit procedures included: reports by checking that the valuations were in accordance 1.
Inspection: considering the Groups exposure to potential with relevant accounting standards and acceptable breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry valuation practice.
of the Group in relation to compliance with laws and 2.
Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the key inputs regulations and the existence and status of any significant used in determining the valuation of intangible assets legal matters.
We inspected reports returned by overseas acquired, in particular, discount rates and comparable locations to identify actual and potential non-compliance market transactions, by comparing them to externally with laws and regulations, both those specific to the derived data.
Groups business and those relating to the conduct of the 3.
Our sector experience: assessing whether the business generally.
Where significant or potential matters assumptions used in calculating contingent consideration, were identified we obtained confirmations from the Groups in particular those relating to forecast revenue growth, legal counsel and legal representatives.
contract performance and profit margins, reflect our 2.
Input assessment: critically assessing the calculation knowledge of the business and industry, including of provisions and liabilities arising from any legal matters assessing the results of the businesses since acquisition recognised by the Group by challenging management and historical accuracy of the previous forecasts.
assumptions based on our knowledge and review of 4.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness underlying correspondence and documentation, including of the Groups disclosures in respect of fair value formal confirmations and discussions with external and measurement of acquired net assets and contingent own lawyers, where relevant.
Sector experience: using our own local specialists Our results: We found the valuation of the acquired analysing and challenging the assumptions used to businesses and contingent consideration to be acceptable determine provisions for tax matters based on their 2016: acceptable.
knowledge and experience of local regulations and practices.
3 Our application of materiality and an 4.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness overview of the scope of our audit of the Groups disclosures in respect of provisions, The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole including taxation, recognised and contingencies was set at 2.2m 2016: 2.1m, determined with reference disclosed.
to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 49.0m 2016: Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory and 44.9m, of which it represents 4.5% 2016: 4.7%.
we considered the liability recognized, and the contingency The materiality for the Parent Company financial statements disclosures made, to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
as a whole was set at 0.7m 2016: 1.5m, determined with Valuation of the intangibles acquired in a business reference to a benchmark of gross assets of 438.5m 2016: combination, 9.8m 2016: 0.5m and contingent 360.7m, of which it represents 0.2% 2016: 0.42%.
consideration, 12.8m 2016: 6.8m Risk vs 2016: We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 101 uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.1m 2016: accounting policies and page 87 financial disclosures 0.1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that The risk: Subjective valuation warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group acquired new businesses during the year on a Of the Groups 188 2016: 140 reporting components, consideration partly contingent on the future performance we subjected 34 2016: 40 to full scope audits for Group of the acquired businesses.
The Group also has contingent purposes.
considerations payable on acquisitions in the past, which are re-measured at the end of each year under the provisional 60 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at a further 12 2016: 6 non-significant components to obtain further coverage.
These components were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number of Group Group Group components revenue profit before tax total assets Audits for Group reporting purposes 36 2016: 40 86% 2016: 91% 77% 2016: 85% 84% 2016: 86% Reviews of financial information including enquiry 12 2016: 6 4% 2016: 3% 9% 2016: 6% 6% 2016: 2% Total 48 2016: 46 90% 2016: 94% 86% 2016: 91% 90% 2016: 88% The remaining 10% of total Group revenue, 14% of Group 5 We have nothing to report on the other profit before tax and 11% of total Group assets is represented information in the Annual Report by 142 of reporting components, none of which individually The Directors are responsible for the other information represented more than 10% of any of total Group revenue, presented in the Annual Report together with the financial Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
Our opinion on the financial statements does residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, significant risks of material misstatement within these.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
audit work, the information therein is materially misstated The Group audit team approved the component materialities, or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit which ranged from 0.1m to 1.0m 2016: 0.1m to 0.5m, knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group material misstatements in the other information.
The work on 15 2016: 22 of the 48 2016: 46 components was performed by component Strategic report and Directors report auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group audit team.
Based solely on our work on the other information: Telephone conferences were held with these component we have not identified material misstatements in the auditors at the locations which were not audited directly by the Strategic report and the Directors report: Group audit team.
At these conferences, the findings reported in our opinion the information given in those reports for the to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and financial year is consistent with the financial statements: any further work required by the Group audit team was then and performed by the component auditor.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in 4 We have nothing to report on going concern accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors going concern statement on page 56 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 56 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration report 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to exception be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term adequate accounting records have not been kept by the viability Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial not been received from branches not visited by us: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on agreement with the accounting records and returns: or page 56 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by would threaten its business model, future performance, law are not made: or solvency and liquidity: we have not received all the information and explanations the Principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing we require for our audit.
these risks and explaining how they are being managed We have nothing to report in these respects.
and mitigated: and 7 Respective responsibilities the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over Directors responsibilities what period they have done so and why they considered As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 57, that period to be appropriate, and their statement as the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a Group will be able to continue in operation and meet true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements assessment, including any related disclosures drawing that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Corporate governance disclosures Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have We are required to report to you if: no realistic alternative but to do so.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Auditors responsibilities audit and the Directors statement that they consider that Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about the annual report and financial statements taken as a whether the financial statements as a whole are free from whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other the information necessary for shareholders to assess the irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in Groups position and performance, business model and an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of strategy: or assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be We are required to report to you if the Corporate governance expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken statement does not properly disclose a departure from the on the basis of the financial statements.
eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
62 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Irregularities ability to detect 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom We identified areas of laws and regulations that could we owe our responsibilities reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the This report is made solely to the Companys members, financial statements from our sector experience, through as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the discussion with the Directors and other management as Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the so that we might state to the Companys members those Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by affect the financial statements including financial reporting law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
other than the Company and the Companys members, as a We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual have formed.
Mike Barradell Senior Statutory Auditor In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, Chartered Accountants employment law, legislation in overseas territories and certain 1 St Peters Square aspects of company legislation recognising the nature of the Manchester Groups activities and its legal form.
With the exception of M2 3AE any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
Further detail in respect of Group operations in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
