98 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach Opinion Overview In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: 17.0m 2016: 17.0m, based on 5% of Meggitt PLCs Group financial statements and Company underlying profit before tax.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs Overall Company materiality: as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows 35.0m 2016: 31.0m, based on for the year then ended: 1% of total assets.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We identified 11 reporting units accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: which, in our view, required a full scope audit based on their size the Company financial statements have been properly prepared or risk.
In addition we determined in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted that specified audit procedures Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, were required at a further 6 comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and reporting units to address specific applicable law : and risk characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group coverage the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of particular financial statement the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards line items.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We used component teams We have audited the financial statements, included within the in 4 countries to perform a Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the Annual Report, which combination of full scope audits comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as Materiality and specified procedures at 11 at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated income statement reporting units, with the Group and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the team performing the remainder.
Consolidated cash flow statement: and the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then The Group consolidation, ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a Audit scope financial statement disclosures description of the significant accounting policies.
and a number of complex items, prepared by the head office Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
finance function, were audited by the Group engagement team.
Key audit Basis for opinion matters We conducted our audit in accordance with International Reporting units where we Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
performed audit procedures Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the accounted for 61% of Group Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements profit before tax: 61% of Group section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have underlying profit before tax: and obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 82% of Group total assets.
audit scope provided sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a Independence basis for our opinion on the Group We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the financial statements as a whole.
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Goodwill impairment assessments statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, Group.
as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Development costs and requirements.
programme participation costs impairment assessments Group.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided Environmental provisions Group.
to the Group or the Company.
Provisions for uncertain tax Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee report, we have positions Group.
provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Group and Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 99 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The scope of our audit Key audit matters As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made the financial statements of the current period and include the most subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these audit procedures at Group and significant component level to matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant components auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
100 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment assessments We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process Refer also to note 18 of the consolidated financial by which they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying statements pages 131 to 132. discounted cash flow model.
We compared the forecasts used in this model to the plan and assessed the actual performance in the year against the prior The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill year budgets to evaluate historical forecasting accuracy.
1,947.0m on the balance sheet which is supported by an annual impairment review.
No impairment charge has In respect of the CGUs on which we focused our additional audit procedures been recorded against goodwill in the current year.
on, we assessed the directors assumptions for future cash flow growth in the plan, by: Our audit focused on the risk that the carrying value of goodwill could be overstated.
Obtaining corroborating evidence to support growth assumptions in excess of our assumed weighted average market growth rate.
We found that the Certain assumptions used in the impairment review are assumptions used by the directors were supported by the evidence we subjective and require estimates to be made to calculate obtained: and the recoverable amount, determined by value in use, of Performing sensitivity analysis in respect of the key assumptions to cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs.
The ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions which, either key estimates and assumptions assessed include: individually or collectively, would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
We noted that it would require significant downside changes The future cash flow growth assumptions used in the before a material impairment would be required and having assessed the Groups most recent budgets and plans for the next likelihood of these changes in assumptions arising we concluded that these five years approved by management the plan : were not considered to be reasonably possible.
The growth rate used beyond the period covered by For all impairment assessments we: the plan: and the discount rate applied to future cash flows.
Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We We applied the following scoping criteria to identify engaged our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and those CGUs or groups of CGUs requiring additional audit observed these to be within our expected range: procedures: Considered the use of the long-term GDP growth rates for the countries CGUs or groups of CGUs that indicated a shortfall in which the CGU operates and observed these to be within our expected in value in use compared to total CGU or groups of range: and CGUs carrying value when, for the period covered Assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which key by the plan, the level of underlying profit growth was assumptions would need to change for the recoverable amount to fall capped at a weighted average market growth rate, below the carrying value of goodwill, in particular in relation to those CGUs using economic and industry forecasts.
The weighted or group of CGUs with the lowest percentage headroom.
We determined average market growth rates were derived as follows: that these disclosures appropriately draw attention to the significant areas For CGUs operating predominantly in the civil of estimate and judgement.
aerospace market, the civil aerospace capacity long-term trend rate measured in available seat kilometres ASKs : and For CGUs operating predominantly in the military, energy and other markets, territory Gross Domestic Product GDP growth projections, based on published economic projections.
This identified the following CGUs or groups of CGUs for further consideration: EDAC and Advanced Composites.
This CGU has goodwill of 226.7m: and One CGU within Other.
This CGU has goodwill of 15.9m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Development costs and programme participation We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process costs impairment assessments by which they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying Refer also to note 19 of the consolidated financial discounted cash flow model.
In respect of the programme impairment statements page 133. assessments tested we: The Group holds significant amounts of development Agreed the fleet forecast data up to 2032 used in calculating the costs 482.3m and programme participation costs programme forecast cash flow to third party fleet forecast data, taking 332.1m on the balance sheet.
These intangible assets into account the extent to which the Group has a sole-source position.
are subject to impairment testing at the individual We corroborated any significant deviations applied by the directors to asset programme level, at least annually and, where supporting evidence.
We assessed fleet forecasts used beyond the period the programme value in use headroom compared to covered by the external market forecasts, considering average aircraft lives its carrying value is limited, or if events or changes in and trend analysis and considered them to be supported by the evidence circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be we obtained: recoverable, more frequently.
An impairment charge Agreed the sales price per part to customer contracts and did not identify of 56.8m has been recorded against these balances any material exceptions in these tests: in the current year.
This includes 55.9m which has been charged to exceptional operating items following Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to Dassault Aviations Dassault announcement in externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We December 2017 cancelling the Dassault Falcon 5X used our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and Falcon 5X programme.
observed them to be within our expected range: and Our audit focused on the risk that the carrying value of Assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which key these intangible assets could be overstated.
Specifically assumptions would need to change for the recoverable amount to fall in respect of the Falcon 5X programme we considered below the programme carrying values, in particular in relation to those whether it was appropriate to impair the capitalised with a significant carrying value.
We determined that these disclosures development costs and programme participation costs appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of estimate.
Specifically in respect of the Falcon 5X programme we performed the We focused our audit procedures on those programmes following audit procedures: against which the directors have recorded an impairment provision, those with limited excess of value in use over Obtained and considered a report from management describing their carrying value and those with a significant carrying value.
impairment test performed, focusing on those areas of the report covering the contractual position with the customer, the extent to which any costs The key estimates and assumptions assessed were: capitalised prior to cancellation related to technologies which potentially were transferrable to a successor aircraft and the level of rework that The estimated aircraft or engine volumes fleet would be expected to be required: forecasts and the period over which future cash flows are forecast fleet lives : Obtained the original contract with Dassault and assessed the contractual position with the customer, specifically reviewing programme termination The sales price per part: and cancellation clauses: and The discount rate applied to future cash flows.
Considered the extent of third party fleet forecast data for the successor aircraft for which there remains a significant level of uncertainty.
Based on the evidence obtained, we concurred that the level of uncertainty was so significant that it was not possible to reliably estimate the extent to which any of the costs previously capitalised would be recoverable, and therefore it was appropriate to record a full impairment loss against all balances on the programme.
We also assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the critical accounting estimates and assumptions in calculating the extent of the impairment recorded.
We determined that these disclosures appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of estimate and uncertainty.
102 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Environmental provisions Our work on the valuation of environmental liabilities comprised the following: Refer also to note 33 of the consolidated financial statements page 144.
We confirmed that the Groups external environmental consultants have sufficient expertise and are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate The Group has liabilities of 99.9m relating to industry bodies in the respective local territory, and are independent of the environmental matters.
Group: The environmental matters primarily relate to known We obtained the cost estimates and reports prepared by the Groups exposures arising from environmental investigation external environmental consultants for the most significant sites.
We and remediation of certain sites in the US for which the assessed the consistency of the cost estimates year on year and the level Group has been identified as a potentially responsible of costs incurred compared to the prior year estimates to assess the party under US law.
The liabilities are based on subjective historical accuracy of the estimates and to understand significant changes estimates of the level and timing of remediation costs, to the scope of remediation plans.
We confirmed that the changes in scope including the period of operating and monitoring have been appropriately reflected in the provision: activities required.
Our audit focused on the risk that We reconciled the cost estimates and reports to the provision recorded the provisions in relation to these matters could be and gained an understanding of all significant adjustments applied, such understated.
as differences in the period over which operating and monitoring activities are conducted and the application of additional provisions for incremental The Group has separately recognised insurance costs.
We assessed the reasonableness of these, including reviewing and other receivables of 64.1m.
We focused on the historical data where appropriate and considered the provision to be required asset recognition criteria being met and the supported by reasonable assumptions: and recoverability of these receivables.
Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities, related assets and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Our work on the valuation of insurance and other receivables comprised the following: We obtained the insurance policies and confirmed the coverage limits: We obtained confirmation from the insurer of the claims and settlements to date and assessed the extent of insurance coverage against the known exposures: We obtained evidence of the settlements and claims which resulted in the recognition of receivables in relation to the environmental provision and found that the evidence obtained supported asset recognition: We also obtained evidence of the insurers financial position to assess their ability to meet the policy obligations and considered the recognition of the insurance receivable to be supportable: and We performed sensitivity analysis in relation to changes in the timings of costs and incremental increases in costs to assess the recoverability of the insurance receivables.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions used to be appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our internal UK and international tax specialists we: Refer also to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements page 122.
Evaluated the process by which the directors calculated each tax exposure and assessed whether the assumptions they have used, in conjunction The Group has a provision for uncertain tax positions of with their advisors, in developing the estimated exposure, provided a 37.4m.
supportable and reasonable basis to calculate the provision for uncertain tax positions.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions and Estimates have to be made by the directors on the tax methodology used to be appropriate: treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being certain.
Considered any tax opinions or other tax advice the Group had received from its tax advisors in relation to the exposures identified to determine This is due to the complexity of the Groups legal that the treatment is consistent with the advice obtained.
We also structure including multiple legal entities, the number considered the evidence of recent tax audits and external tax cases of tax jurisdictions primarily the UK and US in which which may have an impact on existing tax exposures.
Based on the work the Group operates, the complexity of international tax performed we found that this support had been appropriately considered in legislation and the changing tax environment.
In addition, determining managements provision: uncertainty arises from intergroup transactions relating Assessed and formed our own views on the key judgements with respect to to goods, services and internal financing.
open and uncertain tax positions and concluded that the judgements made by the directors were materially consistent with our own views in respect of Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is the tax exposures: and uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on the directors judgement of the probable amount of the Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential exposures were liability, or expected amounts recoverable.
appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Our audit procedures focused on the risk that conclusion of the ultimate tax determination by tax authorities is at an amount materially different to the amount recorded.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities We evaluated the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the Refer also to note 35 of the consolidated financial liabilities, with input from our actuarial specialists.
In particular we: statements pages 146 to 150 and note 12 of the Company financial statements pages 168 to 169.
Confirmed that the Groups external specialists, are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective local territory, and The Group has retirement benefit obligations with gross are independent of the Group: liabilities of 1,303.4m, of which 814.5m is recognised by the Company.
The liabilities are significant in the Tested the discount and inflation rate assumptions used by comparing context of the overall Group and Company balance them to our internally developed benchmarks, based on externally derived sheets.
We observed the assumptions to be within our expected range: The valuation of retirement benefit obligations requires Compared assumed mortality rates to national and industry averages.
significant levels of estimation and technical expertise, From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions to be within our including the use of actuarial experts to support expected range and the methodology used to be appropriate: the directors in selecting appropriate assumptions.
Small changes in a number of the key financial and Assessed the assumption for salary increases against the Groups demographic assumptions used to value the retirement historical trend and expected future outlook.
The assumption used was benefit obligations, including discount rates, inflation supported by the evidence we obtained: rates, salary increases and mortality could have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
Considered the appropriateness of the methodology used to update estimates from the latest actuarial valuation and assessed changes in Our audit procedures focused on the risk that the assumptions in aggregate from the prior year to assess the consistency of assumptions used result in an understatement of the approach overall.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions retirement benefit obligation.
and methodology used to be appropriate: and Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
104 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope overall Group coverage.
In addition to the work performed at the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed in-scope reporting units, there is a substantial amount of work enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial performed at head office by the Group audit engagement team.
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, number of complex items, prepared by the head office finance and the industry in which they operate.
function, were audited by the Group engagement team.
These included goodwill, other intangible assets, investments, derivative The Groups accounting process is structured around a local financial instruments and related hedge accounting, bank and other finance function in each of the Groups reporting units.
These borrowings and related finance costs, environmental provisions and functions maintain their own accounting records and controls related insurance receivables, certain onerous contracts and other although transactional processing and certain controls for some provisions, retirement benefit obligations, current and deferred tax reporting units are performed at the Groups shared service and central adjustments raised as part of the consolidation process.
centres and report to the head office finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In aggregate our audit procedures accounted for 61% of Group profit before tax: 61% of Group underlying profit before tax: and In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we 82% of Group total assets key coverage metrics.
As a result of determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the its structure and size, the Group also has a large number of small reporting units by the Group engagement team and by component reporting units that, in aggregate, make up a material portion of the auditors from other PwC network firms.
Where the work was key coverage metrics.
These small reporting units are covered by performed by component auditors, we determined the level of the work performed by the Group audit engagement team, where involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting we perform analytical review procedures.
A significant proportion units so as to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate of these remaining reporting units not selected for local procedures audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the were subject to an analysis of year on year movements, at a Group financial statements as a whole.
level of disaggregation to enable a focus on higher risk balances and unusual movements.
Those not subject to analytical review For each reporting unit we determined whether we required procedures were individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
This an audit of their reported financial information full scope gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial or whether specified procedures addressing specific risk statements as a whole.
characteristics or particular financial statement line items would be sufficient.
Those where a full scope audit was required included Materiality the largest reporting unit Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems in The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Akron, determined as individually financially significant because it materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
contributes more than 15% of the Groups underlying profit before These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to tax.
We performed a full scope audit at a further 10 reporting units, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent based on their size or risk.
Senior members of the Group audit of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line engagement team visited all of these reporting units, to review items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, the work undertaken by component auditors and assess the audit both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a findings.
We also performed specified procedures on 6 reporting whole.
units to address specific risk characteristics or to provide sufficient Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 17.0m 2016: 17.0m.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual We believe that total assets is the primary applied Report, underlying profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance and position of the entity and reflects the performance of the Group.
Further, we consider it Companys principal activity as a holding company.
appropriate to eliminate volatility and to preserve the link between materiality and the performance of the underlying business.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.5m and 15.3m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.85m Group audit 2016: 0.85m and 1.75m Company audit 2016: 1.55m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 105 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in ability to continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report liquidity of the Group thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, The directors confirmation on page 40 of the Annual Report except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal form of assurance thereon.
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the The directors explanation on page 45 of the Annual Report as to audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we period they have done so and why they consider that period to are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also directors statement that they have carried out a robust considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement Act 2006 have been included.
in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of Based on the responsibilities described above and our work making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and otherwise stated.
Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 106 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Other Code Provisions Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report statements when: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material The statement given by the directors, on page 97, that they misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance and understandable, and provides the information necessary is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a and performance, business model and strategy is materially material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in obtained in the course of performing our audit.
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial The section of the Annual Report on page 66 describing the work statements.
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance at: www.
This description forms with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a part of our auditors report.
relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Directors Remuneration for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Companies Act 2006.
CA06 for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Responsibilities for the financial statements and the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Other required reporting As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Companies Act 2006 exception reporting responsibilities set out on pages 96 to 97, the directors are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in in our opinion: accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible We have not received all the information and explanations we for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable require for our audit: or the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible received from branches not visited by us: or for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going are not made: or concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 2 October 2003 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 15 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2017.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2018
