100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plcs group financial Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the statements and company financial statements the financial Auditors' responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements statements give a true and fair view of the state of the section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 2017 and of the groups and the companys profit and the our opinion.
groups cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly Independence prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the We remained independent of the group in accordance with European Union: the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical the company financial statements have been properly Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting these requirements.
Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonthe financial statements have been prepared in audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act not provided to the group or the company.
2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Other than those disclosed in Note 7 to the financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the We have audited the financial statements, included within group or the company in the period from 1 January 2017 to the Annual Report, which comprise: the group and parent 31 December 2017. company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017: the group and parent company Income Statements and Statements of Comprehensive Income, the group Statement of Cash Flows, and the group and parent company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall group materiality: 9.5m 2016: 8.6m, based on 5% of underlying profit before tax, which comprises profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Overall company materiality: 1.1m 2016: 1.2m, based on 0.5% of net assets.
Materiality We scoped the audit based on entities that significantly contribute to underlying profit before tax greater than 15%, thereafter based on material components in order to obtain sufficient coverage of the group.
We conducted full scope audits of the financial information of 14 reporting entities, across six countries.
Audit scope We conducted specified procedure reviews of financial information of two reporting entities across two countries.
Certain group functions and entities, including those covering treasury, taxation and pensions were also subject to full scope audits.
Area of focus Taken together, these territories and functions where we performed our procedures accounted for 73% of group revenue and 77% of underlying profit before tax.
We focused on the following key audit matters: Complex and judgemental areas of revenue recognition.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions.
Valuation and impairment of intangible assets.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and supporting documentation, review of correspondence with considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
and reports to the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports framework applicable to the group and the industries in which in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud We did not identify any key audit matters relating to may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material including testing journals and evaluating whether there was misstatement in the group and company financial statements, evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, material misstatement due to fraud.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors' professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditor, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Complex and judgemental areas of revenue recognition We have performed walkthroughs of key controls relevant to material revenue streams and performed testing over these controls in order to The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements obtain comfort over the cut off, occurrence and accuracy of revenue discloses JLTs revenue accounting policy refer to page 115. around the group.
Revenue is the largest balance in the group financial statements.
We substantively tested the timing of recognising revenue in material The group has a number of revenue streams for which the timing and revenue streams by reviewing and assessing contractual terms and extent of revenue recognition is considered to be more complex or performance obligations to customers.
judgemental, for example, revenue streams with ongoing performance conditions, long term revenue streams which generate significant We substantively tested accrued and deferred revenue by evaluating accrued income balances and third party revenue sharing arrangements.
the appropriateness of the key assumptions and considering the accuracy of prior year estimates against the current year realisation which did not identify unusual or irregular items.
We reviewed unusual or complex contracts, for example, third party pay away arrangements, and assessed them to ensure there is appropriate revenue recognition in line with the terms of the contract.
Based on the results of our testing we did not identify any areas where we deemed revenue recognition was inappropriate.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions We updated our understanding of managements process to identify and evaluate provisions for potential and outstanding litigation for As at 31 December 2017, the Group had a litigation provision of 6.3m the group.
We met with management to discuss new significant legal The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements provisions as well as changes to significant existing potential and discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to litigation provisions refer actual legal provisions.
to page 115 and Note 23 outlines the detailed provision disclosures.
We reviewed the E&O register maintained by the Group Legal There is an inherent level of uncertainty that surrounds litigation department as well as minutes of committee meetings.
provisions in relation to potential and actual claims where clients or third parties believe there has been fault in the services provided.
In instances where external legal counsel was engaged, we obtained external confirmations.
Consequently a high degree of management judgement is involved in determining the level of provision required.
We substantively tested legal expenses across the Group to identify any other potential areas of unrecorded potential and actual claims.
We understood the underlying assumptions, rationale and sensitivities having regard to the potential for bias.
We considered the appropriateness of the judgements and sensitivities management have adopted to determine any significant legal provisions, as well as the resulting disclosures.
We have reviewed the accuracy of managements estimates in the prior years against actual settlements or current estimates.
Based on the work performed we found that the assumptions used were supported by the evidence we obtained.
The nature of the provisions, being determined on an assessment of legal outcomes, means any final settlement is subject to significant uncertainty.
The results could differ, possibly materially, from the amounts provided.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation and impairment of intangible assets We evaluated the results of managements impairment assessment, including an assessment of the appropriateness of the methodology As at 31 December 2017, the group had goodwill of 577.8m 2016: used to perform this, and performed substantive testing of all inputs into 543.0m and intangible assets of 109.0m 2016: 102.0m.
their valuation such as agreeing to the approved budgets and checking The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements historical performance against the budget.
discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to goodwill and intangibles We considered the appropriateness of the following key assumptions refer to page 113, and Notes 11 and 12 outline the detailed goodwill within managements valuation: Terminal growth rates in the and intangible disclosures.
forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: Based on the results of their impairment analysis, management and WACC by assessing the cost of capital for the company and determined there was headroom of the recoverable amount above the comparable organisations.
net asset value in each of the groups Cash Generating Units CGUs, We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions and therefore there was no impairment.
set out above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions We focused on this area because the determination of whether or not that either individually or collectively would be required for goodwill to certain elements of goodwill and intangible assets were impaired involves be impaired.
complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the future Based on our testing we determined that the impairment assessment results of the relevant parts of the business.
Management calculates the performed is reasonable based on the current business plans and recoverable amount by using a value in use VIU discounted cash flow historical performance for both goodwill and significant intangible assets.
model underpinned by key assumptions which are the terminal growth rates and weighted average cost of capital WACC by CGU.
Valuation of pension deficit We tested the controls over the completeness and accuracy of pension scheme data on which the pension liability assumptions are based.
As at 31 December 2017, the net pension liability is 169.3m 2016: 198.4m.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used by management including the key assumptions used to value the UK The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements pension liabilities discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to the various pension arrangements refer to page 115, and Note 31 outlines the detailed - Discount rate: we considered the appropriateness of the 2.45% pension disclosures.
discount rate assumption used by reference to the iBoxx AA 15 corporate bond index.
We reviewed the adjustment made by We focus on this area as the pension scheme obligation is highly management to match the duration of the liabilities and compared sensitive to changes in the assumptions used within the model this to assumptions adopted by other schemes with a similar to calculate the valuation and subsequent charge or credit to the duration.
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
- Inflation rate: we agreed the rates used by management for each of Those assumptions to which the liability is most sensitive are as follows: these elements to the Bank of England inflation curve.
Discount rate: Under IAS 19, the discount rate should be set with - Mortality: we considered the appropriateness of the base tables reference to the yield on high quality corporate bonds of term selected for use by management by reference to the mortality appropriate to the duration of the liabilities.
experience analysis completed by the UK Pension Scheme Trustees Future rates of price inflation: the level of future pension payments is as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
linked to price inflation indices.
Various investment market statistics From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions and methodology are used to form a view on the long term average rates of price retail used to be appropriate.
Post retirement mortality: Scheme specific base tables are used with an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy based on recent projections.
These projections will depend on future expectations of improvements in life expectancy and are therefore uncertain.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The Head Office & Other segment consists mainly of holding enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial companies, central administration functions, the Group's statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of captive insurance companies and the Groups investments the group and the company, the accounting processes and in associates.
controls, and the industry in which they operate.
There were three financially significant components made up The group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main of JLT Specialty Limited Risk & Insurance, JLT Reinsurance segments, based on the services and products offered: Brokers Limited Risk & Insurance, and Jardine Lloyd Risk & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Thompson Australia Pty Limited and its controlled entities Risk Other operations.
The Risk & Insurance business comprises & Insurance.
In addition we selected 11 further reporting entities JLTs global specialist and reinsurance broking activities.
based on their size and risk characteristics for full scope audits The Employee Benefits business consists of pension of their financial information, and two further reporting entities for administration, outsourcing and employee benefits consultancy, specified procedures.
healthcare and wealth management activities.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Taken together, the territories and functions where we We issued instructions to each component engagement team.
performed our audit work accounted for 73% of group revenue As part of the supervision process the group engagement team and 77% of underlying profit before tax.
visited JLT operations in Hong Kong, Colombia, Brazil, the US, and the shared service operations in Mumbai.
We have held In establishing the overall approach to the group audit we regular planning and coordination calls with our component determined the type of work that needed to be performed at audit teams.
During our half year review and year end audit we the reporting units by us, the group engagement team, and held weekly calls with each component audit team to ensure component auditors from other PwC network firms operating significant audit and accounting issues were discussed and under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by insights are shared in a timely manner.
We have attended half component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we year and year end results calls with local management and our needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be component audit teams to understand the local businesses.
able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence We have reviewed all inter-office reporting submissions from had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group component audit teams.
We have continued to undertake financial statements as a whole.
remote reviews of significant component work papers, this year reviewing Australia and the US.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 9.5m 2016: 8.6m.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax, which comprises profit 0.5% of net assets.
before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark When reviewing financial performance management As the company is the ultimate parent for the group applied focus on underlying profit that is, profit before tax and does not actively trade, profit is not seen as a key excluding non-recurring exceptional items.
Consequently, net assets has been deemed measure that is used both to discuss performance of as an appropriate benchmark given the nature of the the group with investors and in calculating employee company being that of a holding company.
bonuses and therefore we have concluded it is the most appropriate measure of performance against which to set our materiality benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.5m and 7.0m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 470,000 Group audit 2016: 438,000 and 53,500 Company audit 2016: 60,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial to continue as a going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT CONTINUED The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The other information comprises all of the information in the The directors explanation on pages 95 and 96 of the Annual Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the group, over what period they have done so and why they other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise group will be able to continue in operation and meet its explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our including any related disclosures drawing attention to any responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing necessary qualifications or assumptions.
so, consider whether the other information is materially We have nothing to report having performed a review of inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge the directors statement that they have carried out a robust obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the of making inquiries and considering the directors process financial statements or a material misstatement of the other supporting their statements: checking that the statements are information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding to report based on these responsibilities.
of the group and company and their environment obtained in the With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, course of the audit.
Listing Rules we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to Based on the responsibilities described above and our work report when: undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, The statement given by the directors, on pages 94 and 95, that CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and balanced and understandable, and provides the information matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless necessary for the members to assess the groups and otherwise stated.
companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of Strategic Report and Directors Report the group and company obtained in the course of performing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course our audit.
of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is The section of the Annual Report on pages 69 and 70 consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared describing the work of the Audit Committee does not in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and The directors statement relating to the companys company and their environment obtained in the course of the compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group Directors Remuneration and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to or liquidity of the group be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Companies Act 2006.
CA06 The directors confirmation on pages 94 and 95 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors if, in our opinion: Responsibilities set out on pages 94 and 95, the directors we have not received all the information and explanations we are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements require for our audit: or in accordance with the applicable framework and for being adequate accounting records have not been kept by the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been also responsible for such internal control as they determine is received from branches not visited by us: or necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud law are not made: or or error.
the company financial statements and the part of the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in responsible for assessing the groups and the companys agreement with the accounting records and returns.
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to Appointment liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, Based on the records available, we were first appointed by the or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
directors in 1997 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1997, and have been annually reappointed Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements by the members at the Annual General Meeting for subsequent Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement whether the financial statements as a whole are free from is 21 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1997 to material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 31 December 2017. issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered Nick Wilks Senior Statutory Auditor material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could for and on behalf of  LLP reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
London 28 February 2018 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
