American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 37 Independent Auditors Report American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 38 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc the Company which comprise: the statement of comprehensive income: the statement of changes in equity: the statement of financial position: the statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and AIC SORP.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and ownership of investments Recognition of investment income Calculation of performance fees The key audit matters within this report are in line with the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 9,800,000 which was determined on the basis of 1% of net assets at 31st December 2017.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes No significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
in our approach 3 8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 I American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 a to the We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or financial statements about whether they considered it draw attention to in respect of these matters.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge attention to in respect of these matters.
we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 20-21 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 20-21 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O RS R E P O R T | 3 9 American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 40 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Valuation and ownership of fixed asset investments Key audit matter description The fixed asset investments of the Company at 31st December 2017 were 1,084 million 2016: 1,078 million.
There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not be actively traded and the prices quoted may not be reflective of fair value or that they may not represent the property of the Company.
See Accounting policy at note 1 b and detailed disclosures at note 11.
This key audit matter was included as a significant issue in the Audit Committee Report on page 31.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of controls over the ownership and valuation of fixed audit responded to the asset investments by reviewing the J. P. Morgan Investor Services J. P. Morgan and J. P. Morgan Asset key audit matter Management internal control reports.
We agreed 100% of the Companys year-end fixed asset investments to confirmations received directly from the custodian, JP Morgan Chase Bank.
We agreed 100% of the bid prices of fixed asset investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source, which includes a variety of pricing sources with Bloomberg as the primary source.
We made enquiries of the Manager and Directors regarding their assessment of the portfolio pricing and liquidity, and sample tested for reasonableness.
Key observations No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Recognition of investment income Key audit matter description Investment income for the year was 25.6 million 2016: 20.5 million.
Dividends are accounted for as investment income on an ex-dividend basis, except where, in the opinion of the Manager and the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is treated as a return of capital.
There is a risk that investment income is incomplete or that it is incorrectly allocated between investment income and capital accounts.
We also identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
See Accounting policy at note 1 d and detailed disclosures at note 4.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls over investment income recognition by audit responded to the reviewing the J. P. Morgan Investor Services and J. P. Morgan Asset Management internal control key audit matter reports.
We tested 100% of dividends recorded during the year by recalculating the dividend entitlement on each security held throughout the year using independent revenue history market data and the expected holding at the ex-dividend date.
We developed an understanding of managements control on allocation of income, and for a sample of special dividends and corporate actions, we assessed the Managers rationale for the classification between revenue and capital.
We assessed the accounting policies for investment income recognition against the requirements of FRS 102 and AIC SORP and tested 100% of the investment income recorded to review their application during the year.
4 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 I American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 41 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Calculation of Performance Fees Key audit matter description There is no performance fee payable in the current period 2016: nil.
See Accounting policy at note 1 e. Performance fees or the performance provision are calculated based on the difference in the return between the Company and its benchmark, the S&P 500 index over 10%.
As this is a complex calculation, there is a risk the performance fee may be calculated incorrectly and not in line with the Investment Management Agreement.
There is also a risk that the performance fee calculation has not been reviewed and approved by the Board of directors.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls over performance fee calculation by audit responded to the reviewing the J. P. Morgan Investor Services and J. P. Morgan Asset Management internal control key audit matter reports.
We re-performed the calculation of the performance fee to confirm that no performance fee was payable in the current period as per the terms of the signed investment management agreement.
To evaluate whether performance fee calculation has been subject to Board approval, we have obtained and reviewed the minutes for all Board and sub-committee meetings in the year ended 31st December 2017.
Key observations We have not identified any misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance in the calculation of the performance fee for the year end 31st December 2017.
Furthermore we have reviewed the Board minutes for the year then ended and confirmed this calculation has been subject to Board approval.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 9,800,000 2016: 9,852,000.
Basis for determining 1% of net assets as at the year end.
This basis was also used in the prior year.
materiality Rationale for the The key driver of shareholder value for the investment Company is net asset value, as such we have benchmark applied considered this the most appropriate benchmark for determining a materiality threshold.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2016: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work designed to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the administrator who prepares the financial statements of the Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O RS R E P O R T | 4 1 American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 42 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
information comprises the information included in the Annual Report including the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
4 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 I American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 43 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O RS R E P O R T | 4 3 American p37-44 22 03 2018 09:37 Page 44 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 10th January 2007 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31st December 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 12 years, covering the years ending 31st December 2006 to 31st December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Andrew Partridge, CA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 22nd March 2018 4 4 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7
