Mondi Group 140 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Mondi plc and Mondi Limited operate under a dual listed company structure as a single economic entity.
The Group consists of Mondi plc, Mondi Limited and their respective subsidiaries.
The Group financial statements combine and consolidate the financial statements of the Group and include the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates.
 LLP is the appointed auditor of Mondi plc, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom in terms of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
 Inc. is the appointed auditor of Mondi Limited, a company incorporated in South Africa in terms of the Companies Act of South Africa.
 LLP and  Inc. each separately the Group engagement team audited the financial statements of the Group.
 LLP audited the Group financial statements and Mondi plc parent company financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017.
 Inc. audited the Group financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017.
For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Mondi plc and  Inc. in relation to South African legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the shareholders of Mondi Limited.
"For the purposes of the Our audit approach section of this report, ""we"" and ""our"" refer to the Group engagement team, except for the purposes of the table on pages 142 to 144 that sets out the key audit matters and how our audit addressed the key audit matters, where the terms ""we"" and ""our"" refer to  LLP and or  Inc. and or our component teams."
Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to the members of Mondi plc In our opinion: e the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Mondi plc parent companys affairs as at 31December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: e the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: e the Mondi plc parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion of  LLP in relation to the Group financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion of  Inc. on the Group financial statements to the shareholders of Mondi Limited In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31December 2017, and its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and the provisions of the Companies Act of South Africa.
What we have audited  LLP and  Inc. have audited the Group financial statements set out on pages 150 to 202 of the Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 the Integrated Report, which comprise: e the combined and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31December 2017: e the combined and consolidated income statement for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 141 e the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of the significant accounting policies.
 LLP has audited the Mondi plc parent company financial statements set out on pages 207 to 213 of the Integrated Report, which comprise: e the Mondi plc parent company balance sheet as at 31December 2017: e the Mondi plc parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and e the notes to the Mondi plc parent company financial statements, which include a summary of the significant accounting policies.
The Group financial statements and the Mondi plc parent company financial statements are referred to in this report as the financial statements.
Basis for opinion  LLP conducted their audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
 Inc. conducted their audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under ISAs and ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Independence  LLP remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or Mondi plc.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the Group financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or Mondi plc in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31December 2017.
 Inc. is independent of the Group in accordance with the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors Code of Professional Conduct for Registered Auditors IRBA Code and other independence requirements applicable to performing audits of financial statements in South Africa.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IRBA Code and in accordance with other ethical requirements applicable to performing audits in South Africa.
The IRBA Code is consistent with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Parts A and B.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 45 million, based on 5% of profit before tax adjusted for special items.
Overall Mondi plc parent company materiality: 30 million, based on 1% of total assets.
We identified one component as a significant component which required an audit of its complete financial information due to its financial significance to the Group and a further 9 components where we have concluded that the component engagement leader is a Key Audit Partner as defined under ISAs UK.
These 10 components are located in Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Russia, Slovakia and South Africa.
We obtained full scope audit reporting from an additional 18 components, including operating units and treasury operations.
Specified audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 26 components.
We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements and determined the following key audit matters for2017: e Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment: e Taxation: e Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment: and e Valuation of forestry assets.
No key audit matters specific to the Mondi plc parent company financial statements were identified.
Mondi Group 142 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Groupand the industryin which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Groupwhich were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk that non-compliance withthe UK Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act of South Africa 2008, the UK Listing Rules and or the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited Listings Requirements, gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements.
In assessing compliance with laws and regulations, our tests included checking the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, assessment of certain component auditors work, enquiries with management and enquiries of legal counsel.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period.
In terms of ISAs UK, they include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment Goodwill of 698 million 2016: 681 million is We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of the judgement related to assessed annually for impairment using a value-inthe level at which impairment is assessed for property, plant and equipment, use basis to determine recoverable amount, while being the lowest level at which largely independent cash inflows can be property, plant and equipment of 3,962million identified the cash generating unit, CGU.
We also assessed the level at 2016: 3,788million is assessed for impairment which goodwill is monitored for impairment, including the impact ofthe or impairment reversal where possible indicators of business reorganisation in 2017 related to the SouthAfricaDivision.
impairment or impairment reversal are identified.
For property, plant and equipment, we evaluated managements assessment The Groups assessment of the carrying value of impairment indicators, as well as indicators of impairment reversal, including of goodwill and property, plant and equipment the conclusions reached.
Our evaluation included assessing the process requires accounting judgement and estimation, in performed by management in accordance with the Groups accounting policy particular in forecasting growth rates and future to identify impairment triggers, together with an assessment of business cash flows, establishing the discount rates to performance in the year, including specific consideration of the impact of the be applied and in determining the level at which business restructuring announced during 2017. impairments should be assessed, and therefore we Where impairment tests were performed, we assessed the basis for considered it to be a key audit matter.
The Group managements estimates of growth rates and future cash flows with reference to has recorded impairment charges of 50million historical trading performance, market expectations and management forecasts.
2016: 27 million and impairment reversals of 14 We used our internal valuation expertise to independently recalculate the discount million 2016: 2 million related to property, plant rates applied and checked the mathematical accuracy of managements valuation andequipment.
Where a reversal of property, plant and equipment impairment was Refer to notes 1, 10, 11 and 33, and the Audit identified, in addition to testing the basis of managements estimates, we also Committees views set out on page 101. checked the reversal calculated did not exceed the historical depreciated value of the impacted assets, taking into account depreciation that would have been charged if no impairment had been recorded previously.
For the groups of CGUs that have goodwill attached to them, we also compared the Groups market capitalisation with the aggregate enterprise value reflected in managements impairment models.
We recalculated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups goodwill impairment models to reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions and considered the appropriateness of disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment reviews.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from our work.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 143 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation The Group has operations in a number of Our audit work, which involved taxation audit specialists in specific locations geographical locations and as such is subject to where local tax knowledge was considered necessary, included the multiple tax jurisdictions, giving rise to complexity in assessment of taxation assets and liabilities, with particular consideration accounting for the Groups taxation.
given to the judgements taken by management in relation toaccounting for tax incentives, corporate tax provisions and the recognition ofdeferred tax In particular, the existence of tax incentives assets.
available to the Group and historical tax losses requires estimation of forecast taxable profitability We assessed the Groups treatment of tax incentives and whether it and of the expected utilisation of incentives in was appropriate to classify arrangements as investment tax credits, determining the appropriate tax charge for the by considering the related incentive criteria.
We also considered the Group and recognition of deferred tax assets.
appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy for investment tax credits There are also cross-border transactions which and tested the application of the policy toincentive arrangements available give rise to transfer pricing related risks that require inthe year.
judgement to determine the appropriate tax charge We also involved transfer pricing specialists to consider the appropriateness and any associated provisions, and for these of the Groups assessment of its exposure to transfer pricing related risks reasons we considered it to be a key audit matter.
and related corporate tax provisions.
Our assessment included reading Refer to notes 7 and 33, and the Audit Committees relevant third-party evidence and correspondence with tax authorities.
In relation to deferred tax assets, we satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements judgements on the availability of future taxable profits in determining whether to recognise these assets.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures innote 7 and note 33 to the financial statements.
Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment The Group continues to invest in significant capital Our audit work included testing the amounts capitalised to supporting projects, with capital expenditure of 649 million evidence and evaluating whether assets capitalised satisfied the required incurred during the year ended 31 December 2017, recognition criteria.
We also assessed the useful economic lives assigned including the Groups major capital projects in the with reference to the Groups historical experience, including assessing the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia and Slovakia.
level of fully depreciated assets held by the Group.
We read the Groups The significant level of capital expenditure requires Board and Executive Committee minutes to evaluate the completeness of consideration of the nature of the costs incurred to managements consideration of any events that warranted changes to the ensure that their capitalisation in property, plant and useful economic lives.
equipment meets the specific recognition criteria As Group auditors, we visited the Mondi sites and component auditors in the Groups accounting policy, in particular for where significant capital projects are ongoing, including units in the Czech assets constructed by the Group, and the useful Republic, Poland, Russia and Slovakia, to understand the nature of the economic lives assigned by management are projects and to discuss with our component teams the local audit testing to appropriate.
For these reasons we considered it be performed by them related to the capitalisation of assets.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures innote 10 and Refer to notes 10 and 33, and the Audit note 33 to the financial statements.
Committees views set out on page 100.
Mondi Group 144 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of forestry assets The valuation of the Groups forestry assets, We evaluated the Companys valuation model for calculating the fair value amounting to 325 million 2016: 316 million, is of biological assets by assessing the model against the criteria in IAS 41 dependent upon various assumptions that are Agriculture and IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
subject to significant estimation and prevailing In evaluating the valuation of the forestry assets, our procedures primarily market prices and, therefore, we considered it consisted of substantive tests of details, where we assessed the to be a key audit matter.
The change in fair value appropriateness of the inputs and the assumptions used in the valuation of 43million 2016: 64 million in the year is model taking into account supporting evidence, and analytical procedures, recorded in the income statement.
where we compared the inputs and assumptions in the 31 December 2016 The most significant assumptions included in the valuation with the 31 December 2017 valuation.
We also performed valuation model relate to the determination of the procedures over the mathematical accuracy of the valuation model.
estimated net standing prices to be applied to We compared the estimated net standing prices to third party evidence and the forestry assets, the conversion factor used to the inputs used in the conversion factor to convert hectares of land under convert hectares of land under afforestation to afforestation to tonnes of standing timber with supporting historical evidence tonnes of standing timber and the risk adjustment as well as benchmarking the conversion factor against industry data.
We rate applied to immature timber.
also assessed the risk adjustment applied in the valuation model to immature Refer to notes 13 and 33, and the Audit timber by agreeing the factors taken into account in the risk adjustment to Committees views set out on page 101. historical evidence, industry data and other corroborating evidence provided by management.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the sensitivity of the valuation to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures innote 13 and note 33 to the financial statements.
 LLP have determined that there are no additional key audit matters to communicate in our report with regard to the audit of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements for the current period.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent companies, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed atcomponents by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors operating under our instruction.
We identified one component as a significant component as defined within ISAs UK and ISAs which, in our view, required an audit of its complete financial information, due to its financial significance to the Group.
Outside of this component, we obtained full scope audit reporting from a further 9 components, where we concluded that the component engagement leader is a Key Audit Partner as defined under ISAs UK, and an additional 18 components.
Together, these components were in 9 countries, representing the Groups principal businesses, and accounted for 66% of the Groups revenue.
Specified audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 26 components and central testing was performed on selected items, such as goodwill, primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
In aggregate, the locations subject to audit procedures represented 84% of the Groups revenue.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at thosecomponents to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication with them throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending certain component clearance meetings, as well as reviewing and assessing any matters reported.
The Group engagement team also reviewed selected audit working papers for certain in-scope component teams.
We also issued audit transition instructions to all of our component auditors and held an audit transition workshop attended by selected component teams, largely focused on the planning for our audit transition as part of our first year audit.
In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited component teams in Slovakia, Poland, Russia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria and South Africa.
These visits included meetings with local management and with the component auditors, and typically involved operating site tours.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 145 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Mondi plc parent company financial statements Overall materiality 45 million.
How we determined it Based on 5% of profit before tax adjusted for 1% of total assets.
Rationale for For overall Group materiality, we chose an For overall Mondi plc parent company materiality, benchmark applied adjusted profit before tax measure as the  LLP determined the benchmark.
The adjusted profit before tax materiality based on total assets, which is more measure removes the impact of significant applicable than a performance-related measure as items which do not recur from year to year or the company is an investment holding company otherwise significantly affect the underlying trend for the Group.
Using professional judgement, of performance from continuing operations.
This  LLP determined is the metric against which the performance materiality for this year at 30 million, which of the Group is most commonly assessed by equates to approximately 1% of the current years management and reported to members.
chose 5%, which is consistent with quantitative materiality thresholds used for profit-oriented companies in this sector.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.5 million and 37 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK  LLP report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about to.
However, because not all future events or conditions whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors to the Groups and Mondi plc parent companys ability identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Mondi plc parent to continue as a going concern.
companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Mondi Group 146 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Other information Reporting on other information by  LLP The other information comprises all of the information in the Integrated Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the UK Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Mondi plc parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: p The directors confirmation on page 36 of the Integrated Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
p The disclosures in the Integrated Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
p The directors explanation on page 41 of the Integrated Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Mondi plc parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 147 Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: p The statement given by the directors, on page 139, that they consider the Integrated Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Mondi plc parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Mondi plc parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
p The section of the Integrated Report on pages 97 to 101 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
p The directors statement relating to Mondi plcs compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Reporting on other information by  Inc.
The other information comprises the contents of the Integrated Report listed on page 1 outside of the Group financial statements being the Overview, the Strategic report, the Governance section, the Directors responsibility statement, the Mondi plc parent company financial statements, the extracted financial information of Mondi Limited parent company audited financial statements, the Group financial record, Production statistics, Exchange rates, Additional information for Mondi plc shareholders, Shareholder information, and the Glossary of terms and the contents of the Mondi Limited audited annual financial statements.
Other information does not include the Group financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Group financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Group financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Mondi Group 148 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 139, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework, and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and Mondi plcs ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group and or Mondi plc or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of  LLPs responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in accordance with ISAs UK is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs,  Inc. exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: e Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
e Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
e Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
e Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the Group financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
e Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Group financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the Group financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
e Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 149 We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Group financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Use of the independent auditors report of  LLP The independent auditors report of  LLP, including the opinions issued by  LLP, has been prepared for and only for the members of Mondi plc as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
 LLP does not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by  LLPs prior consent in writing.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Other required reporting by  LLP UK Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Mondi plc parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or e certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or e the Mondi plc parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 11May2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
This is, therefore,  LLPs first year of uninterrupted engagement auditing Mondi plc.
Other required reporting by  Inc.
In terms of the IRBA Rule published in Government Gazette Number 39475 dated 4 December 2015, we report that  Inc. has been the auditor of Mondi Limited for one year.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor  Inc. for and on behalf of  LLP Director: JFM Kotz Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Registered Auditor London, United Kingdom Johannesburg, South Africa 1 March2018 1 March2018
