Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, TBC Bank Group PLCs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the consolidated and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the consolidated and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and separate statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated statement of profit or loss and comprehensive income, the consolidated and separate statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and separate statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for these opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We confirm that  LLP remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Our audit approach Overview Overall consolidated materiality: GEL19.7m 2016: GEL 15.8m based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall parent company materiality: GEL 14.7m 2016: GEL 15.8m based on 1% of total assets.
Our scoping was driven by legal entity contribution to profit before tax and also by geographical location.
Materiality This approach also ensures that we align our resources with the location of the key financial reporting functions and material operations of the Group.
We also considered overall coverage in assessing the appropriateness of our scoping.
Our primary location for scoping purposes is Tbilisi, Georgia.
The area of focus which was of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements was: - Impairment of loans and advances to customers.
Audit scope There were no key audit matters to report on the audit of the parent company financial statements.
Key audit matters The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 157 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and the requirements of key regulators such as the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK and the National Bank of Georgia for the operations in Georgia.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We understood and evaluated the design of the key controls over Impairment of loans and advances to customers the impairment processes and tested their operating effectiveness.
These controls included: Refer to page 175 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, the governance over the impairment provisioning processes which page 181 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements in Applying includes review and approval and the review of key assumptions: Accounting Policies, pages 182 -184 note 5: New Accounting and pronouncements, and pages 186 to 192 note 9: Loans and advances identification by management of impairment events and relevant to customers.
loans showing indicators of impairment including other indicators such as forbearance.
Impairment provisions are a key judgement representing managements best estimate of the credit losses in the underlying We noted no significant exceptions in the design, implementation or loan portfolios.
Determination of the appropriate provisions involves operating effectiveness of these controls.
Accordingly, we relied on complex calculations and the effect of misstatement on the financial them for the purposes of our audit.
We assessed whether the impairment methodology was in line with Loss provisions are calculated on a collective basis for loan portfolios IAS 39 requirements.
In addition, we performed the following with similar characteristics, and this is done mainly using statistical substantive procedures in response to the areas of focus.
models driven by both observable and management determined key inputs such as probabilities of default PD and the loss given We tested a sample of performing loans including loans on default LGD.
managements watch list to evaluate whether impairment indicators existed as at the balance sheet date.
This included evaluating the Individual impairment assessment is performed where individually specific circumstances of the borrower, including the latest significant loans have unique characteristics that require judgement developments, the basis for measuring the impairment provision, and at a loan level to determine the present value of expected future cash whether key judgements were appropriate.
We did not identify any flows and any resulting shortfall.
further impairment events not previously identified by management.
We have focused our work on the following key areas: We tested individually significant exposures on a risk basis to assess the Completeness of observed impaired loans and appropriateness of appropriateness of recorded impairment provisions for the Corporate the assumptions used to estimate impairment events which have and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises MSME portfolios.
We been incurred but not reported: and re-performed managements impairment calculations, testing key inputs Calculation of the required impairment provisions based on such as expected future cash flows and discount rates.
estimated future cash flows, including the use of models and the critical assumptions and inputs used in those models.
With respect to modelled provisions, we tested key assumptions including the PDs and LGDs used in the model calculations.
We compared provisions against the historical performance and market data so as to assess the estimation accuracy of the key models and consider completeness of post model adjustments.
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, we found managements methodology, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable.
158 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance On 1 January 2018, the Group transitioned to the new financial IFRS 9 transition impact disclosure instruments accounting standard IFRS 9, which replaced IAS 39.
In respect of the estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9, we The most significant change for the Group under IFRS 9 relates to the understood and critically assessed classification and measurement provisions for impairment which is now on an expected loss basis, decisions and the impairment models developed by the Group.
This replacing the incurred loss provisioning under IAS 39. included using our credit modelling experts in our assessment of judgements and assumptions supporting the expected credit loss In order to meet the requirements of the new standard, significant requirements of the new standard.
changes have also been made to processes, models and related controls with effect from 1 January 2018.
The estimated transition We re-performed selected model calculations to confirm the model impact is disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements in accordance outputs, tested key data inputs and assessed the reasonableness of with IAS 8.
The most significant change relates to the provisions for forward looking information incorporated into the impairment impairment, including changes to related systems, processes and calculations, in particular, where proxies were adopted due to limited controls.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies and key data inputs used within the models were appropriate, and that the model assumptions and related model outputs were reasonable.
We also assessed the disclosure of the transition impact and consider this reasonable and in accordance with the requirements of IAS 8.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industries in which the Group operates.
TBC Bank Groups banking and insurance activities are primarily carried out in Georgia, with small subsidiary operations in four other countries.
The Groups business activities comprise of 4 segments for which it manages and reports its operating results and financial position, namely Retail Banking, Corporate Banking, Micro Small and Medium Enterprises MSME, and the Corporate Centre.
JSC TBC Bank is the largest subsidiary of the London listed Group.
Its main operations are Retail and Commercial banking, with a small general leasing and insurance business, with all significant operations based in Georgia.
Accounting functions and management of the Group are primarily based in Georgia, which represents 98% of the Group assets and 96% of profit before tax.
We performed audit procedures over this component which is considered financially significant in the context of the Group, using a materiality of GEL 18.7m.
We also performed other audit procedures including testing information technology general controls and other relevant controls related to financial reporting, to mitigate the risk of material misstatement.
Our audit approach and team was also designed to reflect the structure of the Group, and we therefore used component auditors in PwC Georgia, all of whom are familiar with the relevant businesses in their geographical locations, to audit the relevant component that was in scope for the Group audit.
As part of the planning and execution of the audit, the UK audit team visited the significant component in Georgia on several occasions, in order to ensure that the procedures performed to support the Group audit were sufficient for our purposes.
Specific audit procedures were also performed at the UK parent company, mainly related to the presentation of the Group financial statements, the consolidation process, taxation and elements of laws and regulation specific to the UK.
Based on the procedures we performed over the reporting units our audit scoping coverage accounted for 96% of revenue and 98% of total assets of the Group.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Consolidated financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality GEL 19.7m 2016: GEL 15.8m GEL 14.7m 2016: GEL 15.8m How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
1% of total assets We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure The parent company is a holding company with Rationale for used by the shareholders in assessing the performance investments in the trading companies within the Group.
benchmark applied of the consolidated Group, and is a generally accepted The parent companys performance is measured based auditing benchmark.
on the valuation of these investments, and therefore total assets is considered an appropriate materiality benchmark.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED For the component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The materiality allocated was GEL18.7m 2016: GEL 15.5m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 940,000 GEL Group audit 2016: 790,000 GEL and 740,000 GEL Parent company audit 2016: 790,000 GEL as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of We have nothing material to add or to draw the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it attention to.
However, because not all future appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial events or conditions can be predicted, this statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the statement is not a guarantee as to the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months Groups and parent companys ability to from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
160 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 111 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on pages 111 - 112 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 113, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 151 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 112 - 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed by the Audit Committee on 11 August 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
We were reappointed by the members at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2017 following the recommendation by the Audit Committee to audit the year ended 31 December 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 2 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Jeremy Foster Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 March 2018 162 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017
