Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spectris plc Opinion on Financial Statements of Spectris plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related Notes 1 to 50.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets in four of the Groups cash-generating units: Override in the application of the Group inventory provision accounting policy for obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory items: and Accuracy of provisions for taxation in respect of dividends received from EU based companies.
In addition, in the prior year the previous auditors identified acquisitions as a key audit matter.
This has not been identified as a key audit matter in the current year as there were no significant acquisitions.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 9.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of expected adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed on 68 reporting entities and specified audit procedures were undertaken on a further 28 reporting entities.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures covered 74% of Group revenue and 91% of Group profit before tax.
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 83 in the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering draw attention to in respect of these matters.
whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 34 to 38 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors' confirmation on page 39 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors explanation on page 39 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially consistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Spectris plc 85 Spectris plc 85 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spectris plc continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in four of the Groups cash-generating units Key audit matter Total goodwill and intangible assets at 31 December 2017 were 627.5 million and 209.9 million, respectively.
description We focused our impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets testing on four cash-generating units CGUs, being Omega 231.7 million, Millbrook 151.6 million, ESG 14.6 million and Servomex 54.3 million, based on growth assumptions and levels of headroom.
There is a risk surrounding the recoverability of these balances, as assessed annually by management as part of their goodwill impairment review using discounted cash flows on a value in use basis.
The key judgements in assessing goodwill and intangible assets for impairment are the discount rate, the long-term growth rate and the short-term projected cash flows.
The value in use model is sensitive to changes in these estimates, all of which must reflect a long-term view of underlying growth in the respective economies within which these businesses operate and the reasonableness of projected cash flows.
We have pinpointed this significant risk to the short-term future cash flows including the terminal value in the four CGUs above and material judgements contained therein.
This is where the highest degree of sensitivity exists to determining the value in use.
We note that estimating a value in use is inherently uncertain, and a range of assumptions can reasonably be applied in determining the estimates mentioned above.
Note 1 to the Financial Statements sets out the Groups accounting policy for testing goodwill for impairment.
The basis for the impairment reviews is outlined in Note 12 to the Financial Statements, including details of the discount rate and long-term growth rate used.
Note 12 to the Financial Statements also includes details of the extent to which the goodwill and other intangibles test is sensitive to changes in discount rates, long-term growth rates and short-term cash flow projections.
How the scope of Our procedures for challenging managements methodology and assumptions focused on the four our audit responded cash-generating units discussed above and included: to the risk validating the integrity of managements impairment model through testing of the mechanical accuracy and verifying the application of the input assumptions: understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted cash flow projections: evaluating the process management undertook to prepare the cash flow forecasts in its impairment model including agreement with the latest Board approved plans and management approved forecasts: challenging the cash flow projections through assessing the accuracy of historical budgeting by comparing them with actual performance and independent evidence to support any significant expected future changes to the business: considered reasonable possible changes in assumptions to challenge the appropriateness of managements assessment of reasonable possible change scenarios: and our challenge was informed by input from certain of our internal valuation specialists, utilising their knowledge and expertise.
Key observations We determined that there is currently sufficient headroom for Omega, Millbrook, ESG and Servomex such that we concur with management that no impairment is required.
We conclude that the assumptions applied in the impairment models, when taken in aggregate, are within our acceptable range.
86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Override in the application of the Group inventory provision accounting policy for obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory items Key audit matter As described in Note 1 Accounting policies and Note 14 Inventory, the Group carries inventory at the description lower of cost and net realisable value.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group held inventories of 176.0 million 2016: 187.8 million.
Management has to apply judgement to assess the level of provision required to write down obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory items to their net realisable value.
The Group has an inventory provisioning policy and methodology for determining the level of required provision.
The calculation of the inventory provision relies upon assumptions made in determining appropriate provisioning percentages based on estimates of future sales.
The Group accounting policy sets out criteria to apply in determining the level of inventory provision, with written dispensation required from the Group for any override of the policy.
There is a significant risk of material misstatement or potential fraud in any override to the application of the Group accounting policy given the level of management judgement involved in determining whether an override should be recognised and how it should be measured.
The Groups accounting policy for the inventory provision is outlined in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.
How the scope of We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of any override of the Group inventory provisioning policy and our audit responded methodology by: to the key audit considering the appropriateness of the Groups inventory provisioning policy in the context of our matter understanding of the individual businesses in the Group: identifying and understanding instances where the inventory provisioning policy had been overridden compared to that set out in the Group accounting manual: and challenging the validity and accuracy of any override through consideration of actual and forecast sales, actual inventory write-offs and other sources of available evidence, including the ageing and nature of inventory.
Key observations Based on our procedures we confirm that instances of override in the application of the Group inventory provision accounting policy for obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory items are appropriate.
Accuracy of provisions for taxation in respect of dividends received from EU-based companies Key audit matter Estimation is required in relation to the value of the tax provision recorded in respect of taxation on historical description dividends received from EU-based companies.
Accordingly, tax provisioning is included in Note 1 as one of the significant accounting estimates.
As outlined in Note 9, the UKs dividend taxation regime prior to July 2009 is the subject of long-running litigation between HMRC and taxpayers in relation to the tax charge on dividends received from EU-based companies.
Similar to the prior year, as at 31 December 2017 this tax provision remains unchanged at 12.6 million based on the likely outcome of this dispute that certain dividends received from EU-based companies are relevant.
The Audit Committee Report on page 59 refers to provision for uncertain tax exposures as a key estimate considered by the Audit Committee.
The Groups accounting policy for the provision is outlined in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.
Note 1 also includes details of the key sources of estimation uncertainty in relation to taxation.
How the scope of We have reviewed the correspondence in respect of the ongoing litigation between HMRC and tax payers in our audit responded relation to dividends received from EU-based companies and recalculated the 12.6 million provision based on to the key audit existing tax law.
matter We used our tax specialists to assist us in appraising the likely outcome of the litigation with HMRC based on their experience of working with the revenue authorities and reviewed correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness of the provision.
Our tax specialist also considered managements assessment of the risk inherent in tax positions taken and reasonably possible outcomes pending resolution of the litigation.
Key observations Based on the procedures performed, we consider that the overall tax provision in respect of dividends received from EU-based companies is reasonable.
Spectris plc 87 Spectris plc 87 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spectris plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality Group materiality as 9.0 million 2016: 7.4 million.
Basis for determining We have used 5% of expected adjusted profit before tax as the benchmark for determining materiality.
materiality In 2016, the previous auditors used 5% of Group profit before tax, adjusted for the impairment charge related to Omega Engineering and ESG.
Company materiality was set at 40% of Group materiality and equates to 0.4% of the Companys net assets.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before tax is a key performance measure for management, investors and the analyst benchmark applied community.
This metric is important to the users of the Financial Statements investors and analysts being the key users for a listed entity because it portrays the performance of the business and hence its ability to pay a return on investment to the investors.
Likewise this metric takes into account the acquisitive nature of the Group which results in adjusting items needing to be considered when determining the performance of the business.
Net assets are considered to be an appropriate benchmark for the Company given that it is mainly a holding company.
Materiality Adjusted PBT 218.4m Group materiality 9m Group materiality 9m Component materiality range 3.6m to 3m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.45m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.45 million 2016: 0.40 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
88 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 An overview of the scope of our audit The Group operates in more than 30 countries spread across five continents with the largest footprint being in North America, Asia and Europe.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group and component level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the four segments, managed via 12 operating companies located and controlled across different geographical regions, and the Group head office function.
These 12 operating companies are comprised of many individual reporting entities or components, which are the lowest level at which management prepares financial information that is included in the Group Financial Statements.
The parent Company is located in the UK and is audited directly by the Group audit team.
We have considered components on the basis of their contribution to Group revenue and operating profit, as well as those that require local statutory audits in their jurisdiction.
Full scope audit work was completed on 68 reporting entities and specified audit procedures were done on a further 28 reporting entities.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures covered 74% of total Group revenue and 91% of Group profit before tax.
In the prior year, the previous auditors procedures covered 75% of total Group revenue and 87% of Group profit before tax.
Each component in scope was subject to an audit materiality level between 3.0 million and 3.6 million.
The audit work on all components was performed by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team.
Further work was performed at a Group level over the consolidation and components not in scope.
We communicated the results of our risk assessment exercise to the component auditors and instructed them on the areas of significant risk, the procedures to be performed and the form and timing of their reporting to us.
We also provided direction on enquiries made by the component auditors through online and telephone conversations.
All the findings noted were discussed with the component auditor in detail and further procedures to be performed were issued where relevant.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that on a rotational basis the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the primary operating companies where the Group audit scope was focused in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
In relation to the current year audit, the Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the audit team visited South Korea, China, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, USA, Canada and various locations in the UK.
The visits were structured at different stages of the audit and the key components in the UK, USA, China and South Korea were visited during the local audit close meetings.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in information included in the annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our auditors respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Spectris plc 89 Spectris plc 89 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spectris plc continued Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board in July 2016 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The Boards decision was approved at the Groups Annual General Meeting in May 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 19 February 2018 Spectris plc 91 Spectris plc 91
