BAE Systems 136 Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc only 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment Our response Opinions and conclusions arising ofrisksofmaterial misstatement Our audit procedures included: fromour audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in our Our actuarial expertise: We used our own 1.
Our opinion is unmodified professional judgement, were of most significance actuarialspecialists to challenge key assumptions We have audited the financial statements of inthe audit of the Group financial statements and estimates used in the calculation of the pension BAE Systems plc the Company for the year andinclude the most significant assessed risks deficit.
The key assumptions and estimates we ended31 December 2017 which comprise the ofmaterial misstatement whether or not due to tested included the discount rate, inflation and life Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated fraud identified by us, including those which had expectancy assumptions that were applied to the statement of comprehensive income, the the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the valuation.
We also compared the IAS 19 valuation Consolidated statement of changes in equity, allocation of resources in the audit: and directing with the triennial funding valuations of the UK theConsolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise schemes notwithstanding that they were prepared cash flow statement, the Company Statement of below the key audit matters, in decreasing order on a different basis and as at different dates.
comprehensive income, the Company Statement ofaudit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion ofchanges in equity, the Company Balance sheet Benchmarking assumptions: We performed above, together with our key audit procedures to and the related notes, including the accounting acomparison of key assumptions against our address those matters and, as required for public policies, on pages 144 to 207. ownbenchmark ranges which are derived from interest entities, our results from those procedures.
externally-available data as well as comparing In our opinion: These matters were addressed, and our results are against those used by other companies reporting the financial statements give a true and fair view based on procedures undertaken, in the context onthe same period.
of the state of the Groups and of the parent of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Methodology assessment: We used our own companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and financial statements as a whole, and in forming actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness ofthe Groups profit for the year then ended: ouropinion thereon, and consequently are and consistency of the methodology applied incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide the Group financial statements have been bymanagement in setting the key assumptions.
aseparate opinion on these matters.
properly prepared in accordance with International Wechallenged the reasons for any changes Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the inmethodology and considered the presence Group financial statements European Union: ofindicators for bias.
the parent company financial statements have 2.1.
Net retirement benefit obligations Multi-employer allocation: We challenged been properly prepared in accordance with Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report and pages management in respect of their selection of the UKaccounting standards, including FRS 101, 174to183 accounting policy and financial disclosures basisupon which to allocate a portion of the Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Groups share of the net IAS 19 deficit: multi-employer retirement benefit obligations the financial statements have been prepared 3,920m 2016 6,054m toother participating employers and, in respect of inaccordance with the requirements of the the largest participating employer being MBDA, Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Risk versus 2016: agreed the amount allocated to their records.
Groupfinancial statements, Article 4 of the Assessing transparency: We considered the IASRegulation.
The risk: Subjective valuation adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect of The valuation of the defined benefit pension deficit Basis for opinion retirement benefits, in particular the net retirement depends on a number of judgemental assumptions We conducted our audit in accordance with benefit obligation and the assumptions used, which and estimates, including the discount rates used to International Standards on Auditing UK are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
calculate the current value of the future payments ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Group expects to pay pensioners, the rate of Results are described below.
We believe that the audit inflation that must be incorporated in the estimate We found the valuation of the net retirement evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and of the future pension payments and the life benefit obligation to be acceptable 2016 result: appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit expectancy of pension scheme members.
opinionis consistent with our report to the There is a considerable amount of judgement AuditCommittee.
required in setting the above assumptions and, We were appointed as auditor by the directors given the size of the schemes, a small change in the during the period ofthe Companys incorporation assumptions and estimates may have a significant in1981.
The periodof total uninterrupted impact on the retirement benefit obligations.
engagement is for the37 financial years ended Further assumptions are made in the determination 31December 2017.
Wehave fulfilled our ethical of the Groups share of assets and liabilities of the responsibilities under, and we remain independent multi-employer schemes in which it participates of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical andthe corresponding amounts attributed to requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard otherparticipating employers.
asapplied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that Standard wereprovided during 2017 by KPMG.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 137 Our response 2.2.
Recognition of revenues and profits 2.3.
Valuation of goodwill Our audit procedures included: onlong-term contracts Refer to page 85 Audit Committee report and pages Control design, observation and operation: 158to160 accounting policy and financial disclosures Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report and pages Wetested the design and operating effectiveness 148to150 accounting policy and financial disclosures Goodwill: 9,996m 2016 10,902m ofkey controls within the LCM process that support Revenues: 11,910m 2016 11,659m contract-related balances, including: Risk versus 2016: Risk versus 2016: transactional controls that underpin the production The risk: Forecast-based valuation of long-term contract-related balances, including The risk: Subjective estimate The Group holds a significant amount of goodwill cost information on contracts: We tested the Long-term contracts include complex technical relating to UK and overseas principally US operation of purchase-to-pay cycle and payroll andcommercial requirements and often specify acquisitions during the past 20 years.
The Group controls: performance milestones to be achieved throughout estimates recoverable amounts based on value in programme-level controls: We inspected the contract period, which can last many years.
use which requires significant estimation and resultsfrom periodic peer reviews performed Ateach balance sheet date, estimates and judgement in forecasting future cash flows and byexperienced employees independent to the assumptions involving a high degree of judgement determining discount rates.
contract to challenge assumptions made and and estimation uncertainty are required in order to: The US Department of Defense fiscal year 2018 judgements taken at pre-determined stages assess the proportion of revenues to recognise budget and the current programme of work ofthecontract lifecycle: and inline with milestones achieved and progress supportthe planning assumptions for the Groups higher-level controls: We observed monthly made on contracts: US businesses.
However, future year budgets and contract review meetings, quarterly business the allocation of the budget between the Group forecast the outturn profit margin on each unitreview meetings and Group-level and its competitors remains uncertain.
This places contract, incorporating appropriate allowances reviewmeetings.
continued importance on the US business to secure fortechnical and commercial risks related to For significant contracts including those listed in export contracts.
Both of these factors contribute performance milestones yet to be achieved, ouraudit risk description, determined on the basis tothe risk that the goodwill allocated to the particularly in the case of fixed-price of the current and future technical or commercial GroupsUS Cash-Generating Units CGUs may contracts:and complexity, financial significance and any forecast notbe recoverable, although we consider this appropriately identify, value and provide for tobe in significant loss-making positions: risktohave reduced from the prior year.
Personnel interviews: We obtained an understanding The Applied Intelligence CGU with an allocated The directors have detailed procedures and of the performance and status of the contract goodwill balance of 0.2bn at the reporting date processes, called Lifecycle Management LCM, through discussion with contract project teams, 2016 0.6bn operates in a highly competitive and inplace to manage the commercial, technical Group and business unit directors, as well as through fragmented market where significant investment is andfinancial aspects of long-term contracts.
attendance at project teams contract review required for growth and where the future business TheLCM process includes the regular preparation meetings.
We applied our cumulative knowledge pipeline is much shorter than in most other ofa Contract Status Report CSR, which includes ofthe status of the contracts and challenged the businessunits in the Group.
As such, we consider key accounting and forecast information for the appropriateness of the contract position at the the uncertainty in forecasting cash flows higher relevant contract.
reporting date, including any central overlays to andthe valuation of this CGU to have a higher risk positions reported by subsidiaries and whether The contracts requiring the highest degree of due to these sector-related factors.
An impairment ornot there were any indications of management judgement that occupied a significant proportion charge of 384m was recognised in respect of this override of controls or management bias.
ofthe audit effort included: CGU in 2017 2016 nil.
Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged the Typhoon aircraft European, Saudi and Omani : The remaining goodwill of 1.9bn is primarily Groups positions through the examination of allocated to CGUs based in the UK.
Whilst there Astute Class submarines: externally-available evidence, such as customer remains an inherent risk in the forecasting of Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier: correspondence, and, in the case of one significant futurecash flows for these businesses, many of US commercial shipbuilding contracts: and programme, met the customer directly to further themhold sizeable order backlogs, much of which corroborate the status of contracts and Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme.
iswith government agencies, providing increased recoverability of work-in-progress and receivables.
We consider the valuationrisks around these CGUs to be lower Our valuations expertise: In the case of one specific thanApplied Intelligence.
project, we used our own valuation specialist to assess the valuation performed on behalf of the Group by an external valuation expert.
Results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the amount of revenue and profit on long-term contracts recognised to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
BAE Systems 138 Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Our response 2.4.
Deferred tax assets Our audit procedures included: Refer to page 85 Audit Committee report and page 171 Refer to page 85 Audit Committee report and pages Historical comparison: Assessing the reasonableness accounting policy and financial disclosures 169to171 accounting policy and financial disclosures of the directors assumptions by reference to past Tax accruals: 351m 2016 365m Deferred tax assets: 724m 2016 1,251m performance.
Risk versus 2016: Risk versus 2016: Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the reasonableness of the directors assumptions by The risk: Dispute outcomes The risk: Subjective estimate reference to publicly-available information, such Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors The directors are required to estimate the valuation asfuture defence expenditure.
We also compared to make judgements and estimates in relation to of deferred tax assets and to record those assets the directors assumptions to externally-derived taxrisks.
This is one of the key judgement areas tothe extent their recovery is probable.
This requires data for example, bond yields and inflation thatour audit is concentrated on due to the Group a significant element of judgement.
statistics  data to challenge operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the other key inputs, such as projected economic The majority of the deferred tax asset balance complexities of local and international tax legislation, growth and gearing leverage.
isinrelation to the Groups retirement benefit and the number of years which some matters can obligations.
As a result of the reduction in the Comparing valuations: We compared the sum take to resolve.
valuation of the Groups net share of the retirement ofthediscounted cash flows to the Groups The tax matters are at various stages, from benefit obligations, the Groups related deferred marketcapitalisation to assess the reasonableness  of risks to discussions taxasset has also reduced: compared with last year, ofthose cash flows and challenged managements withtaxauthorities and through to tax tribunal the period required for the Group to recover the explanation in reconciling the two.
amount of deferred tax is less.
For this reason, we Our sector experience: Our valuation specialists have determined that the audit risk has reduced assisted in evaluating the reasonableness of Our response from the prior year.
assumptions and methodologies underlying the Our audit procedures included: discount rates adopted by the directors, including Our response Our taxation expertise: Our tax specialists assisted thediscount rate applied in the valuation of the Our audit procedures included: inassessing the Groups tax positions, its exposure AppliedIntelligence CGU.
to future cash outflows and the assumptions Assessing forecasts: We assessed and challenged Sensitivity analysis: We have run scenario-specific usedby the directors to estimate the tax accruals.
the directors judgement as to why it is deemed models, including changes to the discount rate, Thisincluded an inspection of the Groups probable that the deferred tax assets recognised forecast cash flows and break-even analyses correspondence with the relevant tax authorities willbe recovered, considering: tostress-test the valuations of CGUs recoverable and the Groups external tax advisers.
the appropriateness and reliability of amounts.
Benchmarking assumptions: We used our forecastsused by management to estimate Assessing transparency: We considered the knowledge and experience of the application of therecovery period: adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect theinternational and local legislation by the relevant the timeframe of the pension deficit recovery ofthesensitivities to changes in key assumptions authorities and courts in order to challenge the plan:and and the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
positions taken by the directors.
In support of the consistency of this judgement with other thesepositions, we separately met with certain Results assumptions and estimates made by the directors, keyexternal tax advisers of the Group.
In respect We found the Groups assessment of the for example, thoseused to test impairment of ofcertain matters, we compared the position taken recoverableamount of goodwill to be acceptable assets, including goodwill.
bythe directors with outcomes of similar cases.
Benchmarking assumptions: We considered the Assessing transparency: We have also considered funding arrangements agreed with the Trustees the adequacy of the Groups tax disclosures.
We compared the Results views and estimates arrived at by the directors The results of our testing were satisfactory and asdescribed above with advice received by the wefound the resulting estimate of tax accruals Trustees in arriving at the funding arrangements tobeacceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
onthe covenant provided by the Group over the deficit recovery periods.
Tests of detail: We analysed the calculations used todetermine the estimated recovery period and tested the accuracy of these calculations.
Results As a result of our work, we found the level of deferred tax assets recognised to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 139 Parent company financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and anoverview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as exceeding 3m for income statement items, in 2.6.
Amounts relating to Group affiliates a whole was set at 55m 2016 55m, determined addition to other identified misstatements that These comprise: with reference to a benchmark of Group profit warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
before taxation from continuing operations, of Investments in subsidiary undertakings and Of the Groups 41 2016 41 reporting components, which it represents 4.9% 2016 4.8%.
participating interests: 8,439m 2016 8,399m we subjected 11 2016 11 to full-scopeaudits for Materiality for the parent company financial Group purposes and 14 2016 14 tospecified Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings and statements as a whole was set at 32m 2016 30m, risk-focused procedures.
The latter werein our Group joint ventures: 2,576m 2016 2,954m as communicated by the Group audit team.
This is opinion not individually financially significant Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings and lower than the materiality we would otherwise enough to require an audit for Group reporting Group joint ventures: 8,183 m 2016 8,461 m havedetermined with reference to a benchmark purposes, but did present specific individual risks ofcompany net assets and represents 0.8% that needed to be addressed.
The risk: Material amounts 20160.8% of the Companys net assets.
The components within the scope of our work The carrying amount of the Companys We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any accounted for the following percentages of the investmentsin subsidiaries held at cost less corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements Groups results: impairment and intercompany receivables Group Group represent77% 2016 79% of the Companys Group profit before total totalassets.
The Companys intercompany Number of revenue taxation assets liabilitiesrepresent 80% 2016 79% of the 2017 components % % % Companys total liabilities.
1 Audits for Group reporting purposes 11 67 67 84 We do not consider the valuation of these 2 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 14 24 24 13 investments and recovery of intercompany Total 25 91 91 97 receivables or completeness of intercompany liabilities to be at a high risk of significant 2016 misstatement, or to be subject to a significant 1 Audits for Group reporting purposes 11 69 69 84 levelof judgement.
However, due to their 2 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 14 25 24 10 materialityin the context of the Company financialstatements, this is considered to be Total 25 94 93 94 thearea that had the greatest effect on our 1.
In the UK, US, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In the UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
Our response For the remaining components, we performed 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Tests of detail: We compared the investments analysis at an aggregated level to confirm our We are required to report to you if: andreceivables to the net assets of the relevant preliminary assessment that there were no significant we have anything material to add or draw entities to identify whether these net assets, being risks of material misstatements within these.
attention to in relation to the directors statement an approximation of their minimum recoverable The Group audit team instructed component in the financial statements on page 142 on the amounts, were in excess of the investment carrying auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, use of the going concern basis of accounting with amounts.
We agreed that the intercompany including the relevant risks detailed above and the nomaterial uncertainties that may cast significant liabilities set-off against subsidiary counterparties information to be reported back.
The Group audit doubt over the Group and Companys use of that inthe Group consolidation.
team approved the component materiality levels, basis for a period of at least 12 months from the Our sector experience: We evaluated key which ranged from 2.7m to 32m 2016 4m date of approval of the financial statements: or assumptions in the impairment models for certain to37m, having regard tothe mix of size and risk the related statement under the Listing Rules significant investments, in particular those for profile across the components.
The work on seven setout on page 81 is materially inconsistent profitcontribution and growth, against our own of the 25 2016 seven of the 25 in-scope withour audit knowledge.
knowledge of the historic trading performance components wasperformed by component We have nothing to report in these respects.
auditorsand the remainder, including the audit ofthe parent company, by the Group audit team.
Control observation: We tested the automated 5.
We have nothing to report on the other controls over theprocess for matching and The Group audit team held a global audit conference information in the Annual Report elimination of intercompany balances in the in 2014, where all significant component audit teams The directors are responsible for the other Groupconsolidation.
came together in London to consider the audit risk information presented in the Annual Report and strategy.
Similar planning days took place in together with the financial statements.
Our opinion Results 2017 with the most significant component teams on the financial statements does not cover the other We found the assessment of the amounts recorded from the UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
In addition, the information and, accordingly, we do not express an to be acceptable.
Group audit team visited component teams in the audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, UK, US, Saudi Arabia and Australia to assess the any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
audit risk and strategy, discuss and moderate the Our responsibility is to read the other information results of controls testing and discuss preliminary and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our findings of audit procedures.
Video and telephone financial statements audit work, the information conference meetings were also held with these therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with component auditors and any others in our audit the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
scope that were not physically visited.
At these visits Based solely on that work we have not identified and meetings, the findings reported to the Group material misstatements in the other information.
audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Groupaudit team wasthen performed by the component auditor.
BAE Systems 140 Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Strategic report and Directors report We are required to report to you if the part of the Irregularities ability to detect Based solely on our work on the other information: Directors report section relating to the Companys Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with compliance does not properly disclose a departure relevant laws and regulations irregularities that we have not identified material misstatements from the 11 provisions of the UK Corporate could have a material effect on the financial inthe Strategic report and the Directors report: Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules statements.
In planning and performing our audit, in our opinion the information given in those forour review.
we considered the impact of laws and regulations reports for the financial year is consistent with inthe specific areas of export control, defence We have nothing to report in these respects.
thefinancial statements: and contracting and anti-bribery and corruption in our opinion those reports have been prepared legislation.
We identified these areas through 6.
We have nothing to report on the other in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. discussion with the directors and other management matters on which we are required to report as required byauditing standards, from our sector Directors remuneration report byexception experience and from inspection of the Groups legal In our opinion the part of the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required correspondence.
In addition, we had regard to laws remuneration report to be audited has been toreport to you if, in our opinion: and regulations in other areas, including financial properly prepared in accordance with the adequate accounting records have not been reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
Companies Act 2006. keptby the parent company, or returns adequate We considered the extent of compliance with those Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term for our audit have not been received from laws and regulations that directly affect the financial viability branches not visited by us: or statements, being anti-bribery and corruption and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our the parent company financial statements and as part of our procedures on the related financial financial statements audit, we have nothing material thepart of the Directors remuneration report statement items.
For the remaining laws and to add or draw attention to in relation to: tobe audited are not in agreement with the regulations, we made enquiries of directors and the directors confirmation within the viability accounting records and returns: or other management asrequired by auditing statement on page 81 that they have carried out certain disclosures of directors remuneration standards, and inspected legal correspondence.
arobust assessment of the principal risks facing specified by law are not made: or We communicated identified laws and regulations the Group, including those that would threaten we have not received all the information throughout our team and remained alert to any itsbusiness model, future performance, solvency andexplanations we require for our audit.
indications of non-compliance throughout the and liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
This included communication from the the principal risks disclosures describing these Groupto component audit teams of relevant laws risksand explaining how they are being managed 7.
Respective responsibilities and regulations identified at Group level, with a and mitigated: and Directors responsibilities request to report on any indications of potential the directors explanation in the viability statement As explained more fully in their statement set out existence of irregularities in these areas, or other of how they have assessed the prospects of the onpages 134 and 135, the directors are responsible areas directly identified by the component team.
Group, over what period they have done so and for: the preparation of the financial statements, As with any audit, there remained a higher why they considered that period to be including being satisfied that they give a true and riskofnon-detection of irregularities, as these appropriate, and their statement as to whether fair view: such internal control as they determine is mayinvolve collusion, forgery, intentional they have a reasonable expectation that the necessary to enable the preparation of financial omissions, misrepresentations or the override Group will be able to continue in operation and statements that are free from material misstatement, ofinternalcontrols.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group of their assessment, including any related and parent companys ability to continue as a going 8.
The purpose of our audit work and disclosures, drawing attention to any necessary concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to towhomwe owe our responsibilities qualifications or assumptions.
going concern: and using the going concern basis of This report is made solely to the Companys Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 the viability statement.
We have nothing to report Group or the parent company or to cease operations, of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Corporate governance disclosures Auditors responsibilities required to state to them in an auditors report and We are required to report to you if: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted about whether the financial statements as a whole we have identified material inconsistencies by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to are free from material misstatement, whether due between the knowledge we acquired during anyone other than the Company and the Companys to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, ourfinancial statements audit and the directors members, as a body, for our audit work, for this and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
statement that they consider that the annual report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, report and financial statements taken as a whole but does not guarantee that an audit conducted is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides inaccordance with ISAs UK will always detect a Ian Starkey the information necessary for shareholders to material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements Senior Statutory Auditor assess the Groups position and performance, can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error business model and strategy: or For and on behalf of andare considered material if, individually or in the section of the Annual Report describing KPMG LLP aggregate, they could reasonably be expected thework of the Audit Committee does not Statutory Auditor toinfluence the economic decisions of users taken appropriately address matters communicated onthe basis of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants byus to the Audit Committee.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is 15 Canada Square providedon the FRCs website at www.
uk London, E14 5GL  21 February 2018 Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 141 Financial statements Group accounts Company accounts Preparation 142 16.
Current tax 171 Company statement of comprehensive income 202 Consolidated income statement 144 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 171 Company statement Consolidated statement 18.
Geographical analysis of assets 172 of changes in equity 202 of comprehensive income 145 19.
Loans and overdrafts 172 Company balance sheet 203 Consolidated statement 20.
Trade and other payables 173 of changes in equity 145 Notes to the Company accounts 204 21.
Retirement benefits 174 Consolidated balance sheet 146 22.
Provisions 184 Consolidated cash flow statement 147 23.
Share capital and other reserves 185 1.
M ovement in assets and liabilities 3.
Employees 152 arising from financing activities 188 4.
Trade and other receivables 167 related undertakings 195 13.
Other financial assets and liabilities 168 34.
Adoption of IFRS 15, Revenue fromContracts with Customers 199 14.
Inventories 171 Group accounting policies Accounting policies are included within therelevant note to the Group accounts.
