88 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc 1 Our opinion is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement ofChanges in Equity, Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group Statement of Cash Flows, and the related Notes, including the accounting policies in Note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted bythe European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 May 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fullled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements, including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial 10.0m 2016: 10.0m statements as a whole 6.4% 2016: 20% of normalised Group profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage 100% 2016: 99% of Group profit before tax Risk of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Contract accounting Recoverability of Group goodwill and of parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 89 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identied by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit signicance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Contract accounting 6,103 million 2016: 6,173 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 68 Audit and Risk Committee report, pages 104 and 105 Principal accounting policies Note 2.5 Construction and service contracts and pages 108 and 109 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Note 2.27a Revenue and margin recognition and Note 2.27f Provisions.
Subjective estimate Our response For the majority of its contracts, the Group recognises revenue Using a variety of quantitative and qualitative criteria we selected a and profit on the stage of completion based on the proportion of sample of contracts to assess and challenge the most significant contract costs incurred for the work performed to the balance sheet and complex contract estimates.
We obtained the detailed project date, relative to the estimated total forecast costs of the contract review papers from the Group to support the estimates made and at completion.
challenged the judgements underlying those papers with senior operational, commercial and financial management.
In this area our The recognition of revenue and profit loss therefore rely on audit procedures included: estimates in relation to the forecast total costs of each contract.
Historical comparisons: evaluating the financial performance of Cost contingencies may also be included in these estimates to contracts against budget and historical trends: take account of specic uncertain risks, or disputed claims against the Group, arising within each contract.
These contingencies are Site visits: completing site visits, with the involvement of our reviewed by the Group on a regular basis throughout the contract life industry specialists, to certain higher risk or larger value contracts, and adjusted where appropriate.
physically inspecting the progress on site for individual projects and identifying areas of complexity through observation and The revenue on contracts may also include variations and claims.
discussion with site personnel: Variations and claims are recognised on a contract-by-contract basis when the Groups negotiations have reached a stage such that it is Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the Groups probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount judgement in respect of forecast contract out-turn, contingencies, can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances recoveries from settlements and the recoverability of contract balances via insurers are also included in forecasts where sufficient progress has agreement to third-party certications and conrmations and been made to meet accounting recognition requirements.
In addition with reference to our own assessments, historical outcomes and for certain contracts estimates are made for latent and known defect industry norms: provisions within the warranty period.
Therefore there is a high Customer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence degree of risk and associated management judgement in estimating with customers around variations and claims to challenge the the amount of revenue and associated profit to be recognised by the estimates of claims and variations made by the Group: Group up to the balance sheet date and changes to these estimates Insurer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence could give rise to material variances.
with insurers around recognised insurance claims to challenge managements position taken on the contract: Test of detail: analysing the end of job forecasts on contracts tested and challenging the estimates within the forecasts by considering the amounts already procured, the amounts still to be procured, the site and time related cost forecasts against programme and run rates, and any contingency held: Test of detail: inspecting selected contracts for key clauses: identifying relevant contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, design bonuses, liquidated damages and success fees and assessing whether these key clauses have been appropriately reected in the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Our sector experience: using our sector experience to assess whether the amounts recognised in the financial statements resulting from the estimates and assumptions made represent a balanced view of the risks and opportunities pertinent to the contract working capital positions: Our sector experience: considering whether provisions against contracts sufciently reect the level of risk by challenging the Groups judgement in this area with reference to our own assessments.
Our findings: We considered the amount of revenue and associated profits recognised to be acceptable.
com AR2017 90 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued The risk Recoverability of Group goodwill and of parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Group goodwill, excluding Balfour Beatty Communities US: 825 million 2016: 883 million : Parent Company: amount within total investment in subsidiaries of 1,700 million 2016: 1,698 million Risk vs 2016: Refer to page 68 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 106 Principal accounting policies Note 2.12 Intangible assets, Note2.16 Impairment of assets and Note 2.17 Investments and pages 119 and 120 Note 14 Intangible assets goodwill and page 129 Note19.2Investments Company Forecast-based valuation Our response There is a risk that the goodwill allocated to cash-generating units Our procedures included: CGUs and parent Companys investment in subsidiaries are not Assessing methodology: considering the consistency and recoverable and should be impaired.
Due to the inherent uncertainty appropriateness of the allocation of businesses and related involved in forecasting and discounting future cash ows, which are goodwill balances into CGUs: the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key Sensitivity analysis: performing our own sensitivity analysis, judgement areas for our audit.
including a reasonably possible reduction in assumed growth rates Our risk relates to the goodwill within the Construction Services and margins to identify areas on which to focus our procedures: and Support Services segments and to the parent Companys Our sector experience: considering the underlying assumptions investment in Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd. in determining the cash ows and growth assumptions applied The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment of with reference to historical forecasting accuracy, current order goodwill and investments using a value-in-use model which is book, and wider macro-environment conditions: based on the net present value of the forecast earnings of the Our valuation experience: challenging the assumptions used cash-generating unit.
This is calculated using certain assumptions by the Group in the calculation of the discount rates, including around discount rates, growth rates and cash ow forecasts.
comparisons with external data sources and by involving our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the valuation methodologies used by the Group, as well as the discount rate assumptions applied: Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of theGroups disclosures including disclosure of sensitivity oftheoutcome of the impairment assessment to changes inkey assumptions appropriately reecting the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
We also considered the adequacy ofthe disclosures in respect of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries.
Our findings: We considered the Groups assessment of the recoverability of goodwill in the Group and the parent Companys investment insubsidiaries to be acceptable.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 10.0 million 2016: 10.0 million, determined with reference to the benchmark of Group profit before tax from continuing operations of 156 million normalised to take into account items that are considered one-off or exceptional in the year as disclosed in Note 10 on pages 114 to 116, but not including an adjustment for the amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 9 million, of which it represents 6.4% 2016: 20%.
Due to the volatility in the Groups results in recent financial years, as part of our materiality assessment we also considered the scale of the business, the level of judgement and precision within the Groups key accounting judgements, as well as how the level of materiality compares to other relevant benchmarks such as revenue, of which it represents 0.1% and total assets, of which it represents 0.2%, where they provide more consistent measures year on year than Group profit before tax.
We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected and uncorrected identied misstatements exceeding 0.5 million 2016: 0.5 million in addition to other identied misstatements that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 9.0 million 2016: 9.0 million, determined with reference toa benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.27% 2016: 0.27%.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 91 Scoping and coverage Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets % % % 2 6 5 94 98 95 Full scope audit 2016: 96% Full scope audit 2016: 93% Full scope audit 2016: 94% specified risk-focused audit specified risk-focused audit specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016: 4% procedures 2016: 6% procedures 2016: 6% Of the Groups 16 reporting components 2016: 16, 11 were subject to an audit for Group reporting purposes 2016: 11 and five 2016:two to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
For the residual three components in 2016, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components for which we performed specified risk-focused procedures were not individually nancially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specic individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The specified audit procedures were performed over xed assets one component, inventory one component, provisions two components, contract accounting one component and cash one component.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% 2016: 100% of Group revenue, 100% 2016: 99% of Group profit before tax and 100% 2016: 100% of Group total assets as illustrated above.
The Group operates one shared service centre in Newcastle, United Kingdom, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components it services.
Therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at each reporting component to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared service centre.
The Group audit team instructed components, and the auditors of the shared service centre, as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the components materiality, which ranged from 0.5 million to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and prole of the Group across the components.
The work onthe 11 of the Groups 16 components was performed by the component auditors.
specified risk-focused procedures onfourcomponents, audit of the parent Company, Group consolidation work and procedures on the items excluded from normalised Groupprot before tax were performed by the Group audit team.
In 2017, the Group audit team visited nine components in the United Kingdom, United States and Hong Kong 2016: nine components.
Telephone conference meetings were held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in detail.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 on page 102 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Groups and the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 47 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
com AR2017 92 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued 5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identied material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identied material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors conrmation within the viability statement on page 57 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation thatthe Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 93 7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on pages 74 and 75, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements, including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or inaggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit we considered the impact of laws and regulations in core areas such as financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation, as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries of Directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We communicated identied laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stephen Wardell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 13 March 2018 balfourbeatty.
