Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 105 05 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION IN OUR OPINION: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation We have audited the financial statements of Inmarsat plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated income statement the consolidated statement of comprehensive income the consolidated and parent company balance sheets the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 36 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: accuracy, completeness and occurrence of manual adjustments to airtime revenue accounting for capitalised development expenditure Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was $18.0m which was determined on the basis of a number of relevant benchmarks including EBITDA.
Scoping We have performed full-scope audit procedures for components which contribute 99% of net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes Last year our report included the key audit matter of accounting for the Ligado Cooperation Agreement and Take or Pay revenue in our approach cut-off.
These were not considered to be key audit matters in the year.
In the prior year we determined materiality solely on profit before tax.
10 106 6 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they to report, add or draw attention to in respect considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their of these matters.
identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the to report, add or draw attention to in respect knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of of these matters.
the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 50 to 55 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated the directors' confirmation on page 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity or the directors explanation on page 55 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Last year our report included the key audit matter of accounting for the Ligado Cooperation Agreement.
This is not included in our report this year as the significant judgements relating to the timing of revenue recognition and the quantum of potential future costs were taken by management in previous years and there have been no developments this year which would trigger the need to update these judgements.
Furthermore, last year we included a key audit matter for Take or Pay revenue cut-off which has not been included since there is only one material such contract which is well understood.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts te ments 1 107 07 REVENUE RECOGNITION ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS AND OCCURRENCE OF MANUAL ADJUSTMENTS TO AIRTIME REVENUE Key audit matter Airtime revenue, both subscription and usage-based, is the largest revenue stream within the business.
This revenue principally description relates to I-3 and I-4 services sold on a wholesale and retail basis, along with the resale of capacity from other satellite providers.
Airtime revenue of $799.5m 2016: $822.9m was earned in the year.
Each month manual postings are made to revenue accounts to adjust for items such as deferred revenue, accrued income, sales provisions, bundled transactions and breakage recognised under Take or Pay agreements to ensure revenue recognition meets the requirements of IAS 18 Revenue.
Due to the highly material nature of airtime revenue, the high volume of transactions and the inherent risk that manual postings are susceptible to manipulation, a significant risk, whether due to fraud or error, has been identified that if these postings are not accurate, complete or related to transactions which have occurred.
The accounting policy for the recognition of revenue is set out in note 2 to the financial statements and includes the policies on the deferral of revenue and multiple-element contracts.
Refer to page 72 where this is included as a significant matter in the Audit Committee report.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of the key automated and manual audit responded to the controls relating to the recognition of airtime revenue across the Groups principal billing systems.
This included evaluating key audit matter the design and implementation of controls and testing the migration of data associated with managements implementation of a new billing system.
We have met with management, both from within finance and in the market-facing business to discuss results in each business unit and as a whole to gain an understanding of significant trends and transactions and to inform our substantive testing.
We have tested the mechanical accuracy of the underlying schedules for a sample of manual postings to determine their completeness and accuracy and whether they are prepared consistently with the principles of IAS 18.
Additionally, we performed a monthly profit margin analysis by product and a monthly revenue trend analysis, corroborating and understanding unusual variances.
Further, we used subscriber numbers, usage reports and pricing information in order to develop an independent expectation of airtime revenue by product type to compare to airtime revenue recognised in order to assess the completeness, accuracy and occurrence of recorded revenue and to respond to the risk of fraud or error.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory.
We identified no misstatements in manual adjustments to airtime revenue required in relation to our substantive audit work which required reporting to the Audit Committee.
10 108 8 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED ACCOUNTING FOR CAPITALISED DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Key audit matter The Group capitalised significant internal labour costs, external costs and qualifying borrowing costs in respect of major capital description projects, most notably relating to satellite programmes and associated infrastructure such as the Global Xpress programme, European Aviation Network and Inmarsat-6 fleet of satellites.
There is a significant risk, whether due to fraud or error, in respect of valuation and allocation of assets, that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs are inappropriately recorded on the balance sheet rather than expensed or that costs continue to be held on the balance sheet despite no longer meeting the relevant capitalisation criteria.
The Groups policy on the capitalisation of assets is included in note 2 to the financial statements.
As shown in note 13 to the financial statements, property, plant and equipment of $599.5m was capitalised in the year, of which $174.9m relates to space segment assets and $351.6m relates to assets in the course of construction.
As shown in note 14 to the financial statements, intangible assets of $76.0m were capitalised in the year.
As disclosed in note 9 to the financial statement, capitalised borrowing costs totalled $40.2m in the year.
Refer to page 73 where this is included as a significant matter in the Audit Committee report.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of the processes and procedures which govern audit responded to the the capitalisation of development costs.
key audit matter We have met the project leaders for the most financially significant capital projects, which account for 89% of current year capital expenditure, to corroborate the project status, feasibility of completion, and performance against budget, including investigation of any deviations from budget.
This process enabled us to focus on projects we considered to have a higher risk of misstatement.
In addition, we have carried out sample-based testing in relation to each element of capitalised costs including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the costs capitalised, understanding the nature of these costs and considering whether they meet the capitalisation requirements of IAS 16 and IAS 38.
We reviewed the ageing profile of assets in the course of construction, to determine whether the ongoing technical feasibility and intended completion of the project could be demonstrated.
For a sample of assets which entered service in the period we inspected supporting evidence to determine whether depreciation was commenced at a time in accordance with IAS 16.
In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations and verified the inputs to the calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments.
Additionally, we tested the mechanical accuracy of the model and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised and accounting is therefore in line with the requirements of IAS 23.
In relation to internal labour costs capitalised we carried out sample-based testing which included tracing to approved timesheets and testing the daily rates applied.
Key observations We identified a number of deficiencies in key controls within the capital expenditure cycle, which were reported to the Audit Committee.
As a consequence, we determined we would not test the operating effectiveness of controls in this area.
Our audit testing was completed satisfactorily, and we concur with the judgements management has taken in determining that capital assets meet the capitalisation criteria of IAS 16, IAS 23 and IAS 38.
We did not identify any audit adjustments that warranted reporting to the Audit Committee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts te ments 1 109 09 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality $18.0m 2016: $16.7m for the Group.
$15.7m 2016: $14.5m for the parent company financial statements.
Basis for determining We determined materiality using a range of forecast benchmarks and this represented 2.5% of EBITDA, 1.3% of revenue and 7.6% materiality of profit before tax adjusted to remove the volatility described above.
Last year, materiality was based solely on profit before tax and represented 6% of actual profit before tax.
EBITDA is reconciled to statutory profit before tax on page 39.
Parent company materiality was determined based on a benchmark of profit before tax but was then capped at the highest level of component materiality.
Rationale for the We consider the use of a number of benchmarks in determining materiality to be appropriate since a number of measures are benchmark applied relevant to the users of the financial statements, including EBITDA.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $900,000 2016: $825,000 for the group and the parent company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work performed in the following locations: London, United Kingdom St. Johns, Canada Reston, United States With the exception of one specific part of the U. S. Government business, where we used a component audit team, we performed the Group audit with one integrated audit team led from London.
The supervision of the audit team included the London team visiting the members of the audit team located in St. Johns and Reston.
We determined there to be three components in the Group, as follows: The core Inmarsat business unit headquartered in London with operations also in St. Johns The U. S. Government retail business in Reston and Non-core entities, which include Inmarsat Australia Pty Ltd, based in Sydney, Australia The U. S. Government retail business and non-core entities are considered to be separate components as they had a separate financial control environment during the year.
The core Inmarsat and U. S. Government components were subject to a full scope audit, whilst limited procedures were performed on the non-core component due to its relative financial significance.
The components subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business units and account for 99.8% 2016: 99.9% of the Groups net assets, 99.0% 2016: 99.7% of the Groups revenue and 98.8% 2016: 99.4% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than the Group materiality and ranged from $5.4m to $15.7m 2016: $5.0m to $15.0m.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited the U. S. Government component in the prior year.
For this component we involved the component audit partner and manager in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
1 110 10 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in respect of included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts te ments 111 111 REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS AUDITOR TENURE Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 12 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2017.
CONSISTENCY OF THE AUDIT REPORT WITH THE ADDITIONAL REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
PAUL FRANEK FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 9 March 2018
