Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 99 Independent auditors report to the members of OneSavings Bank plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor on 28 May 2010.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 8.25 financial years We have audited the financial statements of ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical OneSavings Bank plc the Bank for the year ended responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including Statement of Profit or Loss, the Consolidated the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard Consolidated and Bank Statements of Financial were provided.
Position, the Consolidated and Bank Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Bank Overview Statements of Cash Flows, and the related notes, Materiality: 6.4m 2016: 5.2m including the accounting policies in note 1. group financial 4% 2016: 4% of group profit statements as before tax In our opinion: a whole the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys Coverage 100% 2016:100% of group profit affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups before tax profit for the year then ended: Risks of material misstatement the Group financial statements have been properly vs 2016 prepared in accordance with International Financial Recurring risks Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Recognition of revenue the parent Company financial statements have on organic and acquired loans been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Loan impairment as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
N 100 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material E misstatement B C F Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional A judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the O financial statements and include the most significant assessed D risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud K identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect G H on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in I M the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
L We summarise on the following pages the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to J address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters Likelihood of material misstatement were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, Loan impairment including Use of third parties for loan our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming A I forborne loans book servicing our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recognition of revenue on organic Valuation of investments B J and acquired loans in subsidiaries Our assessment of the Groups, and the Banks, significant risks was the starting point for our audit.
This considered both Management override of controls IT environment and effectiveness C K internal and external risks to the Groups business model and risk required by ISAs of general IT controls how these have been mitigated.
The internal factors considered were: Valuation of treasury and Legal, compliance and regulatory D Control environment we considered the Groups control L hedge accounting developments environment and in particular whether its systems were processing transactions completely and faithfully, and Financial reporting and Going concern risk and included appropriate controls designed to prevent fraud: and E M robustness of reporting processes longer term viability Capital and liquidity we considered the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity position, the diversification of assets, the flexibility and composition of its balance sheet and Risk of fraudulent transactions Disposal of Rochester F N the management of its cost base.
securitisation vehicle 2016 only Business activity we assessed the risk in relation to recognition of revenue on acquired books to have decreased Uncertain economic outlook G Recoverability of deferred tax assets O due to there being no new loan books purchased in the year.
The external factors considered were: Accounting for executive H compensation scheme Economic changes we considered the audit risk in relation to loan impairment to have been increased by the impact on Risks of greater signicance assessed below the economy of the results of the EU referendum, given the Other financial statement audit risks Groups exposure to properties in London and the South East, significant risk as required by the International Standards on Auditing and the recent Bank of England base rate change, which introduces unpredictability of forecasting in comparison to the previously benign market.
Political and regulatory changes the regulatory and tax changes in the buy-to-let market, together with the greater competition in this market, have introduced greater uncertainty Consistent with 2016, we are of the view that the recognition over the expected remaining lives of current buy-to-let of revenue on organic and acquired loans and loan impairment lending.
As in the prior year, due to the Market developments increasing levels of competition in similarity in the underlying principles of revenue recognition the market, and the advancement of technological solutions on acquired loans, EIR on organic loans and amortisation of and platformisation, including the upcoming changes from the fair value hedge asset, we have continued to assess these Open Banking.
as one key audit matter below.
As described on pages 74 to 76 these are also areas that have been focused on by the We first considered these in June 2017, and refreshed our Groups Audit Committee.
assessments through our half year review and year end audit.
That consideration includes conversations not only with the Given the proportion of the Group that the Bank comprises, Group, and ongoing knowledge gained through reading and the fact that the Bank is the main trading entity of the pertinent information, but also reflected the views of the Group, we have considered the Bank and Group significant Prudential Regulatory Authority, market analysts, specialists risk areas to be the same.
within our firm, and peer comparisons.
The final result of our risk consideration is shown in the table.
Potential impact on financial statements Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 101 Recognition of revenue on organic and acquired loans 332.7 million: 2016: 309.5 million Refer to pages 75 and 76 Audit Committee Report, page 113 accounting policy and page 124 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Group and Parent For organic loans our procedures included: Subjective estimate: Methodology implementation: We tested the consistency The effective interest rate calculation, which uses relevant of methodology and application across the loan portfolios interest rates, fees and transaction costs, incorporates owned by the Group: assumptions around loan expected lives driven by estimations Test of details: We tested the accuracy of data inputs from of loan repayment profiles.
Forecast loan repayment profiles the mortgage systems into the effective interest rate models, also underpin the amortisation of the fair value hedge asset.
In including interest rates and product lives: the case of acquired credit impaired mortgages and loans, We compared the observed repayment profiles of loans additional variables such as the purchase price and estimated originated by the Bank to the assumed repayment profiles recoverable values of the loans are also used.
and assessed the quantitative impact of variations noted: Sensitivity analysis: We performed stress testing analysis Originated assets on the assumptions noted above: The directors apply judgement in deciding and assessing the expected repayment profiles used to determine the EIR period.
Independent reperformance: We checked the mathematical The most critical element of judgement in this area is the accuracy of models through re-performance of the model estimation of the future redemption profiles of the loans, which is calculations, and tested that the effective interest rates used informed by product mix and past customer behaviour of when within the monthly interest calculations agreed to the models: loans are repaid.
and Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of Due to the relatively low levels of historical organic lending in the Groups disclosures in respect of the degree of estimation comparison to the significant recent growth, the Group has involved in arriving at the revenue recognised.
limited information available from which to assess trends in prepayment, redemption and product transfers, resulting in In addition, for acquired loans we also performed the following: increased subjectivity to these assumptions, as detailed patterns Historical comparisons: We performed regression testing of customer behaviour have not been clearly established from to assess any significant deviations from the original forecast which to estimate future customer behaviour and performance.
cash flows: Acquired loan portfolios Assessing forecasts: We considered whether any catch For the Groups acquired debt portfolio, the risk is that estimated up adjustments were required on portfolios where the future cash collections are not reflected by actual cash receipts.
repayment profile actual cash flow experience had differed Estimation of future cash collections requires significant from that originally predicted.
For those loans where catch up judgement to make assumptions about the value, probability and adjustments have been recorded, we assessed the timing of expected future cash flows for each type of asset class appropriateness of the payment assumptions used in the within a portfolio.
forecast cash flow calculations, by comparing to payment rates previously experienced: For acquired loan portfolios, any change in the repayment profile Control operations: We visited each of the servicers for the results in the discount received or premium paid on purchase of mortgage books where these were not administered by the the portfolio to be adjusted through a catch up adjustment and Group to test the relevant controls over the recording of loan spread over the revised expected life.
balances and interest at these entities: and Data capture: We performed sample testing to assess the As further portfolios are purchased by the Group, there is a need accuracy and consistency of the information provided by the to assess the consistency and accuracy of the effective interest servicer companies to the Group and that this was rate calculations across the individual models.
appropriately captured in the models.
A number of the acquired portfolios are serviced by third parties, leading to data inputs from a number of sources.
This increases We tested the amortisation of the fair value hedge asset the risk that the loan and repayment data used in the model is through: inaccurate.
Assessing forecasts: We considered whether any catch up adjustments were required to the amortisation where the Fair value hedge asset actual cash flow experience had differed from the repayment The fair value hedge asset relating to the legacy back book profile originally predicted and determined whether the mortgages matched to interest rate swaps prior to their correct amounts had been recognised.
cancellation is being amortised in line with the estimated expected future cash flows at the point of cancellation, driven by Our results the assumed future redemption profile of the mortgages.
Where As a result of our work we found the level of revenue recognised this redemption profile subsequently differs from the expectation to be acceptable 2016: acceptable at the time of cancellation there is a risk that the amortisation profile may not be correctly adjusted to reflect this change.
102 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Loan impairment 21.6 million: 2016: 25.0 million Refer to pages 74 and 75 Audit Committee Report, pages 115 and 116 accounting policy and pages 134 and 135 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Group and Parent For loans assessed for specific impairment, our procedures Subjective estimate: included: This is a key judgemental area due to the level of subjectivity Test of details: We tested the completeness of the loans inherent in estimating the recoverability of loan balances, identified by the Group as high risk through a consideration of compounded by the fact that lower levels of lending historically all loans for risk factors such as magnitude, arrears and have provided the Group with limited historical experience to previous loan restructures: use in predicting the likelihood of loans falling into arrears.
We agreed the key data inputs to third party documentation: namely projected selling price and costs to valuation reports, Individual impairment the Group identifies individual rental income to tenancy agreements and discount rates to mortgage loan cases for a specific impairment assessment the interest rate of the loan: based on the current level of arrears and nature of the loan.
The Sensitivity analysis: We stress tested the collateral individual impairment requirement for the loan is determined valuations, time to sale and discount rates to assess the based on estimated future cash flows discounted to present sensitivity of the provision to these assumptions: and value at the rate inherent in the loan.
This is a highly manual Independent reperformance: We re-performed the process, with a number of data inputs and assumptions including impairment provision calculation for a sample of loans, the cost of obtaining and selling the repossessed property, utilising the outcome of our testing of the data inputs and probable sale proceeds and any rental income prior to sale.
Collective impairment an assessment is performed collectively on all other loans for impairment, with the key For loans assessed collectively for impairment: assumptions being: Methodology choice: We assessed the methodology used the probability of an account falling into arrears and by the Group to calculate the propensity of accounts with subsequently defaulting, different arrears profiles to fall into and out of default, and the market valuations of any collateral provided, considered the consistency of the probabilities of default and the emergence periods with the limited historical internal data the emergence period for losses, and available: the estimated time and cost to sell any collateral property Test of detail: We agreed the data inputs in the model to the repossessed by the Group.
mortgage data system and third party reports: Our sector experience: We critically assessed the The assumptions noted above differ across the Groups loan assumptions inherent in the model against our understanding portfolios of residential lending comprising first charge, second of the different loan portfolios across the Group, their recent charge and shared ownership lending, Buy-To-Let and SME performance and industry developments: lending, development finance, and personal loans, which reflects the diverse nature of lending performed by the Group and Independent reperformance: We recalculated the different characteristics of each book.
probability of default rates based on the Groups actual historical experience.
We also re-performed the collective There is a risk that the overall provision is not reflective of the impairment model calculations based on the outcome of the incurred losses at the end of the period due to changes in testing of key assumptions to assess the overall validity of the customer credit quality resulting in unrepresentative probabilities assumptions used in the collective impairment assessment: of default, the period of time assumed that it takes for incurred Sensitivity analysis: We stress tested the collateral losses to emerge, or other market factors not sufficiently valuations, forced sales discount, and time and costs to sell incorporated into the model, such as house prices.
Given the the collateral being the expected recovery on sale of the relatively young nature of these loan books, which result in property to assess the sensitivity of the impairment provision limited historical information, and sensitivity of the impairment to these assumptions: assessments to these assumptions, there is increased risk that Historical comparisons: We considered the accuracy of actual experience may differ from the Groups current previous estimates of the collective provision against the expectations.
current book arrears profile and losses incurred in the year: Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 103 Loan impairment continued The risk Our response Increased lending in recent years has been at a time of For all loans: historically low interest rates, which may distort customer Control operations: We tested the design, implementation behaviour and loss experience data for use in future assumptions, and operating effectiveness of key controls over the particularly if interest rates were to increase in coming years.
monitoring and reporting of loans and advances to customers: Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the provision The Group implements a number of forbearance procedures on coverage rates and the Groups assumptions such as forced selected loans in arrears, such as restructuring of a loan or sale discounts, emergence period and costs to sell collateral capitalisation of arrears balances.
As this is a manual process, rates against other similar institutions to assess both the level there is the risk that these measures are not appropriately taken of the impairment provision in comparison to industry norms into consideration when calculating the required provisions, as and the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions used: the apparent improvement in the arrears on the loans could Assessing application: We monitored credit trends in the result in a lower impairment provision if the loans are not portfolio over the year, to assess whether emerging trends identified as forborne.
are reflected in the provision level: Methodology implementation: We checked that Data capture: forbearance activity is accurately reflected in the impairment The collective impairment model uses a combination of static provision calculation by checking that for each forborne loan, e. g. original collateral valuations and dynamic data e. g. current the uplift to the propensity to default assumption in the balances and interest rates about the Groups loans as well as collective impairment assessment was appropriately applied: from external sources e. g. house price index tables to derive indexed collateral valuations.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Group disclosures in relation to the degree of estimation Owing to the majority of the acquired portfolios being serviced involved in arriving at the provisions: by third parties, the collective provision calculation requires data Data comparison: We checked a sample of the internal data inputs from a number of different sources, increasing the risk and the data totals used in the models back to the Groups that data included in the models is inaccurate.
We also checked the external inputs used by the Group such as house price indices to external sources: Control operations: We visited each of the servicers for the mortgage books where these were not administered by the Group to test the relevant controls over the recording of loan balances and arrears status of loans at these entities: and Data capture: We performed sample testing to assess the accuracy and consistency of the information provided by the servicer companies to the Group.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the provision for loan impairment to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
104 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the profit before tax scope of our audit Group materiality 159.0m 2016: 129.2m 6.4m 2016: 5.2m Materiality 6.4 million Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was Whole financial statements set at 6.4 million, determined with reference to a benchmark materiality 2016: 5.2m of group profit before tax, of which it represents 4% 2016: 4% of profit before tax adjusted to remove the exceptional profit 4.1 million on disposal of Rochester Financing No1 plc.
Performance materiality to respond to aggregation risk 2016: 3.4m Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 4.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company profit before tax, of which it represents 4%.
This figure represents 3% of Group profit before tax.
0.3 million Misstatements reported to the PBT Group materiality audit committee 2016: 0.3m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope Group In 2017, as in 2016, the Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information, completing testing over the Interbay, Prestige and OSBIndia components, and visiting the Prestige and Interbay client offices.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
Scope disclosure of IFRS 9 effect The Group is adopting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018 and have included an estimate of the financial impact of the change in accounting standard in accordance with IAS 8 Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors as set out in note 1.
While further testing of the financial impact will be performed as part of our 2018 year end audit, we have performed sufficient audit procedures for the purposes of assessing the disclosures made in accordance with IAS 8.
We spent considerable time assessing the key areas of judgement inherent in the IFRS 9 transition which supports our assessment of the appropriateness of the disclosure but also supports our 2018 year end audit.
Specifically we have: Considered the appropriateness of key technical decisions, judgements, assumptions and elections made by management Considered key Classification and Measurement decisions, including Business Model Assessments and Solely Payment of Principal and Interest SPPI outcomes Risk rated key credit models to determine our level of work and considered credit risk modelling decisions and macroeconomic variables, including forward economic guidance and generation of multiple economic scenarios Considered key data flows, transitional controls and governance processes related to the approval of the estimated transitional impact.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 105 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed We are required to report to you if: and mitigated: and we have anything material to add or draw attention to in the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what statements on the use of the going concern basis of period they have done so and why they considered that accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they approval of the financial statements: or fall due over the period of their assessment, including any the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary page 97 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the viability 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Annual Report Corporate governance disclosures The directors are responsible for the other information We are required to report to you if: presented in the Annual Report together with the financial we have identified material inconsistencies between the statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not knowledge we acquired during our financial statements cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not audit and the Directors statement that they consider that express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in Groups position and performance, business model and doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements strategy: or audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
material misstatements in the other information.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Strategic report and Directors report Report does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 Based solely on our work on the other information: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified We have not identified material misstatements in the by the Listing Rules for our review.
strategic report and the Directors report: In our opinion, the information given in those reports for the We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in we are required to report by exception accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Directors remuneration report adequate accounting records have not been kept by the In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration Report to be parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the been received from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006. the parent company financial statements and the part of the Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial the accounting records and returns: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by attention to in relation to: law are not made: or the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on we have not received all the information and explanations page 49 that they have carried out a robust assessment of we require for our audit.
the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, We have nothing to report in these respects.
solvency and liquidity: 106 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7.
Respective responsibilities We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of nonDirectors responsibilities compliance throughout the audit.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 98, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection financial statements including being satisfied that they give a of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements internal controls.
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, responsibilities matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies no realistic alternative but to do so.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Auditors responsibilities required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not whether the financial statements as a whole are free from accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement Pamela McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor irregularities or error and are considered material if, Chartered Accountants individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be 15 Canada Square expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken London on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not E14 5GL detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, 15 March 2018 as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
uk  Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital and liquidity and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities and its legal form.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
