Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of BP p. l. c. which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2017.
Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017.
Group income statement for the year then ended.
Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Group cash flow statement for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 36 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards including FRS 101 United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 57 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 113 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 114 in the annual report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 114 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
116 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and in directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee The determination of the liabilities, contingent For the liabilities and contingent liabilities related to There remains liabilities and disclosures arising from the Gulf of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill the primary audit uncertainty around the Mexico oil spill as described on page 79 of the report engagement team performed the following audit BEL provision, in of the audit committee and Note 2 of the financial procedures.
claims and claims under We walked through and tested the controls appeal, as the amounts There is particular uncertainty around estimating and designed and operated by the group relating to the payable may differ from valuing the remaining outstanding business economic provisions and payables for the Gulf of Mexico oil those provided.
The determination of the liability is subject spill.
to judgement as to the amount that each remaining Based on our procedures We met with the groups legal team to understand claim will be settled at.
we are satisfied that the developments across key remaining Gulf of Mexico amounts provided in the oil spill matters and their status.
The total amount recognized as an increase in financial statements, as We reviewed audit enquiry response letters from provisions in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill disclosed in Note 2 of external legal counsel and read determinations and during the year was $2,647 million relating to business the financial statements, judgements made by the courts.
economic loss BEL and other claims associated with are supported by claims In respect of the provision for the outstanding the Court Supervised Settlement Program 'CSSP'.
The increase is predominantly a result of significantly business economic loss claims: higher average BEL claims determinations issued by We compared the key assumptions that have the CSSP during the fourth quarter and the continuing been used in the determination of the year end effect arising from the Policy 495 ruling.
The remaining provision, to historical experience.
provision as at 31 December 2017 was $2,580 million.
We reconciled the number of undetermined claims to third party claims management data.
We performed a detailed review of the status and expected outcome of the significant claims within appeals, which included discussion with the group general counsel.
We performed sensitivity analyses over average cost per claim assumptions and assessed the potential effect on the provision.
We considered events that took place after the balance sheet date and before the issuance of this report and ensured these were reflected appropriately.
We assessed the remaining economic loss and property damage claims from individuals and businesses that either opted out of the Plaintiffs Steering Committee 'PSC' settlement and or were excluded from that settlement.
We validated a sample of claims to third party data, assessing the year end closing payable was appropriate.
We considered the accounting treatment of the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures under IFRS criteria, to conclude whether these were appropriate in all circumstances.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 117 Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee The estimate of oil and gas reserves and resources Our procedures were performed by team members Based on our procedures has a significant impact on the financial with significant experience of the process of we consider that the statements, particularly impairment testing and estimating oil and gas reserves and resources, reserves estimations are depreciation, depletion and amortization DD&A including the primary audit engagement team and reasonable for use in the charges as described on page 80 of the report of the component teams at 9 Upstream components.
impairment testing and audit committee and Note 1 of the financial calculation of DD&A.
We confirmed our understanding and tested key management controls related to the reserves and The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and resources estimation process.
This included resources is a significant area of judgement due to the management's review and approval of estimated technical uncertainty in assessing quantities and volumes.
complex contractual arrangements dictating the groups share of reportable volumes.
We tested the controls over the group's certification process for internal technical and Reserves and resources are also a fundamental commercial experts who are responsible for indicator of the future potential of the groups reserves and resources estimation.
We assessed the competence and objectivity of the groups internal and external experts, to satisfy ourselves that these parties are appropriate in their roles within the estimation process.
We confirmed that significant changes in reserves and resources were made in the appropriate period, and were in compliance with BP's discovered resources management policy DRM and SEC regulations.
Where reserve and resources volumes have a material impact on the financial statements, we validated these volumes and assumptions against underlying information and documentation as required by the DRM.
We validated that the updated reserves and resources estimates were included appropriately in the groups consideration of oil and gas asset impairment valuations and in accounting for DD&A.
Unauthorized trading activity within the integrated Audit procedures on trading activities were performed Based on our procedures supply and trading function has the potential to by component teams and the primary engagement we identified no matters impact revenue and profits as described within the team at 7 components across the UK, US and to report to the Audit group's principal risks on page 58 and Note 1 of the Singapore.
We walked through and tested the controls Unauthorized trading activity is a fraud risk associated designed and operated by the group over with a potential deliberate misstatement of the groups unauthorized trading activity.
trading positions or mis-marking of positions with an We identified trades with the highest risk of intention to: unauthorized activity so as to focus our testing on these trades.
We performed existence and completeness testing Maximize trading profits.
by independently confirming a sample of trades Understate profits or move profits to subsequent with third parties.
periods when bonus ceilings have already been We verified the fair value of a sample of derivatives reached, to maximize individual bonuses across using contract and external market prices.
derivative instruments where observable market These acts would lead to a misstatement of the data is not available we have independently groups revenue and profits.
validated the internal valuation models management used to determine fair value.
We tested the completeness of the amounts recorded in the financial statements through performing procedures to detect unrecorded liabilities as well as detailed cut-off procedures around sales, purchases, trade receivables and trade payables.
118 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee US Tax Reform as described on page 81 of the report Audit procedures were performed by team members Based on the audit of the Audit committee and Note 1 of the financial and EY tax experts with significant experience of the procedures specifically statements.
designed and performed to respond to the impact On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act We verified that the internal controls over financial of US tax reform on the TCJA was signed into law, enacting widespread reporting were designed appropriately to enable group, we concluded changes to US fiscal law.
the accounting implications of US tax reform to be that managements accurately recorded in the financial statements.
computation of the tax The group recognized a one-off taxation charge of $0.9 We assessed the tax accounting implications on accounting assessments billion for the year ended 31 December 2017, in respect existing deferred tax assets and liabilities based on and adjustments is of the remeasurement of deferred tax balances as a the enacted 21% corporate rate.
We tested and calculated in compliance result of the reduction in the US federal corporate confirmed that the methodology used by with IAS 12.
The income tax rate from 35% to 21%.
management to calculate the estimated liability appropriate presentation We focused on this area due to the complexity and was based on an acceptable interpretation of the and disclosures are extent of the US tax reform package, the requirement TCJA legislation.
made in the financial for the group to determine and account for the effects We verified the analysis performed by statements at 31 of the change close to its year end and the material management to determine the appropriate December 2017. impact on the groups profit for the year.
presentation, in accordance with IAS 12, of the impact of tax changes recorded through the Due to the nature and income statement and statement of other circumstances around comprehensive income.
US tax reform, the presentation of the $0.9 We performed procedures to evaluate billion charge as a nonmanagements assessment of other key US tax operating item is reform changes which may affect the groups 2017 appropriately disclosed.
income tax position, including the one-time transition tax, anti-base erosion measures and expected realization of foreign tax credits.
Changes from the prior year Our risk assessment and audit approach evolve as circumstances which impact the groups business or financial statements change.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the macroeconomic environment at the time which had the potential to materially impact the carrying value of the Group Upstreams non-current assets.
This risk has been downgraded in 2017.
In our view, the macroeconomic environment no longer represents a significant risk for our audit, given the fact that the impairment indicators identified in 2016 have subsided through 2017, mainly as a result of sustained increases in oil prices.
In the current year, our auditors report includes a key audit matter in relation to US Tax Reform due to the matters set out above.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organization of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
In scoping the audit we reflect the groups structure Upstream, Downstream, Rosneft and Other businesses and corporate, plus the groups functions.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we performed full or specific scope audit procedures over 55 components covering the UK, US, Abu Dhabi, Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Egypt, Germany, India, Russia, Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago and the group functions, representing the principal business units within the group.
Of the 55 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 9 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 46 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 30% of the groups profit before tax 2016 29%, 42% of the groups revenue 2016 41% and 10% of the groups property, plant and equipment 2016 10%.
The specific scope components contributed 32% of the groups profit before tax 2016 32%, 30% of the groups revenue 2016 26% and 52% of the groups property, plant and equipment 2016 54%.
The audit scope of the specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the group.
Of the 46 specific scope components, we instructed 14 of these locations to perform specified procedures over goodwill, intangible assets, the carrying value of certain investments held by the group, gain on sale of businesses and fixed assets, interest and other income, exploration expenses, sales and other operating revenues and production taxes.
The remaining components not subject to full or specific group scoping are not significant individually or in the aggregate.
They include many small, low risk components and balances: each remaining component represents an average of 0.13% of the total group profit before tax and 0.13% of total group revenue.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including evaluating and testing managements group wide controls across a range of geographies and segments, specifically testing the oversight and review controls that management has in place to ensure there are no material misstatements in these locations.
We performed analytical and enquiry procedures to address the risk of residual misstatement on a segment-wide and component basis.
We tested consolidation journals to identify the existence of any further risks of misstatement that could have been material to the group financial statements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 119 Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 9 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 5 of these directly by the primary audit engagement team.
For the 46 specific scope components, audit procedures were performed on 24 of these directly by the primary audit engagement team.
Testing of managements group wide controls was performed by component auditors.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group as a whole.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits significant locations to ensure the audit is executed and delivered in accordance with the planned approach and to confirm the quality of the audit work undertaken.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit engagement team to the component teams in Abu Dhabi, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Germany, India, Russia, Singapore, the UK and the US.
Part of the purpose of these visits is to confirm that appropriate procedures have been performed by the auditors of the components and that the significant audit areas were covered as communicated in the detailed audit instructions, including the risks of material misstatement as outlined above.
The primary audit engagement team review included examining key working papers and conclusions where these related to areas of management and auditor judgement with specific focus on the risks detailed above.
The primary audit engagement team also participated in the component teams planning, during visits made earlier in the audit period.
Telephone and video meetings were held with the auditors at locations which the primary audit engagement team did not visit in person.
This, together with additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the group financial statements.
One of the significant locations is Russia, which includes Rosneft, a material associate not controlled by BP.
We were provided with appropriate access to Rosnefts auditor in order to ensure they had completed the procedures required by ISA UK 600 on the financial statements of Rosneft, used as the basis for BPs equity accounting.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be $0.5 billion 2016 $0.5 billion.
For the 2017 audit, we deemed it appropriate to determine our materiality based on 5% of the group's underlying replacement cost profit as defined on page 293 before interest and taxation for 2017.
Due to the recovery and stability in oil and gas prices through 2017 we no longer view it as necessary to determine materiality based on normalizing current year expected underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation and how those results would look if oil and gas prices forecast by the company for 2018 and 2019 had prevailed in the year.
Underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation remains the most appropriate measure upon which to calculate materiality, due to the fact it excludes the impact of changes in crude oil, gas and product prices and items disclosed as non-operating items, which can significantly distort the groups results in a given period.
For details of non-operating items please see page 250 of the Annual Report and Form20-F 2017.
We determined materiality for our audit of the standalone parent company financial statements to be $1,300 million 2016 $1,300 million, which is 1% 2016 1% of equity.
The materiality determined for the standalone parent company financial statements exceeds the group materiality as it is determined on a different basis given the nature of the operations.
For the purposes of the audit of the group financial statements, our procedures, including those on balances in the parent company, are undertaken with reference to the group materiality and performance materiality set out in this report.
During the course of our audit, we re-assessed initial materiality in the context of the groups performance and forward expectations and this resulted in no change from our original assessment of materiality.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016 75% of our materiality, namely $375 million 2016 $375 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $75 million to $300 million 2016 $75 million to $281 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $25 million 2016 $25 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
120 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 114 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 77-83 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 113 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006, UK Corporate Governance Code and US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 121 amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations as disclosed within Regulation of the groups business on pages 265-270 and International trade sanctions on pages 273-274.
We understood how the group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the group general counsel.
We corroborated our enquiries through the attendance at meetings held by the audit, disclosure and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees.
We designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraph above.
As well as enquiry and attendance at meetings, our procedures involved a review of the reporting to the above committees and a review of board meetings and other committee minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence management to manage earnings and revenue by overriding internal controls.
We considered the controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those controls.
We performed specific procedures to respond to the fraud risk of unauthorized trading as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
Our procedures also included testing a risk-based sample of manual journals that may have been posted with the intention of overriding internal controls to manipulate earnings.
These procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
The group operates in the oil and gas industry which is a highly regulated environment.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of an expert where appropriate.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 17 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is over 100 years, covering the year ended 1909 to the year ended 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
John C. Flaherty Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst& Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 29March2018 This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
122 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
