Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Our opinion on the Financial Statements of TP ICAP plc is unmodified.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of TP ICAP plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law the Consolidated Balance Sheet: andIFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the related Consolidated Financial Statement Notes 1 to 38: preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable the Parent Company Balance Sheet: law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, includingFRS 101 the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted the related Parent Company Notes 1 to 9.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the FinancialStatements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Name Passing revenue: impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: finalisation of the provisional accounting for the ICAP acquisition: and presentation and disclosure of Cost Improvement Programme CIP and integration related items.
Our key audit matters are consistent with the key risks identified in the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 9.6m which was determined with reference to underlying profit before tax.
Scoping Our Group audit scope focused primarily on eight locations with 30 subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit.
The subsidiaries selected for a full scope audit or an audit of specified account balances represent the principal business units within each of the Groups operating segments.
These subsidiaries account for 99% of the Groups total assets, 98% of the Groups total liabilities, 88% of the Groups revenue and 85% of the Groups expenses.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes to our audit approach compared to prior year.
com 96 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 d to the Consolidated Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in to in respect of these matters.
preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent material to add or draw attention with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in to in respect of these matters.
the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 38 to 41 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 38 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Name Passing revenue Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on page 110 and the business model on page 5.
Key audit matter description Name Passing revenue is earned for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments.
The Group is not a counterparty to the trade and commissions that are invoiced for the service provided by the Group.
It accounts for a majority of the Groups broking revenue.
As invoices for services provided are not issued until the end of each month, the cash collection period is typically longer than for Matched Principal revenue.
The risk of misstatement of revenue increases due to potential fraud or error where the invoice becomes past due or where post year-end trade adjustments or credit notes arise.
How the scope of our audit responded We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to Name Passing to the key audit matter invoicing and cash collection.
We confirmed a sample of trades to cash received throughout the year.
We agreed a further sample of Name Passing transactions, which were outstanding at year-end, to cash received post year-end.
We tested the aged debtor analysis through re-performance and, focusing on higher risk aged items, we confirmed that revenue recognised on each transaction was supportable by obtaining evidence to corroborate the validity of the underlying trade and reviewing communications with counterparties.
We tested a sample of post year-end trade adjustments and credit notes to evaluate whether these items were accurate and valid.
We assessed the recognition of Name Passing revenue to ensure it was in line with the Groups accounting policy.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 97 Key observations Our testing of the effectiveness of internal controls over Name Passing invoicing and cash collection identified no issues.
During 2017 the Group continued to implement improvements in controls over trade amendments.
As the improved controls were not in place throughout the year and did not operate for all broking desks, we performed additional substantive testing of trade amendments.
No issues were identified from this testing.
No issues were identified through our detailed testing of cash receipts and aged debtors.
We determined the recognition of Name Passing revenue to be appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policy on page 110.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on page 110, accounting estimates and judgements on page 116, the intangible assets arising on consolidation Note on page 124 and the other intangible assets Note on page 125.
Key audit matter description As required by IAS 36, goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Determining whether the goodwill of 1,052m, other intangible assets arising on consolidation of 590m and other intangible assets of 69m are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, using the higher of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value less costs to sell approach was used to assess the recoverable amount of all CGUs.
Both an income and market approach were used to estimate the fair value less costs to sell valuation.
The income approach discounts expected future cash flows and requires the selection of suitable discount rates and forecast future growth rates and is therefore inherently subjective.
The market approach uses a price-earnings multiple which is judgemental.
The fair value less costs to sell of each CGU is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
No impairment was recorded in the year for any of the CGUs.
How the scope of our audit responded We performed detailed analysis and challenge of the Groups assumptions used in the annual to the key audit matter impairment review, in particular forecast future growth rates, the cash flow projections, discount rates and price-earnings multiples used by the Group in its impairment tests of the CGUs.
We challenged cash flow forecasts and growth rates by evaluating recent performance, trend analysis and comparing growth rates to those achieved historically and to external market data where available.
Our internal valuations specialists independently derived discount rates which we compared to the rates used by the Group and we benchmarked discount rates and price-earnings multiples to available external peer group data.
As the impairment test using the income approach for the Asia Pacific CGU was sensitive to changes in the growth rate assumption and the Americas CGUs was sensitive to changes in the growth rate and discount rate assumptions, we assessed the point at which an impairment would occur and considered whether this was a reasonably possible change which required additional disclosure in the Financial Statements.
Key observations We concluded that the Directors impairment test was appropriate and that no impairment of goodwill and other intangibles has arisen.
The cash flow forecasts used in the annual impairment review were consistent with the most recent financial budgets considered by the Board and were reasonable in the context of recent business performance.
The discount rates and price-earnings multiples used by the Group are within a reasonable range of rates implied by both our internally derived discount rates and peer benchmarks.
The growth rates used by management are reasonable.
The Financial Statements disclose that, when using an income approach to estimate fair value less costs to sell, a reasonably possible change in the growth rate assumptions for the Asia Pacific CGU and the growth rate and discount rate assumption for the Americas CGU would result in the carrying value of these CGUs exceeding their recoverable amount.
We consider that such disclosure is appropriate.
com 98 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Finalisation of the provisional accounting fortheICAP acquisition Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on page 110, accounting estimates and judgements on page 116 and the acquisitions Note on page 142.
Key audit matter description The Group had a period of up to 12 months to finalise the accounting for the acquisition of ICAP in accordance with IFRS 3.
The accounting has now been finalised and resulted in a restatement of the prior year balance sheet to recognise an increase of 19m in the fair value of assets acquired, an increase of 18m in the fair value of liabilities acquired and a net reduction in intangible assets arising on consolidation of 1m.
As set out in Note 30, the increase in the fair value of assets acquired includes 3m in respect of the valuation of software and 18m for associates and joint ventures.
The increase in the fair value of liabilities includes 13m for employee related provisions not previously recognised.
The amounts are subject to estimation risk and there is a risk that the fair value adjustments are not complete.
The Directors engaged external specialists to support their assessment of the valuation of software and associates and joint ventures.
How the scope of our audit responded We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to the finalisation of to the key audit matter theprovisional accounting for the ICAP acquisition.
We audited the Groups finalisation of the accounting forthe ICAP acquisition, specifically focusing on the valuation and completeness of fair value adjustments.
Our audit procedures included: assessing the objectivity and expertise of the Groups external specialist, meeting with themto discuss their approach and the findings within their final report: engaging our own valuation specialists to challenge the methodology and assumptions usedin the valuation of software and associates and joint ventures through comparison to industry practice: re-performing the calculation of employee related provisions in accordance with the relevant recognition criteria and reconciling a sample of underlying inputs to internal records and third party evidence: and testing the completeness and accuracy of information used in determining fair value adjustments.
We have challenged whether further fair value adjustments are required to the assets and liabilities of ICAP by reference to the requirements of IFRS and our understanding of the ICAP balance sheet based on the known facts and circumstances.
Key observations We considered the adjustments to the valuation of the software, associates and joint ventures andprovisions to be appropriate.
No further material fair value adjustments were identified through our testing.
Presentation and disclosure of CIP and integration related items Refer to the basis of preparation Note 2 c on page 108 and Note 6 on page 119.
Key audit matter description The Group reports exceptional items of 34m before taxation and acquisition, disposal and integration related items of 127m before taxation of which 79m related to integration.
Substantially all exceptional items are those related to the 2017 CIP.
There is a risk that items that reflect the underlying performance of the Group are incorrectly presented as CIP and integration related items.
In addition, there is a risk that undue prominence isgiven to underlying results compared to the statutory results of the Group in the Annual Report.
How the scope of our audit responded We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to the classification of to the key audit matter items as CIP and integration related.
For a sample of items we obtained supporting evidence to confirm whether the items related toCIP or integration or should be presented as part of the Groups underlying results.
We read the Annual Report and challenged the prominence given to underlying results relative to the Groups statutory results and whether the presentation was misleading.
We read the description of the basis of underlying results and whether it was consistently applied.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the reconciliation between underlying and statutory results.
Key observations We identified no items within CIP and integration related items that should be presented in underlying results.
We considered that the presentation of the Groups underlying results is appropriately explained, is understandable and that the reconciliation to the Groups statutory results is complete and accurate.
We considered that appropriate prominence has been given to the statutory results.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 99 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 9.6m 2016: 8.0m Basis for determining materiality and Last year, due to the timing of the ICAP acquisition, we determined materiality by considering rationale for the benchmark applied both normalised underlying profit before tax and normalised net assets to reflect the enlarged size and scale of the combined balance sheet but there being no impact on profit.
In 2017 we have reverted to using a purely profit based measure as a basis for determining materiality as we considered this to be the most appropriate.
Profit is a key performance indicator of the Group and a key metric used by investors and analysts.
For the 2017 Group Financial Statements, we have determined our materiality to be 9.6m on the basis of 5% of normalised underlying profit before tax which equates to less than 1% of total equity.
Parent Company materiality 4.8m 2016: 2.8m Basis for determining materiality and For the 2017 Parent Company Financial Statements, we have determined our materiality to be rationale for the benchmark applied 4.8m on the basis of 50% of Group materiality because the Parent Company is in scope for our Group audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2016: 0.4m, as well asdifferences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on eight locations 2016: seven locations with 30 subsidiaries 2016: 27 subsidiaries subject to a fullscopeaudit.
The increase in the number of subsidiaries from the prior year reflects the increased number of entities in the Group and  to revenue and profit: there are 15 legacy Tullett Prebon entities in scope for the Group audit and 15 ICAP entities.
The subsidiaries selected for a full scope audit or specified audit procedures represent the principal business units within each of the Groups operating segments.
These subsidiaries account for 99% 2016: 96% of the Groups total assets, 98% 2016: 95% of the Groups total liabilities, 88% 2016: 93% of the Groups revenue and 85% 2016: 94% of the Groups expenses.
The subsidiaries were selected to provide an appropriate basis of undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement including those identified above.
Our audits of each of the subsidiaries were performed using lower levels of materiality based on their size relative to the Group.
The materiality for each subsidiary audit ranged from 4.8m to 5.3m 2016: 2.8m to 4.4m.
Revenue Expenses Total assets Total liabilities Full s cope 98% Full scope 87% Full scope 79% Full scope 98% Analytical procedures only 12% Analytical procedures only 15% Analytical procedures only 1% Analytical procedures only 2% 1 We have determined normalised underlying profit before tax of 193m as underlying profit before tax of 233m less amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation of 40m.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on consolidation is a recurring cost and therefore reflects ongoing business performance.
com specified audit procedures 1% specified audit procedures 6% specified audit procedures 1% specified audit procedures 0% 100 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Report on the audit of the Financial Statements We tested the Groups consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to a full scope audit or specified audit procedures.
We also performed high level analytical review procedures in respect of those entities not included in the scope of our audit toidentify any fluctuations or relationships that are inconsistent with other relevant information and obtained adequate explanations.
The Senior Statutory Auditor has responsibility for overseeing all aspects of the audit work of the component auditors.
In discharging this responsibility, he visited the US and Singapore during the audit to meet local management and to oversee the audits of the subsidiaries based in the Americas andAsia.
The Group audit team performed a remote file review of the work performed by three other component auditors.
The Group audit team maintained a dialogue with all component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and received written reports from component auditors setting out the results of their audit procedures.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to Annual Report including the Strategic report and the Governance report, other than the Financial Statements and our report in respect of auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary toenable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is nota guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 101 Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared isconsistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: toreport in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration toreport in respect have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited isnot in agreement with the accounting ofthese matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure We were first appointed as auditors by a predecessor company of the Company upon its listing in 2001, to audit its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2001.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 and subsequent periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Robert Topley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 13 March 2018 www.
