Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group plc Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Serco Group Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the directors on 27 May 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 2 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most of risks of material misstatement significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
152 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Revenue and margin recognition Revenue 2,953.6m 2016: 3,011.0m, operating profit 30.0m 2016: 42.2m and Onerous Contract Provisions of 168.2m 2016: 220.2m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: Unchanged Refer to page 98 Audit Committee Report, page 168 and 174 accounting policy, page 176 key judgements and page 205 provisions note in the financial statements The risk Our response Subjective estimate Our audit procedures included the following: The contractual arrangements that Contracts were selected for substantive audit procedures based on qualitative factors, such as underpin the measurement and commercial complexity, and quantitative factors, such as financial significance and profitability that recognition of revenue by the group we considered to be indicative of risk.
Our audit testing for the contracts selected included the can be complex, with significant following: judgements involved in the assessment Assessing policy application: We inspected the contract agreements to challenge the method of current and future financial of revenue recognition adopted by the Group including, where relevant, the allocation of revenue performance of those contracts.
across contractual obligations and compared the specific method used to Group policy The key judgements impacting the recognition of revenue and resulting Independent reperformance: Where percentage of completion is used, we re-calculated operating profit include: the stage of completion on the basis of actual costs and latest cost forecasts to inform our assessment of the appropriate amount of revenue and profit to recognise and compared this Interpretations of terms and to the amounts recorded by the Group conditions in relation to the required Accounting analysis: We assessed whether the revenue recognition methodology applied service obligations in accordance was consistent with accounting standards.
We also inspected accounting papers prepared with contractual arrangements: by the Group to understand the support provided in respect of key contract judgements and The allocation of revenue and costs onerous contract provisions to performance obligations where Tests of details: We inspected a sample of correspondence with customers and third parties, multiple deliverables exist: in instances where contractual variations and claims have arisen, to inform our assessment of Assessment of stage of completion the revenue and costs recorded up to the balance sheet date and cost to complete, where Site visits: We visited key contract locations and attended a sample of monthly Divisional percentage completion accounting and Business Unit Performance Reviews used to assess business performance to inform our is used: assessment of operational and financial risks Consideration of the Groups For onerous and potentially onerous contracts identified through application of quantitative performance against contractual selection criteria, our procedures also included: obligations and the impact on Benchmarking assumptions: We compared contract level forecast revenues and costs to revenue and costs of delivery: Group budgets and forecasts approved by the directors.
We challenged key assumptions made by the Group in preparing these forecasts, including those in relation to revenue growth The recognition and recoverability and cost reductions, vouching to external evidence where possible and obtaining supporting assessments of contract related plans where appropriate assets, including those recognised as direct incremental costs prior to Our sector experience: We assessed the contractual terms and conditions to identify the key service commencement.
obligations of the contract to inform our challenge of completeness of forecast costs and cost accruals recorded at the balance sheet date Where an onerous contract provision Historical comparisons: We compared the contract forecasts to historic and in year is required, judgement is required in performance to assess the historical accuracy of the forecasts assessing the level of provision, including estimated cost to complete taking into Tests of details: We assessed the mathematical accuracy of the models used to forecast account contractual obligations to the contract revenues and costs end of the contract, extension periods Independent reperformance: We compared the forecast margin to the cumulative margin and customer negotiations.
recognised up to the balance sheet date to assess whether provisions for loss-making contracts had been appropriately recorded and, in the case of profitable contracts, that margin recognised to date did not exceed the forecast.
For selected contract related assets, representing capitalised bid and phase in costs, our procedures included: Assessing application: We assessed whether these had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and relevant accounting standards Comparing valuations: We inspected actual and forecast contractual cash flows and profits to assess whether these supported the carrying value of the assets Historical comparisons: We inspected the underlying contracts to inform our assessment of the forecast cash flows, and compared actual cash flows to forecasts to assess reasonableness Independent reperformance: We compared the amortisation period with the duration of the contract and checked that the amortisation had been calculated correctly Assessing transparency: We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the estimates and judgements applied reflected the risks related to revenue and margin recognition.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the revenue and margin recognised, and the level of onerous contract provisioning, to be acceptable.
153 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc only Recoverability of group goodwill and of parents investment in subsidiaries Group: 551.3m 2016: 577.9m : Parent company: 2,010.5m 2016: 2,001.3m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: Unchanged Refer to page 99 Audit Committee Report, page 170 accounting policy, page 176 key judgements and page 196 Goodwill note in the financial statements The Risk Our response Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included the following: Goodwill in the group and the carrying amount of Benchmarking assumptions: With the assistance of our valuation specialists, the parent companys investments in subsidiaries we challenged the growth rate and discount rate for each CGU used in the are significant and at risk of irrecoverability due to value in use calculation by comparing the Groups assumptions to external data.
uncertainty regarding contract attrition and new We challenged forecast assumptions around new contract wins or extensions, contract wins and extension rates, and the impact contract attrition, cost reductions and the allocation of central costs.
of the Groups transformation programme to Historical comparisons: We compared the forecast cash flows against budgets reduce operating costs.
and historic actual performance to test for historic accuracy.
The estimated recoverable amount of these Sensitivity analysis: We tested the sensitivity of the impairment calculation to balances is subjective due to the inherent changes in the underlying assumptions to inform our assessment of the significant uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting assumptions.
Comparing valuations: We considered whether the forecast cash flow In the year ended 31 December 2016, the Health assumptions used in the value in use calculation were consistent with the and Americas cash generating units presented the assumptions used to calculate the expected loss on onerous contract provisions, lowest headroom, and as a result the carrying value the recognition of deferred tax assets and the Directors assessment of going of goodwill for these CGUs may be particularly concern and viability.
The value in use derived was compared to the appropriate sensitive to a deterioration in the divisions goodwill and investments carrying value to identify any impairment.
projections or an increase in discount rate.
Assessing transparency: We also assessed whether the Groups and parent Companys disclosures about the sensitivity of outcomes reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and investment in subsidiaries.
Our results: We found the groups assessment of the recoverable amount of goodwill in the group and the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Retirement benefit surplus 41.8m 2016: 150.4m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: unchanged Refer to page 100 Audit Committee Report, page 172 accounting policy, page 177 key judgements and page 212 Retirement benefit schemes note in the financial statements The Risk Our response Subjective valuation Our procedures in respect of the SPLAS included the following: Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups Tests of details: We performed procedures to test the accuracy of data provided retirement benefit surplus in respect of the Serco by the Group to the scheme actuaries.
This involved selecting a sample of scheme Pension Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS, including participants to compare data provided to the actuaries to underlying employment mortality, price inflation, discount rates and future records held by the Group and the Scheme Administrator.
increases in salary and pension.
Small changes in the Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged the key assumptions used to calculate assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups the valuation of the Groups net pension surplus with input from our actuarial net pension surplus would have a significant effect on specialists, comparing the discount rate, inflation rate, salary increases, pension the Groups financial position.
increase rates and life expectancy assumptions used against externally derived data.
Accounting treatment Accounting analysis: We challenged the basis of the Groups judgement that it has an unconditional right of refund based on our assessment of the scheme As the Groups main defined benefit scheme is in rules and advice provided by external actuaries.
We have also considered the a net surplus of 41.8 million at 31 December 2017 application of accounting standards with regards to specific changes in the 2016: 150.4m, judgement is required to determine scheme during the period, including the effect of curtailments.
if it is appropriate to recognise an asset.
Accounting analysis: We have also considered the application of accounting The application of specific accounting treatments standards with regards to specific changes in the scheme during the period, in respect of transactions undertaken in the period, including the effect of curtailments.
including the impact of curtailments, settlements Assessing principles: In respect of contract related pension obligations, we and the purchase of a bulk annuity insurance challenged the judgements made by the Group in assessing whether defined policy require careful analysis with regards to the benefit liabilities have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms.
Our procedures included assessment of the underlying contract agreements and Judgement is also required to determine if pension consideration of legal advice obtained by the Group.
obligations associated with contract arrangements Assessing transparency: We assessed the Groups disclosure in respect of the meet the definition of defined benefit or defined sensitivity of the surplus to changes in the key assumptions.
contribution schemes, and whether an associated asset Our results or liability is required to be accounted for by the Group.
We found the valuation of the retirement benefit surplus to be acceptable.
154 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our application of materiality Materiality and an overview of the scope Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 5 million 2016: 5 of our audit million, determined with reference to a normalised benchmark of Group Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items taking into account historic financial performance and the Groups current profit margins in light of the Groups ongoing Strategy Review.
This represents 12.9% 2016: 5.8% of Group Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items of 38.7 million 2016: 85.9 million and 0.2% 2016: 0.2% of Group Revenue of 2,953.6 million 2016: 3,011 million.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 4.5 million 2016: 4.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 0.2% 2016: 0.2%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.25 million 2016: 0.25 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit Of the groups 8 2016: 9 reporting components, we subjected 6 2016: 7 to full scope audits for group purposes.
These 6 2016: 7 components represent approximately 99.8% 2016: 98.6% of the Groups Revenue, 99.4% 2016: 98.7% of Group profit before tax and 98.4% 2016: 99.1% of Group total assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved component materiality levels, which ranged from 2.0 million to 3.6 million 2016: 2.0 million to 3.6 million having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 4 of the 6 components 2016: 5 of the 7 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team visited all 2016: all component locations to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
At these visits, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report We are required to report to you if: on going concern we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 148 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report on the other information in together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not the Annual Report cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
155 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc only We have nothing to report Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability on the other information in Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing the Annual Report continued material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 30 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of the matters on which we are adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns required to report by exception adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 150, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
uk  156 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Respective responsibilities continued Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific area of anti-bribery and corruption, recognising the Governmental nature of many of the groups customers.
We identified these areas through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, from our sector experience, and from inspection of the groups regulatory, licensing and legal correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations in other areas including financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being anti-bribery and corruption as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries of directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and inspected correspondence with regulatory and licensing authorities, as well as legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter whom we owe our responsibilities 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stephen Wardell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 21 February 2018 157
