TO THE MEMBERS OF MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE INDEPENDENT HOTELS PLC ONLY AUDITORS REPORT Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 inDepenDent auDitorS report to the memberS of millennium & copthorne hotelS plc onlY 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of millennium We conducted our audit in accordance with international & copthorne hotels plc the company for the year Standards on auditing uK iSas uK and applicable law.
our ended31December 2017 which comprise the consolidated responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit Statement of profit or loss, the consolidated Statement of other evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis comprehensive income, the consolidated Statement of financial for our opinion.
our audit opinion is consistent with our report to position, the consolidated Statement of changes in equity, the the audit committee.
consolidated Statement of cash flows, the company Statement of financial position, the company Statement of changes in equity We were appointed as auditor by the company before 1994 prior and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note to the company becoming a public interest entity.
the period of 2.2 of the Group financial statements and note b of the company total uninterrupted engagement is for the 21 financial years ended financial statements.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, uK ethical requirements including the In our opinion: frc ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
t he financial statements give a true and fair view of the state no non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: overview Materiality: 7.0m 2016:7.0m t he Group financial statements have been properly prepared group financial statements as a whole 4.0% 2016: 4.5% of normalised profit in accordance with international financial reporting before tax Standards as adopted by the european union ifrSs as Coverage 95% 2016: 92% of group profit before adopted by the eu : tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 t he parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with uK accounting standards, Recurring risks Valuation of hotel assets including frS 101 reduced Disclosure framework: and Valuation of investment properties t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006 and, as recoverability of parent companys investments regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the iaS regulation.
HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 2ND LINE HEAD 0 3RD LINE C cO oN nT tIiNUE nueD D Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 73 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
these matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
the risk our response Valuation of Hotel Assets Subjective valuation Assessing values credentials: we assessed the independence, professional qualifications, competence and experience of the 3,129m: 2016: 3,238m the Groups hotel assets are subject to an annual review to assess external valuers used by the Group.
whether or not they may be impaired.
refer to page 49 audit Test of details: we challenged the Groups assessment of committee report, page 90 the Group first identifies the hotel assets where there is an the properties at risk by reference to impairment indicators accounting policy and page 107 indication of impairment.
these assets, are then subjected to depending on the asset concerned using our understanding of financial disclosures.
detailed impairment review with reference to either current the assets performance in relation to previous forecasts and the external valuations or internal trading updates from the most market performance and assessing the quantum of available recently available external valuation.
certain hotel assets were considered at risk of impairment due to Methodology choice: using our valuation specialists, we being subject to impairment in previous years and therefore any challenged the appropriateness of the valuers reports by decline in performance may result in a further impairment being assessing their valuations were in accordance with the ricS recorded or because the Group has experienced a difficult Valuation professional Standards the red book and relevant trading environment in 2017, particularly in the uS and asia.
external valuations are generally performed on a third party Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the key assumptions operator basis.
this assesses the value of the hotel on the same used in external valuations performed during the year, in basis that an efficient operator market participant would and particular forecast free cash flows and future market growth, therefore assesses the net cash flows that an efficient operator terminal and discount rates, by comparing them to externally believes it could achieve.
derived data, internal budgets and source data, where this analysis is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved applicable.
our valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation of in determining appropriate assumptions such as expected free the most subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
cash flows and future market growth, terminal rate and discount Our sector experience: for the properties at risk of impairment rates.
therefore, the review and challenge of these assumptions that were not externally valued during the year, we assessed is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated the trading results of the properties and whether any significant on.
changes in key assumptions were identified from the most recent external valuation.
this included comparing the current performance of the assets to the forecasts made in the last external valuation and assessing unusual trends in cash flows against source data, where applicable.
our valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation of the most subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions noted above for the most subjective and complex valuations.
Assessing transparency: we considered the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures about the impairment test and the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the valuation of hotel assets to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 2ND LINE HEAD 0 3RD LINE continueD Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 inDepenDent auDitorS report to the memberS of millennium & copthorne hotelS plc onlY continueD the risk our response Valuation of investment Subjective valuation Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the independence, properties professional qualifications, competence and experience of the investment property is one of the Groups largest asset category external valuers used by the Group.
and the models applied to determine the fair value of investment 577m: 2016: 534m properties are complex and sensitive to assumptions around Methodology choice: using our valuation specialists, we refer to page 49 audit rental rates and future market growth, terminal rate and discount challenged the appropriateness of the valuers reports by committee report, page 92 rates.
assessing their valuations were in accordance with the ricS accounting policy and page 111 Valuation professional Standards the red book and relevant most of the investment properties are currently held in asia financial disclosures.
where the Group experienced economic slowdown which may introduce increased pressure and level of uncertainty around the Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the key assumptions valuation of these assets.
used in valuation, in particular rental rates and future market growth, terminal rate and discount rates by comparing them to externally derived data, internal budgets and source data, where applicable.
our valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation of the more subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
Assessing transparency: we assessed whether the Groups disclosures properly reflected the risks inherent in the calculations and met the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
Our results We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over classification of investment properties.
however, given there were no complex significant acquisitions of investment properties we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Recoverability of parent Low risk, high value Tests of detail: we compared the carrying amount of 100% companys investments of investments to the relevant subsidiaries consolidated the carrying amount of the parent companys investments in trial balances to identify whether their net assets, being an 1,970m: 2016: 1,979m subsidiaries represents 97% 2016: 98% of the companys total approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in assets.
refer to page 152 accounting excess of their carrying amount.
policy and page 153 financial their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement Assessing subsidiary audits: we assessed the work performed disclosures.
or subject to significant judgement.
however, due to their by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those subsidiaries and materiality in the context of the parent company financial considered the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest and net assets.
effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our results: We found the groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016 acceptable.
HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 2ND LINE HEAD 0 3RD LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 75 3.
O ur application of materiality and an we performed analysis at an aggregated Group profit before tax Group revenue overview of the scope of our audit group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of materiality for the Group financial material misstatement within these.
4 1 statements as a whole was set at 7.0m 2016: 7.0m, determined with reference the Group audit team instructed to a benchmark of group profit before 96% 95% component auditors as to the significant tax normalised to exclude impairment on 2016 91% 2016 92% areas to be covered, including the relevant hotel assets and revaluation adjustments 91 92 risks detailed above and the information to on investment properties as disclosed in 96 95 be reported back.
these items are excluded due the Group audit team approved the to their volatility.
component materialities, which ranged from 3.5m to 4.5m 2016: 3.5m to 4.5m materiality for the parent company having regard to the mix of size and risk financial statements as a whole was set Group total assets profile of the Group across the components.
this is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have the work on 2 of the 5 components 2016: 3 determined by reference to net assets, and 4 of the 6 components was performed represents 0.48% of the companys net by component auditors and the rest 97% assets 2016: 0.52%.
was performed by the Group team.
the 2016 93% group team performed procedures on the We agreed to report to the audit 93 items excluded from normalised group committee any corrected or uncorrected 97 profit before tax.
the audit of the parent identified misstatements exceeding company was performed by the Group 0.35m, in addition to other identified engagement team.
misstatements that warranted reporting on Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 qualitative grounds.
Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 in 2017, the Group audit team visited all Review procedures 2016 none 2017 the three component locations subject the components within the scope of our Residual components to full-scope audit 2016: 3 to assess work accounted for the percentages the audit risk and strategy.
conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
at these visits of the Groups 5 2016: 6 reporting and meetings, the findings reported to the components, we subjected 3 2016: 3 Group audit team were discussed in more to full scope audits for group purposes.
detail and any further work required by the these components are: uK, uS and asia Group team was then performed by the excluding beijing.
We did not perform specified riskNormalised profit before tax Group Materiality focused audit procedures or review 176m 2016: 152m 7.0m 2016: 7.0m of financial information on any of the 7.0m Whole financial remaining components in 2017 2016: we statements materiality 2016: 7.0m conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at two other reporting 4.5m Range of materiality at 3 components, namely, middle east and components 3.5m-4.5m 2016: 3.5m to 4.5m beijing to achieve sufficient coverage.
the remaining 4% of total group revenue, 5% of group total profits and losses Normalised pro t 0.35m that made up profit before tax and 3% Misstatements reported to the before tax Group materiality audit committee 2016: of total group assets is represented by 0.35m 2 reporting components europe and beijing.
for these remaining components, HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 2ND LINE HEAD 0 3RD LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 inDepenDent auDitorS report to the memberS of millennium & copthorne hotelS plc onlY continueD 4.
We have nothing to report on going i n our opinion the information given in Corporate governance disclosures concern those reports for the financial year is We are required to report to you if: consistent with the financial statements: We are required to report to you if: w e have identified material and w e have anything material to add or inconsistencies between the knowledge i n our opinion those reports have been draw attention to in relation to the we acquired during our financial prepared in accordance with the directors statement in note 2 to the statements audit and the directors companies act 2006. financial statements on the use of the statement that they consider that the going concern basis of accounting annual report and financial statements Directors remuneration report with no material uncertainties that may taken as a whole is fair, balanced cast significant doubt over the Group in our opinion the part of the Directors and understandable and provides the and companys use of that basis for a remuneration report to be audited has information necessary for shareholders period of at least twelve months from been properly prepared in accordance to assess the Groups position and the date of approval of the financial with the companies act 2006. performance, business model and statements: or strategy: or Disclosures of principal risks and longert he related statement under the listing t he section of the annual report term viability rules set out on page 25 is materially describing the work of the audit based on the knowledge we acquired inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
committee does not appropriately during our financial statements audit, we address matters communicated by us have nothing material to add or draw We have nothing to report in these to the audit committee attention to in relation to: respects.
We are required to report to you if the t he directors confirmation within the corporate Governance Statement does 5.
We have nothing to report on the other Viability statement page 25 that they not properly disclose a departure from information in the Annual Report have carried out a robust assessment the eleven provisions of the uK corporate the directors are responsible for the other of the principal risks facing the Group, Governance code specified by the listing information presented in the annual report including those that would threaten its rules for our review.
together with the financial statements.
business model, future performance, our opinion on the financial statements We have nothing to report in these solvency and liquidity: does not cover the other information and, respects.
t he principal risks disclosures accordingly, we do not express an audit based solely on our work on the other describing these risks and explaining opinion or, except as explicitly stated information described above: how they are being managed and below, any form of assurance conclusion mitigated: and thereon.
w ith respect to the corporate Governance Statement disclosures t he directors explanation in the our responsibility is to read the other about internal control and risk Viability statement of how they have information and, in doing so, consider management systems in relation to assessed the prospects of the Group, whether, based on our financial statements financial reporting processes and over what period they have done so audit work, the information therein is about share capital structures: and why they considered that period materially misstated or inconsistent with to be appropriate, and their statement w e have not identified material the financial statements or our audit as to whether they have a reasonable misstatements therein: and knowledge.
based solely on that work we expectation that the Group will be have not identified material misstatements able to continue in operation and t he information therein is consistent in the other information.
meet its liabilities as they fall due with the financial statements: and over the period of their assessment, i n our opinion, the corporate Strategic report and directors report including any related disclosures Governance Statement has been based solely on our work on the other drawing attention to any necessary prepared in accordance with relevant information: qualifications or assumptions.
rules of the Disclosure Guidance and w e have not identified material transparency rules of the financial under the listing rules we are required misstatements in the strategic report conduct authority.
to review the Viability statement.
We have and the directors report: nothing to report in this respect.
HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 2ND LINE HEAD 0 3RD LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 77 6.
We have nothing to report on the other statements as a whole are free from We communicated identified laws and matters on which we are required to material misstatement, whether due to regulations throughout our team which report by exception fraud or other irregularities see below, included individuals with experience or error, and to issue our opinion in an relevant to those laws and regulations under the companies act 2006, we are auditors report.
reasonable assurance and remained alert to any indications of required to report to you if, in our opinion: is a high level of assurance, but does not non-compliance throughout the audit.
this a dequate accounting records have not guarantee that an audit conducted in included communication from the group to been kept by the parent company, or accordance with iSas uK will always component audit teams of relevant laws returns adequate for our audit have detect a material misstatement when and regulations identified at group level, not been received from branches not it exists.
misstatements can arise from with a request to report on any indications visited by us: or fraud, other irregularities or error and of potential existence of non-compliance are considered material if, individually with relevant laws and regulations t he parent company financial or in aggregate, they could reasonably irregularities in these areas, or other statements and the part of the be expected to influence the economic areas directly identified by the component Directors remuneration report to be decisions of users taken on the basis of the team.
audited are not in agreement with the financial statements.
accounting records and returns: or as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, a fuller description of our responsibilities is c ertain disclosures of directors as these may involve collusion, forgery, provided on the frcs website at www.
remuneration specified by law are not intentional omissions, misrepresentations, org.
made: or or the override of internal controls.
w e have not received all the Irregularities ability to detect information and explanations we 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to We identified areas of laws and require for our audit.
whom we owe our responsibilities regulations that could reasonably be this report is made solely to the companys We have nothing to report in these expected to have a material effect on members, as a body, in accordance with respects.
the financial statements from our sector chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act experience, through discussion with the 2006. our audit work has been undertaken 7.
Respective responsibilities directors and other management as so that we might state to the companys required by auditing standards, and from Directors responsibilities members those matters we are required inspection of the Groups regulatory and as explained more fully in their statement to state to them in an auditors report and legal correspondence.
set out on page 71, the directors are for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent responsible for: the preparation of the We had regard to laws and regulations permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements including being in areas that directly affect the financial assume responsibility to anyone other satisfied that they give a true and fair view: statements including financial reporting than the company and the companys such internal control as they determine including related company legislation members, as a body, for our audit work, is necessary to enable the preparation and taxation legislation.
We considered for this report, or for the opinions we have of financial statements that are free the extent of compliance with those laws formed.
from material misstatement, whether and regulations as part of our procedures due to fraud or error: assessing the on the related financial statements items.
Group and parent companys ability to Jonathan Downer in addition we considered the impact continue as a going concern, disclosing, Senior Statutory auditor of laws and regulations in the specific as applicable, matters related to going for and on behalf of KpmG llp, areas of listing rules, anti-bribery, data concern: and using the going concern Statutory auditor protection, employment law, and certain basis of accounting unless they either aspects of company legislation recognising intend to liquidate the Group or the parent chartered accountants the nature of the groups activities.
With the company or to cease operations, or have exception of any known or possible nonno realistic alternative but to do so.
15 canada Square compliance, and as required by auditing london, standards, our work in respect of these was Auditors responsibilities e14 5Gl limited to enquiry of the directors and other our objectives are to obtain reasonable management and inspection of regulatory assurance about whether the financial 28 march 2018 and legal correspondence.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 For more information online at: millenniumhotels.
com Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 Consolidated income statement 81 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 82 Consolidated statement of financial position 84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 85 Consolidated statement of cash flows 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 150 C ompany statement of financial position 151 Company statement of changes in equity 152 N otes to the Company financial statements M Social Singapore
