Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Practice.
the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Basis for opinion Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Reduced Disclosure Framework: and on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with under those standards are further described in the Auditors the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of Centrica plc We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance theCompany and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard the Group Income Statement: as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
the Group Balance Sheet: We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs the Company Balance Sheet: Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the Company Statement of Changes in Equity: andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group Cash Flow Statement: and related notes on pages 115 to 200 which include the summary ofaccounting policies.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters impairment assessment for long-life assets and goodwill: estimation of energy supply revenue: valuation of commodity trades: presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements: and accounting for the acquisition of the Bayerngas exploration and production assets.
Key audit matters considered by the Groups auditor in the prior year were broadly aligned with the items identified above, but also included consideration of onerous contracts which are less significant in the current year with no new contracts considered to be onerous and pensions which while material, we do not consider to be a key audit matter as the assumptions have not changed materially in the current year.
Accounting for the acquisition of Bayerngas Norge ASs exploration and production business was not relevant in the prior year.
The materiality that we used in the current year was 50 million which was determined on the basis of 5.5% profit Materiality before tax before exceptional items and certain re-measurements as defined in note 7.
50 million Scoping All divisions of the Group have been subject to a full scope audit using a component materiality level relevant All segments in full scope tothesize and risk associated with that business.
The decision to include all divisions in our full audit scope was toenhance our understanding of the Group and ensure that our audit was appropriately scoped in our first year asauditor.
We developed a detailed audit transition plan, designed to deliver an effective transition from the Groups First year audit transition predecessor auditor,  LLP PwC.
Our audit planning and transition commenced on We have completed a smooth 1January 2017, when we confirmed our independence to the Groups Audit Committee.
Our transition activities andeffective transition were performed across the Groups business divisions, which included but were not limited to meeting relevant partners and senior staff from PwC, shadowing PwC in the 2016 audit close meetings, attending the February 2017 Audit Committee meeting where the final report on the audit was presented andreviewing PwCs 2016 auditwork papers.
In March 2017, we held an audit transition planning workshop with senior members of our component teams in order to design our audit strategy and approach.
Senior management relevant to the audit also participated in detailed transition workshops involving each division, together with Internal Audit and Group Finance.
Our transition focused on obtaining an understanding of the Groups systemof internal control, evaluating the Groups accounting policies and areas of accounting judgement andmeeting with management across all divisions.
102 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 100 of the Financial We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going attention to in respect of these matters.
concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the attention to in respect of these matters.
audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation ofthe Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability tocontinue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we haveanything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 52 to 60 that describe the principal risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on pages 55 and 100 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on pages 61 and 62 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have doneso and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as theyfall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether ornot due tofraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatesteffect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the auditand directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit oftheFinancial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwe do not provide a separate opinion onthese matters.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 103 Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit responded Key audit matter description to the key audit matter Impairment assessment for long-life assets and goodwill The Group owns significant upstream gas and oil assets, certain power We understood managements process for identifying indicators of generation assets and gas storage assets, and also recognises goodwill impairment and for performing their impairment assessment.
We assessed from historic acquisitions, which are required to be reviewed forindicators the design and implementation of key controls relating to asset impairment ofimpairment or tested at least annually for impairment asappropriate.
models, the underlying forecasting processes and the impairment reviews performed.
The impairment assessment involves management judgement in considering whether the carrying value of those assets or cash generating We evaluated and challenged the key assumptions and inputs into units are recoverable.
theimpairment models which included performing sensitivity analysis, toevaluate the impact of selecting alternative assumptions.
Determining the recoverable amount involves significant estimation We confirmed that forecast cash flows were consistent with Board approved including: forecasts and analysed reasonably possible downside sensitivities.
forecasting future cash flows: We validated production profiles to external reserve and operator estimates forecasting future production or generation profiles: and agreed these to the cash flow forecast assumptions.
forecasting future commodity prices: We evaluated the Groups determination of future commodity prices using estimating oil and gas reserves: and our own internal experts, who benchmarked externally available future determining an appropriate discount rate.
commodity price estimates and performed sensitivity analysis with We note that the Groups impairment tests are particularly sensitive to future alternative future prices.
commodity price assumptions and discount rates, as shown by the We confirmed estimates of oil and gas reserves to third-party reserve reports, sensitivities disclosed in note 7 c. assessing the skills, qualifications and independence of these experts.
As disclosed in notes 13, 14 and 15 the total book value of long-life assets We involved our internal valuation specialists to evaluate managements and goodwill is 10.2 billion and following managements impairment testing discount rates, which involved benchmarking against available market views a total impairment of 678 million was recorded.
Seenote 3 b for further and analysis.
details of the specific assets subject to key estimation uncertainty and notes We evaluated the impairment or reversal judgements taken, with reference 7 c and S2 for details of other key assumptions used in estimating fair value to our assessment of key assumptions as outlined above and the outcome less costs of disposal for theseassets.
For potential reversal judgements, we understood Due to the significance of the judgements and estimates involved in the causes of any such reversal, and corroborated this toevidence of trigger determining the recoverable amount, those assets that are the most material events, and evaluated whether the reversal should or should not be and subject to the greatest estimation were concluded to represent the recognised.
highest risk of impairment, as explained in note 3 b and specified above.
We audited the integrity of the impairment models and cash flow forecasts For these long-life assets and goodwill, we identified a key risk of material to test arithmetical accuracy.
We recalculated the impairment charges, misstatement that these assets are not recoverable or that previously reversals or headroom and agreed to financial records.
Wereviewed the recorded impairments should be reversed.
impairment disclosures against the requirements of IAS36 Impairment Refer to pages 74 to 75 for the Audit Committees review and conclusion ofAssets.
ofthe key judgements underpinning the impairment assessment.
We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of managements impairment assessment in the Financial Statements to assess whether the disclosure isconsistent with the Groups policy and relevant accounting standards.
Key observations We are satisfied that key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount are appropriate, including estimates of reserves, production and generation profiles, and that the Groups discount rate assumptions are determined based on acceptable valuation methodologies and are reasonable whencompared to the ranges determined by our internal valuation specialists.
We note that the Groups future commodity price estimates used for the impairment assessment are within the acceptable range of externalsources, albeit at the higher end of this range.
Based on the sensitivities that we performed on these assumptions, we are satisfiedthat theGroups pre-tax impairment charge of 678 million is not materially misstated, and long-life assets and goodwill are notfurther impaired.
Weconcur with managements judgement that other than those reversals recognised, previously recorded impairments should not be reversed at this time.
104 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How the scope of our audit responded Key audit matter description to the key audit matter Estimation of energy supply revenue The recognition of energy supply revenue requires an estimation of Our audit approach for unbilled revenue was a combination of tests of customer usage between the date of the last meter reading and year end, internal control and data analytics work.
This included understanding the known as unbilled revenue.
There is particular uncertainty over estimating design of controls in the UK and North American revenue processes, consumption arising from unusual weather patterns.
Unbilled revenue frommeter to cash collection and controls over the period-end revenue recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 was 1.6billion reconciliation process.
In the UK, we tested the design, implementation pernote 3 b. andoperating effectiveness of key controls relied on to estimate unbilled revenue.
In North America, we assessed the design and implementation Our risk is focused on the accuracy, completeness and cut off of unbilled ofcontrols around unbilled revenue.
revenue, and the valuation of unbilled receivables in the UK and North American Home and Business segments.
We used data analytic tools in UK Home and Business to independently recalculate the unbilled revenue estimate generated by the billing systems We are required by auditing standards to presume there is a fraud risk for each customer account, in addition to auditing key manual adjustments inrelation to revenue recognition, which we have pinpointed to the estimates made by management, and the key assumption, being the value of energy underpinning the recognition of unbilled energy supply revenue and the consumed since last billing used in the estimation process.
potential for management override of related controls.
In our North America testing, we focused on creating an independent Refer to page 74 for the Audit Committees review and conclusion of the key estimate of unbilled revenue at the year end and compared this to the judgements included within unbilled revenue and notes 3 b and 17 to the estimate determined by management.
We also performed a look-back Financial Statements.
analysis to compare the estimated settlement data against historical results and a gross margin analysis to estimate the valuation based on external market pricing.
In both the UK and North America, we also assessed the accuracy of the estimates made by management in prior periods.
Any differences asa result of the work performed were investigated and challenged.
Key observations We are satisfied that the estimation of the Groups unbilled revenue is materially correct.
The estimation processes in the UK are appropriately controlled, butwe note that the processes in North America are more manual in nature and we were not able to rely on the operating effectiveness of therelevant controls.
Wenote that a reassessment of historical unbilled revenue in North America was identified by management and adjusted inthe year, as explained inthe Group Financial Review and the Audit Committee Report.
We did not identify any material errors in the year-end estimate.
Valuation of commodity trades In addition to proprietary trading activities, the Group enters into forward We have understood the Groups processes and controls for authorising commodity contracts to optimise the value of its production, generation, and recording commodity trades, and assessed the design and storage and transportation assets as well as to meet the future needs ofits implementation of key controls.
Certain of these arrangements are accounted for asderivative In the Groups Energy Marketing & Trading EM&T division, we used data financial instruments and are recorded at fair value.
Weidentified the analytic tools to trace commodity trades from initiation to recording in the following risks in respect of commodity trades: Groups accounting system, which included an assessment of whether theaccounting recognition was in line with the Groups accounting policies Valuation of complex trades and relevant accounting standards.
This confirmed that trades were Judgement is required in valuing derivative contracts, particularly where appropriately authorised, controlled and captured within the reporting there is optionality in a contract that requires modelling on a bespoke basis system, and were appropriately and consistently reported in left hand Level 2 or 3 in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
As such column or middle column, in accordance with the Groups accounting we identified a risk relating to the valuation of complex trades.
policies on certain re-measurements outlined in note 2 b. Own-use treatment Valuation of complex trades Certain commodity contracts have been entered into for the purposes of We used financial instrument specialists to assist the audit team in valuing securing commodity for the energy supply businesses.
Where contracts complex trades, which included auditing the Groups valuation models by have been entered into that wholly satisfy Centricas normal business creating an independent valuation, or performing input and output analysis, activities these have been determined to be own-use contracts and are not for all material non-standard contracts.
Due to the size and value of these contracts we have identified the appropriateness of the own-use treatment as a key audit matter.
Own-use treatment We reviewed all the Groups material own-use contracts to determine whether the application of the own-use treatment was appropriate.
Weaudited the prospective and retrospective demand tests performed bythe Group to determine whether the contract volumes exceed the amount of estimated own-use demand in the relevant periods, including anevaluation of the contracts for net settlement activity.
Key observations We are satisfied that commodity trades are valued appropriately.
In EM&T, we are satisfied that the accounting classification of trades is appropriate with trades tagged appropriately at inception.
In North America Business, we identified improvements to controls over the classification of trades and monitoring of net settlement activity for trades deemed to be own-use, which are being remediated.
None have resulted in material uncorrected misstatements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 105 Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit responded Key audit matter description to the key audit matter Presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements The selection and presentation of items excluded from adjusted profit We evaluated the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items and involves significant management judgement and adjusted results are of certain re-measurements against guidance issued by the Financial particular interest to stakeholders.
For this reason, we have identified this Reporting Council FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority asan area where management would be able to directly influence results.
ESMA regarding the publication of transparent, unbiased and comparable financial information.
The Groups accounting policy for the presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements is disclosed in note 2 b.
As disclosed in note 7 to We considered managements rationale for the treatment of exceptional the Financial Statements, exceptional items after taxation of 476 million and items presented and performed our own independent assessment of the certain re-measurements after taxation of 69 million have been recognised selection and presentation of each item against the Groups accounting in the current year.
policies and relevant regulatory guidance.
We challenged management over the principles used to determine items as exceptional, assessing whether Exceptional items include impairments or write backs on long-life assets, the application of the Groups policy was appropriate and consistent.
gains or losses on business disposals and costs associated with the Groups restructuring programme.
For certain re-measurements, we audited the principles management use todetermine whether a trade should be recognised as part of ongoing Where the Group enters into trades that give rise to an accounting mismatch business performance or presented separately.
We evaluated whether between accrual accounted assets, contracts and demand and the marked those agreed principles had been applied consistently by reviewing key to market accounted forward commodity contracts, the fair values of those contracts and testing a sample of trades to confirm that the accounting contracts are accounted for separately as certain re-measurements within treatment was appropriate.
the middle column of the Groups Income Statement and are excluded from business performance.
We also verified that trades within certain re-measurements were entered into at market prices where the counterparty was another Group business, Due to the judgement involved in identifying and valuing these contracts, we to ensure that profits and losses within the middle column reflect only have identified the appropriateness of the allocation of trades to the middle market-related movements.
column as a key audit matter, as this has a significant impact on the Groups reported business performance.
We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of these items in the Financial Statements to assess whether the disclosure is consistent with the Groups There is a risk that adjusted profit measures are misleading and that the policy, in line with FRC and ESMA guidance, and understandable to readers.
principles used to determine the classification as exceptional are not in line with relevant guidance, substantiated or applied on a consistent basis.
Refer to page 74 for the Audit Committees consideration of exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Key observations We are satisfied that the items presented as exceptional and within certain re-measurements in the Financial Statements are incompliance with the Groups accounting policies, which have been applied consistently with prior periods, and are clearly described toreaders.
Accounting for the acquisition of Bayerngas exploration and production assets The Group acquired the European exploration and production assets of In response to this key audit matter, we assessed the accounting treatment Bayerngas on 8 December 2017.
Accounting for business combinations for the transaction by reviewing key documents and evaluating the accounting iscomplex and this transaction involved the acquisition of certain assets judgements against relevant accounting guidance.
Wehave also reviewed andliabilities, in return for a share of the Groups existing Exploration the disclosures of the business combination provided in note 12.
&Production assets, together with various complex contractual rights We audited the fair valuation of acquired assets and the fair valuation of the between the parties.
The acquisition accounting is set out in note 12 and Groups existing Exploration & Production assets, which were used to total consideration was 745 million with goodwill recognised on acquisition determine the consideration value.
This involved internal valuation specialists of 102 million.
We identified the following risks of material misstatement associated with Given the nature of the fair value exercise, much of this work was consistent the transaction: with our work performed for impairment purposes.
Therefore refer to the key accounting for the transaction, including: audit matter for Impairment above regarding our audit ofmanagements the assessment of control: discount rate, future commodity prices and estimates of reserves.
the assessment of shares issued as equity or debt instruments: the valuation of consideration contributed and goodwill arising: and the valuation of non-controlling interest.
the fair valuation of assets acquired in the transaction with Bayerngas, which included evaluating reserve estimates, future production profiles and commodity prices and the selection of appropriate discount rates: and the disclosure of the business combination as presented in note 12 ofthe Financial Statements.
Refer to page 75 for the Audit Committees review of business combinations, including the acquisition of Bayerngas Norge AS.
Key observations We are satisfied that the accounting judgements taken are appropriate and that the fair values adopted are not materially misstated, although we refer to our observations on the Groups future commodity price assumptions outlined in the Impairment matter above.
Wenote that using alternative price assumptions would have a significant impact on the valuation of acquired assets and the valuation ofconsideration payable for those assets.
106 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andin evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 50 million 2016: 59 million The materiality for the Company accounts was determined to be 40 million 2016:53million, capped to be consistent with our highest component materiality.
We determined Group materiality on the basis of 5.5% of 2017 pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional Basis for determining materiality items and certain re-measurements as defined and reconciled in note 7 to the Financial Statements.
The predecessor auditor used 5% of a three-year average of pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements was considered to be the most relevant benchmark as it is of most interest to stakeholders.
Furthermore exceptional items and certain re-measurements are volatile and materially impact the Groups performance each year due toevents and transactions that are not part of the underlying activities of the Group and excluding them enables a more consistent basis with which to consider the Groups performance on an ongoing basis.
Reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences inexcess of 5 million 2016: 5million, aswell as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to theAudit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group is organised by its different operating segments as This has resulted in coverage of 98% of Group revenue, 91% outlined in note 4.
These operating segments represent the different ofGroup profit before tax and 89% of Group net assets.
businesses in the Group and are how management monitor The materiality levels of the components ranged from 15 million performance.
We used the Groups operating segments as the to40 million depending on the contribution of the components basisfor our audit scope.
operations to the Group and our assessment of risk relevant specific Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group to each location.
Given our judgement to perform full scope audits and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing inthe non-significant segments noted above, we determined that the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Having acomponent materiality of 15 million for these businesses was performed this assessment it was concluded that the following appropriate, which reflected the lower risk profile of these segments.
components were considered to be the most significant and were All components except for North America Home, North America subject to full scope audits: Business and Ireland are audited from the United Kingdom and UK Home: hence we oversee these component audits through regular meetings UK Business: and direct supervision.
For the overseas components, each was North America Home: visited several times during both transition and throughout the year by the lead audit partner and other senior members of the engagement North America Business: team.
All teams were involved in our transition workshops and other Energy Marketing & Trading: and transition activities, all of which was overseen and directed by the Exploration & Production.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team has To enhance our understanding of the Groups operating segments, been directly involved in overseeing the component audit planning processes and balances in our first year as auditor, we also decided and execution, through frequent conversations, team briefings, to perform full scope audits for all non-significant segments, being: debate, challenge and review of reporting and underlying work Ireland: papers.
In addition to our direct interactions, we sent detailed instructions to our component audit teams, attended audit closing Connected Home: meetings and reviewed their audit working papers.
We are satisfied Distributed Energy & Power: that the level of involvement of the Group audit partner and team Central Power Generation: and inthe component audits has been extensive and has enabled us Centrica Storage.
toconclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained in support of our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 107 Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued Other information Responsibilities of Directors The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, agoing concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless withthe Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the theDirectors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company auditor otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
orto cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a FinancialStatements material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we haveperformed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, ofthis other information, we are required to report that fact.
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement include where we conclude that: when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides userstaken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or website at: frc.
Thisdescription forms Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work part of our Auditors Report.
ofthe Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Use of our report Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate This report is made solely to the Companys shareholders, as a body, Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the withthe UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions Companys shareholders those matters we are required tostate to specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assumeresponsibility provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
toanyone other than the Company and theCompanys shareholders asabody, for our audit work, forthisreport, or for the opinions we We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
108 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared isconsistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2017 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is therefore one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
James Leigh FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 21 February 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 109
