112 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the Our opinion ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial In our opinion, Pearson Plcs Group financial statements and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as parent company financial statements the financial statements : applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent companys cash To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit flows for the year then ended: services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted to the Group or the parent company.
by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent of the Companies Act 2006: and company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial The scope of our audit statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial We have audited the financial statements, included within statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made the Annual Report and accounts the Annual Report, which subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant comprise: the Group and parent company balance sheets as at accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 31 December 2017: the Groups income statement and statement of considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
comprehensive income, the Group and parent company statements of cash flows, and the Group and parent company statements of We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and financial statements, which include a description of the significant considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to accounting policies.
applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the Basis for opinion risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional We conducted our audit in accordance with International misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
procedures that focused on the risk of non-compliance related Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the to the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, and applicable tax Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements legislation in the countries in which Pearson operates.
Our tests section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Overview Our audit approach O verall Group materiality: 22m 2016: 23m, based on 4% of adjusted operating profit, adjusted for net finance costs.
O verall parent company materiality: 20m 2016: 21m, 1% of net assets capped below Group materiality Materiality W e conducted work in four key territories: US, UK, Brazil and China.
In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information reported by the associate Penguin Random House.
T he territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions and at the consolidated Group level, accounted for approximately: 67% of Audit scope the Groups revenue: 62% of the Groups profit before tax: and 60% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
R evenue recognition including risk of fraud Group.
C arrying values of goodwill and intangible assets Group.
Areas of focus N ature and presentation of non-trading items Group.
P rovisions for uncertain tax liabilities Group.
Re coverability of pre-publication assets Group.
Ma jor transactions Group and parent.
R etirement benefits and other post-retirement obligations Group.
Section 5 Financial statements 113 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of Key audit matters correspondence with legal advisors and tax authorities, enquiries Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors of management, review of significant component auditors work professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the the financial statements of the current period and include the most financial statements.
We did not identify any key audit matters significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had we also addressed the risk of management override of internal the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results material misstatement due to fraud.
of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition including risk of fraud There are two types of complex contracts that require significant Where books are sold together with workbooks delivered later or companion digital judgements and estimates, which could be subject to either materials available online, we assessed the basis for allocation of the purchase price accidental errors or deliberate fraud: between each element based on individual contractual arrangements, and then tested the detailed calculations supporting the revenue deferral calculations.
This included M ultiple element arrangements, such as the sale of physical validating adjustments for the extent of user take up in relation to digital content to textbooks accompanied by digital content or supplementary underlying support.
We found the revenue deferrals to be based on reasonable workbooks, where revenue is recognised for each element as estimates of the relative fair value of each element and to be properly and if it were an individual contractual arrangement requiring the consistently calculated.
estimation of its relative fair value: For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and more recent long-term contracts, C ertain long-term contracts that span year end, where revenue covering both testing activities and online delivery of teaching, we read the contracts is recognised using estimated percentage of completion based and assessed the accounting methodologies being applied to calculate the proportion on costs.
These include contracts to design, develop and deliver of revenue being recognised.
We also tested costs incurred to date and managements testing and accreditation, and contracts to secure students and estimates of forecast costs and revenues by reference to historical experience and support the online delivery of their teaching.
These complex contracts generate material deferred revenue Additionally, we have performed manual journals testing focusing on unusual or and accrued income balances and are areas where misstatements unexpected entries to revenue as well as unexpected users.
in the underlying assumptions or estimation calculations could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Our testing showed that revenue recognition practices are in accordance with Group policies and related accounting standards with appropriate methods for calculating In addition, there are material shipments towards the period the revenue recognised.
Refer to the returns provision areas of focus for our work end from major distribution locations giving rise to the over the risk of cut-off.
potential risk of a cut-off error.
Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets The Group recorded goodwill of 2,030m and intangible assets We obtained managements fair value less costs of disposal impairment model of 934m at 31 December 2017, including software, acquired and tested and evaluated the reasonableness of key assumptions, including CGU customer lists, contracts and relationships, acquired trademarks identification: operating cash flow forecasts and key inputs to these forecasts: and brands and acquired publishing rights.
the appropriateness of the inclusion of restructuring cost savings: perpetuity growth rates: and discount rates.
The Group recorded an impairment charge of 2,548m at 31 December 2016 against the North America CGU.
The carrying We tested the mathematical integrity of the forecasts and carrying values in values of goodwill and intangible assets are dependent on future managements impairment model and confirmed that managements estimate of cash flows of the underlying CGUs and there is a risk that if each CGUs recoverable amount is appropriately based on the higher of fair value less management does not achieve these cash flows it could give costs of disposal and value-in-use.
Our procedures have been focused on the North rise to further impairment.
This risk increases in periods when America and Core CGUs.
the Groups trading performance and projections do not meet We agreed the forecast cash flows to board-approved budgets, assessed how prior expectations, such as in 2016. these budgets are compiled and understood key judgements and estimates within The impairment reviews performed by management contain a them, including short-term growth rates, cost allocations and restructuring costs number of significant judgements and estimates.
Changes in and related savings.
these assumptions can result in materially different impairment We used valuations specialists to assess the perpetuity growth rate and discount rate charges or available headroom.
for each CGU by comparison with third-party information, past performance and relevant risk factors.
We also considered managements estimate of disposal costs for reasonableness.
We performed our own sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of reasonable changes in the key assumptions.
We agree with managements decision to provide additional disclosures and sensitivities in note 11 of the financial statements, in relation to the North America and Core CGUs.
114 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Returns provisions The Group has provided 170m for sales returns at 31 December We assessed managements evaluation of the trends in the market and their responses 2017.
The most significant exposure to potential returns within including changed incentive arrangements and shipping practices and considered Pearson arises in the US higher education courseware business.
whether managements methodology and three year averaging remained appropriate.
Trends in this business, such as the growth of textbook rentals and We were satisfied that this was the case.
We tested the returns provision calculations the availability of free on-line content continue to affect this market at 31 December 2017 and agreed inputs such as historical sales and returns experience and have the potential to impact returns levels if shipping practices to underlying records and arrangements with retailers are not managed by Pearson in We performed detailed testing over shipment and returns levels around the year end response to these trends: for example, returns in the first half of in particular at major shipping locations in the US and UK and evaluated whether these 2016 were higher and more volatile than had been anticipated.
gave rise to an increased risk of future returns.
We concluded that management had Management provides for returns based on past experience adopted methods and reached estimates for future returns that were supportable by customer and channel, using a three year average method.
Nature and presentation of non-trading items In May 2017, management announced a further three year We identified no material adjustments in relation to the recording of the restructuring restructuring plan to the one announced in 2016, to continue costs.
We noted that for the majority of these items there was clear evidence to support to simplify the business and focus further on their global the fact that they have arisen as a direct consequence of the Groups restructuring plans.
As a result, management recorded a There are certain costs where the classification as restructuring is subjective due to the restructuring charge of 79m during 2017. circumstances in which they have arisen.
Based on the audit evidence obtained, we have been able to conclude that, although subjective, there are valid arguments for associating Given the significance of this programme, management has these costs with the restructuring activities undertaken and therefore the classification excluded these costs from their adjusted profit measure in is reasonable.
addition to certain other items which have been excluded on a consistent basis with prior years.
We also considered the extent and clarity of the Groups reconciliations between the statutory and adjusted measures and the related explanations.
We were satisfied that There is a risk that inappropriate costs might be excluded from the these were appropriate and consistent with the nature of the underlying items.
underlying operating cost base in such a restructuring programme, and that the disclosures around the items excluded from adjusted performance measures might not be clear and transparent.
Provisions for uncertain tax liabilities The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the We engaged our tax experts in support of our audit of tax and obtained an geographical diversity of its businesses.
At 31 December understanding of the Groups tax strategy and risks.
We recalculated the Groups 2017 the Group had provisions for uncertain tax positions of tax provisions and determined whether the treatments adopted were in line with 280m see note 7. the Groups tax policies and had been applied consistently.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in We evaluated the key underlying assumptions, particularly in the US and UK.
In doing determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect this, we considered the status of tax authority audits and enquiries.
We considered the of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax provisions.
basis and support, in particular for provisions not subject to tax audit, in comparison The most significant of these relate to US tax.
with our experience for similar situations.
We also evaluated the consistency of managements approach to establishing or Changes in assumptions about the views that might be taken changing prior provision estimates and validated that changes in prior provisions by tax authorities can materially impact the level of provisions reflected a change in facts and circumstances.
recorded in the financial statements.
We are satisfied that managements provision estimates for uncertain tax positions were prepared on a consistent basis with the prior year and were adequately supported.
We also evaluated the disclosures in note 7 in relation to uncertain tax provisions, and were satisfied that the disclosures were consistent with the underlying positions and with the requirements of IAS 1.
Recoverability of pre-publication assets The Group has 988m of pre-publication assets at 31 December We assessed the appropriateness of capitalisation and amortisation policies and 2017 including 247m recorded in businesses classified as held selected a sample of costs deferred to the balance sheet as pre-publication assets to for sale see below.
Pre-publication assets represent direct test their magnitude and appropriateness for capitalisation and the appropriateness costs incurred in the development of education platforms, of amortisation profiles against sales forecasts, including considering the impact of the programmes and titles prior to their public release.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of the carrying We challenged the carrying value of certain pre-publication assets where products are value of these assets: this is further complicated by the transition yet to be launched, are less proven, or where sales are lower than originally anticipated.
to digital as the Group invests in new, less proven, inter-linked We assessed forecast cash flows against historical experience and obtained supporting digital content and platforms.
Where the pre-publication assets formed part of a held for sale business we also considered the evidence supporting the expected disposal proceeds exceeding the carrying value of those assets.
We found the Groups policies to be appropriate and consistently applied.
Whilst the carrying value of some assets depends on future sales growth, overall we considered the year end carrying values to be supported and in line with the Groups policy.
Section 5 Financial statements 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Major transactions The Group has disposed of both a 22% share in its investment We obtained and reviewed the sale agreements and evidence of proceeds received for in the Penguin Random House associate and Global Education both disposals.
We also reviewed the contractual agreements to assess the accounting during 2017.
Pre-tax gains on disposal of 96m and 44m have treatment and classification of proceeds and the gains on disposal of both Penguin been recorded respectively on these disposals.
Pearson Random House and Global Education.
We consider the accounting treatment to be continues to hold a 25% share in Penguin Random House.
appropriate and the gains to have been appropriately calculated and disclosed.
Additionally, at 31 December 2017 the K-12 and Wall Street English We have obtained evidence to support the held for sale determination including businesses have been classified as held for sale.
Therefore assets for WSE a signed sale agreement and for K-12 supporting Board approval and of 760m and liabilities of 588m have been classified as held evidence in support of a well advanced sales process.
From the evidence we have for sale on the face of the balance sheet.
Management have obtained we were satisfied that both K-12 and Wall Street English have been recorded the held for sale assets at the lower of carrying value appropriately measured and classified as held for sale at 31 December 2017. and fair value less costs to dispose.
No impairments were recorded on classification of the businesses as held for sale.
Retirement benefits and other post-retirement obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined We assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions supporting the Groups valuation contribution retirement plans throughout the world.
The total of retirement benefit obligations with the support of our own actuarial specialists fair value of plan assets is 3,492m and the total present value and undertook work to validate the valuation of assets.
of defined benefit obligations is 2,973m.
The largest plan is the We considered the consistency of managements methodology with prior periods.
Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK UK Group plan which Where changes to the basis of assumptions were made we obtained evidence in has a net surplus of 545m.
support of the revised basis, and where relevant to the changes in circumstances.
There have been a number of changes to the UK Group plan Our assessment included benchmarking assumptions against our independent in the period including increased contributions: an update expected range and with other FTSE 100 companies with plans of similar duration.
to certain actuarial assumptions: and the purchase of two We consider the changes to be supportable and appropriate.
insurance buy-in policies covering approximately 1.2bn of We have circularised fund managers and custodians to confirm existence of pension its total liabilities.
Given the size of the UK Group plan, changes assets and have performed independent valuation procedures.
We have not identified of this nature have a material impact on the net surplus.
any significant adjustments in relation to this work.
We have reviewed contractual information and advice received from external advisers in relation to the insurance buy-in policies.
We have confirmed that the accounting for these transactions is consistent with agreements entered into.
We also evaluated the disclosures in note 25 and were satisfied that they appropriately addressed key changes in the period.
How we tailored our audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of controls, and the industry in which they operate.
our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both Overall Group materiality: 22m, which represents 4% of adjusted individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
operating profit, adjusted for net finance costs as disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Refer to p116 for further details.
We conducted work in four key territories: US, UK, Brazil and China.
The territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions and at the consolidated Group level, accounted for approximately: 67% of the Groups revenue: 62% of the Groups profit before tax: and 60%% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Reporting on other information for the financial statements as a whole as follows: The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report Parent company financial thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Group financial statements statements Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other Overall 22m 2016: 23m.
20m information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, materiality 2016: 21m.
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, How we 4% of adjusted operating profit, adjusted 1% of net assets any form of assurance thereon.
determined it for net finance costs capped below In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Group materiality responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent Rationale for Note 8 of the financial statements explains We consider net with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the benchmark that the Groups principal measure of assets to be audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify applied performance is adjusted operating profit an appropriate 576m, which excludes the cost of benchmark for a an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, major restructuring, other net gains and Group holding we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is losses and acquired intangible asset company.
a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material amortisation, in order to present results However we misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we from operating activities on a consistent have capped have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement basis.
From adjusted operating profit we this below of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
deducted net finance costs of 30m see overall Group We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
note 8 because these mainly reflect materiality.
To the resulting With respect to the Strategic Report and Governance report, we also number we then applied 4% rather than considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies the usual 5% as our materiality calculation Act 2006 have been included.
was based on an adjusted measure.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct The range of materiality allocated across components was Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and between 3m and 18m.
matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them otherwise stated.
misstatements identified during our audit above 2m Group audit Strategic Report and Governance report 2016: 2m and 2m Parent company audit 2016: 2m as well as In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Governance reporting for qualitative reasons.
report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the Going concern financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Reporting obligation Outcome parent company and their environment obtained in the course of We are required to report if we have anything We have nothing the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the material to add or draw attention to in respect material to add or Strategic Report and Governance report.
CA06 of the directors statement in the financial to draw attention to.
statements about whether the directors However, because The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and considered it appropriate to adopt the going not all future events of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or concern basis of accounting in preparing the or conditions can be liquidity of the Group financial statements and the directors predicted, this identification of any material uncertainties to statement is not a We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: the Groups and the parent companys ability guarantee as to the The directors confirmation on pages 60 and 106 of the Annual to continue as a going concern over a period Groups and parent Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the of at least twelve months from the date of companys ability approval of the financial statements.
to continue as a principal risks facing the Group, including those that would going concern.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We are required to report if the directors We have nothing The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks statement relating to Going Concern in to report.
6R 3 is and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge The directors explanation on pages 60 and 106 of the Annual obtained in the audit.
Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to Section 5 Financial statements 117 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures financial statements drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material We have nothing to report having performed a review of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or and considering the directors process supporting their statements: error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: Listing Rules www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to Use of this report report when: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with The statement given by the directors, on page 110, that they Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume and understandable, and provides the information necessary responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save position and performance, business model and strategy is where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Other required reporting The section of the Annual Report on page 76 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Companies Act 2006 exception reporting communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, The directors statement relating to the parent companys in our opinion: compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure we have not received all the information and explanations we from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing require for our audit: or Rules, for review by the auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Directors Remuneration company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to from branches not visited by us: or be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Companies Act 2006.
CA06 are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation Appointment of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
were appointed by the members on 6 February 1996 to audit the The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1996 and determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted statements that are free from material misstatement, whether engagement is 22 years, covering the years ended 1 January 1996 due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters Stuart Newman related to going concern and using the going concern basis of Senior Statutory Auditor accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the for and on behalf of  LLP Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors no realistic alternative but to do so.
