Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ibstock plc Basis for opinion Report on the audit of the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our Opinion audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs In our opinion: Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the year then ended: group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the group financial statements have been properly and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Summary of our audit approach European Union: Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the the parent company financial statements have been current year were: properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Revenue recognition and customer rebates: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including and Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Inflation and discount rate assumptions Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic used in defined benefit pension scheme of Ireland: and valuations.
the financial statements have been prepared in This is our first year as auditor for the Group.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies The key audit matters identified in respect of Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial rebates and pensions are the same as the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prior year identified by the previous auditor Ernst & Young LLP.
We have audited the financial statements of Ibstock plc the parent company and its subsidiaries together, the group Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 4.0m which was which comprise: determined on the basis of profit before tax.
the consolidated income statement: Scoping We performed full scope audits on the three the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: UK trading components Ibstock Brick, Forticrete and Supreme, Head office entities the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: and the consolidation process.
Agreed upon procedures were performed by a local audit the consolidated and parent company statements of changes team in respect of the US trading component, in equity: Glen-Gery.
the consolidated cash flow statement: Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks the statement of accounting policies: and and viability statement Going concern the related notes 1 to 32 and 1 to 12.
We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at the parent company financial statements is applicable law and least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The statements.
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic We are required to state whether we have anything material to of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Practice.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Independent Auditors Report continued We are also required to report whether the Directors statement Report on the audit of the financial relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule statements continued 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Principal risks and viability statement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Based solely on reading the Directors statements and judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge statements of the current period and include the most significant we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of we are required to state whether we have anything material to resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the add or draw attention to in relation to: engagement team.
the disclosures on pages 32 to 37 that describe the principal These matters were addressed in the context of our audit risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion the Directors confirmation on page 58 that they have carried on these matters.
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 42 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Revenue recognition customer rebates Key audit matter The Group enters into various agreements whereby it offers customers retrospective rebates according to the volume of description transactions completed with that customer.
The rebate agreements are complex in nature, with different types of rebates being offered to each customer, with the nature of those rebates differing across the product range.
Due to the high level of complexity involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
The key audit matter in relation to customer rebates is pinpointed to the accuracy and completeness of the reduction against revenue in respect of rebates for customers in all divisions of the Group.
Refer to note 1 Accounting policies.
How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter.
We have: audit responded to assessed the design and implementation of the controls to address the key audit matter in all divisions and the operating the key audit matter effectiveness of controls in the Brick and Forticrete divisions: performed year-on-year analysis of revenue and rebates to understand any material changes in the rebate provision at a customer level: selected a sample of customer rebate agreements, inspected the terms and dates, and recalculated selected rebates in accordance with the contract terms, including confirming the sales data on which the rebate calculations are based: reviewed the largest customers in each of the divisions and requested written confirmations from a sample of the largest customers to confirm that the rebate provided by the Group is the full rebate due to the customer for 2017: assessed the completeness of rebates by reviewing credit notes raised during 2017 and post year-end, reviewed whether payments had been made to customers where we had been informed that no rebate agreement was in place and made enquiries of management as to the existence of any other rebate arrangements: and agreed a sample of rebates to settlement post year end.
Key observations Our testing of a sample of rebate agreements did not identify any material differences in the level of rebate recognised as a reduction against revenue.
We agree that there is no material misstatement in the level of rebates recognised for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit matter The Group has a net defined benefit pension asset of 46.1m gross liabilities of 613.4m at 31 December 2017 31 December description 2016: 28.7m net liability and 698.0m gross liabilities.
There is a risk of material misstatement relating to judgements made in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities as small changes in the key model input assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation rate can have a significant impact on the valuation of the liability.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report, note 1 Accounting policies and note 20 Post-employment benefit obligations.
How the scope of our We performed the following procedures to address this risk.
We have: audit responded to utilised our Pensions Analytics tool to assess the appropriateness of the inflation and discount rate assumptions used in the key audit matter respect of the UK scheme: engaged Deloitte actuarial specialists in respect of the methodology adopted and to review the legal advice received in the year in respect of IFRIC 14 and the Companys ability to access any surplus in the scheme: considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions: and challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation with reference to comparator company and market data as at 31 December 2017.
Key observations From the work performed we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are within a reasonable range.
We are satisfied that the recognition of a pension asset in the year and reversal of the previous additional IFRIC 14 liability is appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 4.0m 2016: 3.6m by the previous auditor 3.2m Basis for determining 5% of pre-tax profit 2016: 5% of profit before tax after 2% of net assets, capped at component materiality.
materiality adjusting for exceptional items Rationale for the We have selected profit before tax as our benchmark as it is Net assets are considered to be an appropriate benchmark benchmark applied the key focus for shareholders in assessing the performance for the Company given that it is mainly a holding company.
A set percentage of group materiality was applied to the Company based upon the scoping of components, assessing We have adopted a different benchmark for determining the risk within the Company compared to others within materiality to that used by the predecessor auditor.
consider statutory profit before tax to be the most appropriate benchmark in the current year, as this is the key focus for shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
The approach in the prior year was to use profit before tax after adjusting for exceptional items.
In the current year, pre-tax exceptional items of 4.9m have been recognised 2016: 32.0m gain before tax from exceptional items.
Group materiality 4.0m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.2m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000 2016: 180,000 for the group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Independent Auditors Report continued The parent company is located in Ibstock and audited directly by Report on the audit of the financial the group audit team.
The Group team is also responsible for the statements continued Head Office entities and the consolidation.
The component team in the US perform audit work and report into the Group team.
As part of the 2017 audit, a senior member of the group audit team visited the US component to direct and scope the specified audit procedures, meeting with management and the local Deloitte US team.
For all components we attend the local close meetings.
An overview of the scope of our audit Other information Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, information comprises the information included in the annual and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
report, other than the financial statements and our auditors Based on that assessment, we focussed our group audit scope report thereon.
primarily on the audit work at the three UK trading components Ibstock Brick, Forticrete and Supreme.
Full audits were Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other performed in these locations.
Our audit work at these locations information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual in our report, we do not express any form of assurance entity which were lower than group materiality ranging from conclusion thereon.
1.6 million to 3.2 million At the Group level, we also tested head In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our office entities and the consolidation process.
In total this provided responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, coverage of 80% of revenue, 95% of profit before tax and 85% of consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent the net assets.
Specified audit procedures were performed on with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the the remaining revenue, profit and net assets by a local audit team audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
in respect of the US trading component, Glen-Gery.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a Revenue material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
Full audit scope 80% we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 1 2.
Speci ed audit procedures 20% misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
2 In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Profit before tax Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of 1.
Full audit scope 95% the audit committee does not appropriately address matters 1 2 2.
Speci ed audit procedures 5% communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Speci ed audit procedures 15% 2 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Responsibilities of Directors Report on other legal and regulatory As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, requirements the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are Opinions on other matters prescribed by the responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys Companies Act 2006 ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be matters related to going concern and using the going concern audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate Companies Act 2006. the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements the information given in the strategic report and the Directors Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about report for the financial year for which the financial statements whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an the strategic report and the Directors report have been auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise of the parent company and their environment obtained in the from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in course of the audit, we have not identified any material the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Matters on which we are required to report by exception financial statements.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting if, in our opinion: Councils website at: www.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This description forms part of our auditors report.
require for our audit: or Use of our report adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act received from branches not visited by us: or 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required the parent company financial statements are not in agreement to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
with the accounting records and returns.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Directors remuneration or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Jonathan Dodworth Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK 5 March 2018 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Financial statements 93 C onsolidated income statement Other information 94 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income 144 Directors, advisers and Company 95 Consolidated balance sheet information 96 Consolidated statement of changes 144 Shareholder information in equity 144 Registered office 97 Consolidated cash flow statement IBC Cautionary Statement 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 138 Company balance sheet 139 Company statement of changes in equity 140 Notes to the Company financial statements Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 92 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Notes 000 000 Revenue 4 451,583 434,687 Cost of sales before exceptional items 283,745 268,554 Gross profit before exceptional items 167,838 166,133 Exceptional cost of sales 5 353 Gross profit 167,838 165,780 Distribution costs 38,344 36,523 Administrative expenses before exceptional items 41,542 47,258 Other exceptional administrative items 5 1,529 1,741 Administrative expenses 40,013 48,999 Exceptional curtailment gain 5 30,317 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 144 625 Other income 5,859 3,439 Other expenses 691 693 Operating profit 94,793 113,946 Finance costs before exceptional items 5,713 7,657 Exceptional finance costs income 5 8 6,386 3,286 Finance costs 8 12,099 4,371 Finance income before exceptional items 732 764 Exceptional finance income 5 9 522 Finance income 9 732 1,286 Net finance cost 11,367 3,085 Profit before taxation 83,426 110,861 Taxation 10 9,876 20,498 Profit for the financial year 73,550 90,363 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Parent 73,550 90,363 Notes Pence Pence Earnings per share Basic 11 18.1 22.3 Diluted 11 18.0 22.1 The notes on pages 98 to 137 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
All amounts relate to continuing operations.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93
