Vesuvius plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc Basis for Opinion Report on the audit of the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Opinion Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements In our opinion: section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we Vesuvius plcs Group financial statements and Company have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis financial statements the financial statements give a true for our opinion.
and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys Independence affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups pro t and We remained independent of the Group in accordance with cash ows for the year then ended the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the The Group financial statements have been properly financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we European Union have ful lled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally During the period, we identi ed that we had provided a Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting prohibited tax compliance service in respect of payroll taxes Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure to the Group in breach of paragraph 5.167R a ii of the FRCs Framework, and applicable law Ethical Standard.
Total fees billed in the period in respect of the service amounted to 1,800.
Upon identifying the breach, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance we immediately ceased providing this prohibited service.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as The prohibited service was provided to a component that did regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the not form part of our audit evidence in respect of the audit of IAS Regulation the Group.
We con rm that, based on our assessment of this We have audited the financial statements, included within breach, and the subsequent actions taken, we have not, in our the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, view, compromised our independence.
which comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets Other than the matter referred to above, and to the best of our as at 31 December 2017: the Group Income Statement and knowledge and belief, we declare that no non-audit services Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the of Cash Flows, and the Group and Company Statements of Group or the Company.
Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committees Report, signi cant accounting policies.
we have provided no other non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the 31 December 2017.
Our Audit Approach Overview Materiality Audit scope Key audit matters Materiality Overall Group materiality: Our audit included full-scope Provisions for exposures 7.6m, based on 5% of pro t audits of 20 components Provisions for income tax before tax and separately and speci ed procedures uncertainties reported items Headline on certain balances and pro t before tax transactions for nine Recognition of deferred tax additional components Audit scope assets for tax losses Overall Company materiality: 7.6m, based on 1% of total Taken together, the assets, capped to the level of components at which either Group materiality full scope audit work or speci ed audit procedures Key audit were performed enabled us matters to get coverage on 68% of revenue and 76% of Headline pro t before tax Financial Statements 125 The Scope of our Audit There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and and regulations is from the events and transactions re ected assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial in the financial statements, the less likely we would become statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors aware of it.
made subjective judgements, for example in respect of signi cant accounting estimates that involved making We did not identify any key audit matters relating to assumptions and considering future events that are irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also inherently uncertain.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including Key Audit Matters fraud.
We designed audit procedures at the Group and Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors signi cant component level to respond to the risk, recognising professional judgement, were of most signi cance in the audit that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to of the financial statements of the current period and include fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for whether or not due to fraud identi ed by the auditors, example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, financial statements, including, but not limited to, the UK and any comments we make on the results of our procedures Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, and global tax thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the compliance matters.
Our tests included, but were not limited financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these supporting documentation, review of correspondence with matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identi ed by legal advisers, enquiries of management, review of signi cant our audit.
component auditors work and review of Internal Audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for exposures We obtained an understanding for the basis of each signi cant estimate and the key assumptions used for provisions and, in certain cases, the related insurance assets.
The Group holds a number of provisions for exposures including those resulting Restructuring costs related to the Groups rationalisation of its operational and from indirect tax, regulatory, legal support functions.
The costs predominantly included redundancies and severance and environmental matters as well payments, professional adviser fees and other impairment charges for obsolete as restructuring commitments.
inventories and property, plant and equipment.
Refer to Restructuring Charges Note 7, We have tested a sample of restructuring costs to determine that these are Provisions Note 32, Accounting Policies directly attributable to the Groups restructuring activities and Critical Accounting Judgements and For costs which are provided for at the year-end, we have veri ed for a sample Estimates Note 3 and Signi cant Issues and Material Judgements in the Audit of transactions that a legal or constructive obligation exists Committee Report page 87.
From our procedures we concluded that restructuring costs were appropriately Determining the quantum of provisions recognised and classi ed within the financial statements requires the Directors to use judgement For provisions for disposal and closure costs, including litigation matters: and estimation, and for certain provisions, obtain specialist knowledge.
We obtained supporting computations for the estimated costs and tested the mathematical accuracy of these We focused on this area due to the judgement and estimates involved.
We discussed obligations arising with in-house and external legal counsel and inspected supporting evidence of the history of claims arising where these were used as inputs into client models used to estimate the provisions We also inspected evidence of available insurance cover and that this was appropriately presented gross of the associated provisions within Other receivables and considered the financial condition of insurance providers We found no exceptions in respect of this work Vesuvius plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter For all provisions we considered whether there is a range of possible outcomes in respect of each estimate.
Where appropriate, we veri ed that disclosure is included within the Annual Report of this.
We also considered the impact of the provisions for exposures on the reporting and disclosure of separately reported items and Alternate Performance Measures in the financial statements and veri ed that appropriate disclosures are made in the Annual Report.
Provisions for income tax uncertainties We utilised our tax specialists to provide a view of material judgements made.
Our audit procedures included: The Group holds a number of provisions for income tax exposures arising from tax Obtaining relevant computations and correspondence in respect of each material structuring, transfer pricing and local element of the provision for income tax uncertainty authority reviews.
Understanding the key assumptions made by management in recognising the Refer to Income Tax Note 10, Accounting provision and forming an independent view on the reasonableness of the Policies and Critical Accounting assumptions Judgements and Estimates Note 3 and Signi cant Issues and Material Judgements Assessing the consistency of approach used to determine provisions compared with prior periods, and considering whether such consistency remains appropriate in the Audit Committee Report page 87.
Determining the quantum of these Considering the range of possible outcomes in respect of the estimates and that provisions requires the Directors to the Annual Report discloses the nature of the estimation uncertainty make judgements and estimates, and From our procedures we concluded that the estimates are reasonable and that for certain provisions, obtain specialist appropriate disclosures have been included within the Annual Report.
Recognition of deferred tax assets for tax We utilised our tax specialists to support with the audit testing of the quantum of losses tax losses in the US and that this is accurately determined, taking into account the In certain territories such as the US, the year-end US tax reforms.
We concluded the tax losses are accurately determined.
Group has a material quantum of In addition to testing the quantum of tax losses: historical tax losses.
We tested managements forecasts supporting the amounts recognised as a The determination of whether these will deferred tax asset, and considered the likelihood of forecasts being achieved be utilised in the future is judgemental, particularly as to how much of these could We also considered a range of possible outcomes in the forecast and that an be reasonably expected to be utilised.
appropriate midpoint was taken in selecting the amount to recognise In addition, the impact of US tax changes We considered alternative views and whether a full versus partial recognition enacted in December 2017 requires approach was appropriate.
We concluded that the current approach, which reassessment of the calculation of total recognises tax losses as deferred tax assets to the extent there is pro t forecast tax losses and the lives attached to these.
against them which will be utilised, remains the most appropriate.
We veri ed There is a risk of error and judgement that appropriate disclosure of the amount of deferred tax asset not recognised given these changes are complex and is included within the financial statements subject to interpretation.
From our procedures we concluded that the estimate is reasonable and that Refer to Income Tax Note 10, Accounting appropriate disclosures have been included within the Annual Report.
Policies and Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates Note 3 and Signi cant Issues and Material Judgements in the Audit Committee Report page 87.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
Financial Statements 127 How We Tailored the Audit Scope additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and determined the type of work that needed to be performed controls, and the industry in which they operate.
at the entities by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component auditors of other PwC network rms.
Where the Vesuvius has operations in 37 countries and has 66 production work was performed by component auditors, we determined sites.
The Group consolidates financial information through the level of involvement and oversight we needed to have in reporting from its components which include divisions and the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude functions at these sites.
whether suf cient appropriate audit evidence had been Our audit scope was determined by considering the obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements signi cance of the entitys contribution to revenue and as a whole.
This was achieved through regular update meetings contribution to individual financial statement line items, with the component auditors and visits to 17 of the 20 full-scope with speci c consideration to obtaining suf cient coverage components by senior members of the Group audit team.
over areas of high risk and locations and entities where we identi ed signi cant or inherent risks.
Materiality The scope of our audit was in uenced by our application We identi ed one signi cant component being the Groups of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for German operations which comprise 14% of the Groups revenue.
These, together with qualitative considerations, As the Groups remaining revenue is spread across 74 financial helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, reporting components there were no other individually timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual nancially signi cant components.
The audit scope, including financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating Germany, comprised 20 components for which we determined the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate that full-scope audits would need to be performed and nine on the financial statements as a whole.
components for which speci c audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed.
This collectively Based on our professional judgement, we determined gave us coverage of 68% of the Groups revenue and 76% of materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: the Groups Headline pro t before tax.
This, together with the Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 7.6 million 7.6 million How we determined it 5% of pro t before tax and separately 1% of total assets, capped to the level of Group reported items Headline pro t before tax overall materiality Rationale for benchmark We believe that pro t before tax and We believe that total assets is an appropriate applied separately reported items Headline pro t before basis for determining materiality for the Parent tax provides us with an appropriate basis for Company, given this entity is an investment determining our overall Group materiality given holding company and this is an accepted auditing it is a key measure used by users of the financial benchmark.
The materiality was capped to the statements.
Headline pro t before tax is an level of Group overall materiality.
The Company is Alternative Performance Measure presented not an in-scope component in our Group audit.
and fide ned in the Annual Report and Accounts.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group to them misstatements identi ed during our audit above materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across 0.4 million Group and Company audit as well as components was between 0.1 million and 7.3 million.
misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
Vesuvius plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to draw to in respect of the Directors Statement in the financial statements about attention to.
However, because not all future whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern events or conditions can be predicted, this basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors statement is not a guarantee as to the identi cation of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys Groups and Companys ability to continue ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months as a going concern.
from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Reporting on Other Information Company and their environment obtained in the course of the The other information comprises all of the information in the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Strategic Report and Directors Report CA06.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, The Directors con rmation on page 23 of the Annual Report consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent that they have carried out a robust assessment of the with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material or liquidity misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the and explain how they are being managed or mitigated financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we The Directors explanation on page 23 of the Annual Report conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, information, we are required to report that fact.
We have over what period they have done so and why they consider nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK they fall due over the period of their assessment, including Companies Act 2006 have been included.
any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Based on the responsibilities described above and our work quali cations or assumptions undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, We have nothing to report having performed a review of the CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Directors Statement that they have carried out a robust Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Strategic Report and Directors Report Directors process supporting their statements: checking that In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is considering whether the statements are consistent with the consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
and their environment obtained in the course of the audit Listing Rules.
Financial Statements 129 Other Code Provisions Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to be expected to in uence the economic decisions of users taken report when: on the basis of these financial statements.
The statement given by the Directors, on page 121, that A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: balanced and understandable, and provides the information www.
This description necessary for the Members to assess the Groups and forms part of our Auditors Report.
Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Use of this Report Group and Company obtained in the course of performing This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and our audit only for the Companys Members as a body in accordance with The section of the Annual Report on pages 85 to 92 Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no describing the work of the Audit Committee does not other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or appropriately address matters communicated by us to assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Audit Committee person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent T he Directors statement relating to the Companys in writing.
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code speci ed, Other Required Reporting under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors Companies Act 2006 Exception Reporting Directors Remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the you if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006 CA06.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities for the Financial Statements Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the Audit Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements been received from branches not visited by us As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial law are not made Statements set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance The Company financial statements and the part of the with the applicable framework and for being satis ed that they Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for agreement with the accounting records and returns such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Appointment In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys were appointed by the Members on 10 May 2017 to audit the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and applicable, matters related to going concern and using the subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either uninterrupted engagement.
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Julian Jenkins Senior Statutory Auditor Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the for and on behalf of  LLP Financial Statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about London whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 28 February 2018 issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
