Financial Statements 82 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of 1.
Our opinion is unmodified material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by We have audited the financial statements of Hill & Smith Holdings us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet, address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement of results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and Cash Flows, and the related notes, including the accounting policies our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, on page 87 to 145. and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are In our opinion: incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state on these matters.
of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 Valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A. December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then 29.7 million: 2016: 28.8 million ended: Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 93 and 95 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accounting policy and pages 105 to 112 financial disclosures.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as The risk adopted by the European Union: Forecast based valuation the parent Company financial statements have been properly Market conditions in France have been challenging and as a result prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including there is limited headroom when testing France Galva S. A. for FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and impairment.
As explained in note 10, there are inherent uncertainties the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows and relatively small changes in these assumptions could give rise to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
material changes in the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
Our response Basis for opinion Our procedures included: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Sector knowledge: Assessed, through inquiry with on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have management, review of interim financial information whether any trigger events have arisen which would indicate a possible obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
impairment based on our knowledge of current market conditions: We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 March 1999.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 19 financial Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the groups assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in such as projected growth and discount rates: accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Our sector experience: Evaluated the appropriateness and year Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit on year consistency of underlying assumptions in determining services prohibited by that standard were provided.
the cash flows including considering the appropriateness of the growth assumption applied, comparison of forecast cash flows Overview to those achieved during the financial year ended 31 December Materiality: 3.25m 2016:2.9m 2017 and challenging management if such future cash flows Group financial do not reflect known or probable changes in the business 4.4% 2016: 4.5% of Total profits and statements as a environment.
losses that made up normalised Group whole profit before tax Challenged, assisted by our own valuation specialists, the key Coverage 95% 2016: 89% of Total profits and losses inputs used in the calculation of the discount rate by comparing that made up normalised Group profit it against external data sources and comparator group data: before tax Sensitivity analysis: Performed our own sensitivity analysis on Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 the assumptions noted above: Recurring risks Valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A. Assessing transparency: Assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the Provisions for uncertain income tax impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions positions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill in UK post retirement benefits relation to France Galva S. A.. obligation www.
com | Stock Code HILS Financial Statements 83 Our results Our response We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of Our procedures included: goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A. to be acceptable.
Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging, with the support of We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of goodwill our own actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, and other indefinite life intangible assets excluding France Galva being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life S. A..
However, due to the impairment headroom on these assets, expectancy against externally derived data: we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our Assessing transparency: Considered the adequacy of the Groups current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these report this year.
Provisions for uncertain income tax positions Our results 7.8 million: 2016: 6.9 million We found the valuation of the UK post retirement benefits obligation Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 97 accounting to be acceptable.
policy and pages 103 and 131 financial disclosures.
Recoverability of parent company investments in subsidiaries The risk 324.9 million: 2016: 330.9 million Subjective estimate Refer to page 137 accounting policy and page 140 financial The Groups international operations result in transactions that disclosures.
This activity has led to the existence The risk of a number of uncertain tax positions for which the Group makes a Low risk high value Parent Company key audit matter provision based on its best estimate of the amount of tax payable.
The provisions for these estimates often require judgement as to the Investment in subsidiaries represents 81% of the Companys interpretation of specific tax law.
In addition there is a risk of an error total assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant in estimating the provision.
misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent Company financial Our response statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest Our procedures included: effect on our overall parent Company audit.
Our tax expertise: With the assistance of our own tax specialist, Our response we: Our procedures included: Assessed the Groups tax positions, its correspondence with Tests of detail: We compared the net asset value and forecast the relevant tax authorities, and analysed and challenged income of the subsidiaries to the investment in subsidiary the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based undertakings and assessed whether there is sufficient on our knowledge and experiences of the application of the headroom for each of the investments: international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts: Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed on the subsidiary audits for a sample of subsidiaries and Assessed the tax implications of the intragroup refinancing considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries exercise undertaken in the year: profits and net assets.
Inspected Board minutes for reference to tax matters: Our results Challenged as to why the provisions for uncertain income We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of tax positions represent managements best estimate: investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Assessing transparency: Assessed that the tax accounting and 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope disclosures complied with the requirements of IAS 12 Income of our audit Taxes.
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.25m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total profits Our results and losses that made up Group profit before tax, normalised to We found the level of provisions for uncertain income tax positions to exclude net costs in respect of business reorganisations, acquisition be acceptable.
costs, profit on disposals of businesses, impairment of assets held for sale, an impairment charge of goodwill, settlement of certain UK post retirement benefits obligation defined benefit pension obligations and acquired intangible assets as 81.9 million: 2016: 90.9 million disclosed in note 3.
Total profits and losses that made up normalised Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 96 accounting Group profit before tax is calculated as 73.4m 2016: 64.5m, of policy and pages 124 to 130 financial disclosures.
The risk Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole Subjective valuation was set at 2.4m 2016: 2.2m, determined with reference to a The valuation of the UK post retirement benefits obligation involves benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.6% the selection of appropriate actuarial assumptions, most notably 2016: 0.5%.
the discount rate applied to the scheme liabilities, inflation rates We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or and mortality rates.
The selection of these assumptions is inherently uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 162,500, in subjective and small changes in the assumptions and estimates used addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting to value the Groups pension obligation could have a significant effect on qualitative grounds.
on the financial position of the Group.
com | Stock Code HILS Financial Statements 84 Independent Auditors Report continued Of the Groups 57 2016: 57 reporting components, we subjected 27 Group revenue Total profits and losses that 2016: 38 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
made up Group profit before tax The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
The remaining 4% of total Group revenue, 5% of total profits and 1 8 losses that made up Group profit before tax, 6% of total Group assets and 5% of total profits and losses that made up normalised 96% 95% Group profit before tax is represented by 30 reporting components, 2016 85% 2016 90% none of which individually represented more than 2% of any of total Group revenue, total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, total Group assets or total profits and losses that made 85 90 up normalised Group before tax.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine 96 96 our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant Group total assets Total profits and losses that areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and made up normalised Group the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved profit before tax the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.4m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 5 of the 27 components 2016: 5 of the 57 components was performed by component auditors and the 1 rest, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by 1 the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
94% 95% 2016 89% 2016 89% The Group team visited 1 2016: 1 component in the United States of America, the component in France 2016: no visit to confirm appropriate execution of the audit plan & strategy and inspect their findings.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with 89 89 these component auditors and all other components that were 94 96 not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Total profits and losses that Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 made up normalised Group profit before tax Group Materiality 3.25m Residual components 73.4m 2016: 64.5m 2016: 2.9m 3.25m Whole financial statements materiality 2016: 2.9m 2.4m Range of materiality at 56 components 0.1m to 2.4m 2016: 0.1m to 2.2m Total profits and losses that made up normalised Group before tax Group Materiality 162,500 Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016: 145,000 www.
com | Stock Code HILS Financial Statements 85 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability We are required to report to you if: statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in Corporate governance disclosures relation to the directors statement in the Group accounting We are required to report to you if: policies to the financial statements on the use of the going we have identified material inconsistencies between the concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of and the directors statement that they consider that the that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, of approval of the financial statements: or balanced and understandable and provides the information if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and 80 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
performance, business model and strategy: or We have nothing to report in these respects.
the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, Listing Rules for our review.
except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, are required to report by exception consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the our opinion: financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent information.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic agreement with the accounting records and returns: or report and the directors report: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law in our opinion the information given in those reports for the are not made: or financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and we have not received all the information and explanations we in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to 7.
Respective responsibilities be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors responsibilities Companies Act 2006.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 80, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in the preparation of financial statements that are free from material relation to: misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group the directors confirmation within the viability statement on and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, page 52 that they have carried out a robust assessment of disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or liquidity: have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and Auditors responsibilities explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance they have done so and why they considered that period to be is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial www.
com | Stock Code HILS Financial Statements 86 Independent Auditors Report continued statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Darren Turner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 7 March 2018 www.
