Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Cairn Energy PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the 'financial statements' : % and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: F8 e e e of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the 'Annual Report', which comprise: the group and % statements of cash flows and the group and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion F e U Fe U k Fe U e evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the U 8 in accordance with these requirements.
%  8 and upon identifying the breach, we immediately ceased providing the services.
We confirm that, based on our assessment of this breach, and the subsequent actions taken, we have not, in our view, compromised our independence.
Other than the matter referred to above, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs k I % Our audit approach Context {X F c Kraken and Catcher, achieved first oil production.
Cairn also continued their exploration and appraisal programme offshore Senegal.
Away from core operations, Cairns main focus has been dealing with the continued restriction on the ability to sell its shares in Vedanta Limited, and the F e 8 international arbitration process.
Cairn also implemented a new group wide Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system during the year.
The group audit team visited Norway as part of the audit process.
k Audit scope Risk of impairment of exploration producing assets and goodwill.
maers F { {X e  e 132 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality How we determined it Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate The parent company's purpose is to hold measure for a group with significant oil and gas investments in the subsidiaries of the group.
The exploration and production assets.
Revenues from parent company has limited income statement oil and gas production have only begun towards transactions, therefore the appropriate benchmark the end of the year and remain immaterial.
for assessing materiality is total assets.
Whilst we consider that an asset based materiality remains appropriate for the reasons set out above, in light of the increasing materiality year on year we have formally considered whether our audit testing approach has been sufficient for certain income statement line items.
After reviewing the work we have undertaken for each income statement line, we reduced our testing threshold for one of our tests but otherwise concluded that no additional work was required.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality was also less than our overall group materiality.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial e X  U applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries with management, enquiries with external legal counsel, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
133 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the location of accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
8 U c F % U c seen all of the development and production activity, with the main exploration activity occurring in Senegal.
8 U c c e : { { c c U c U k e subject to procedures at the exploration, development and production assets financial statement line item FSLI level to obtain sufficient coverage.
U c { c U c { U c k Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We challenged management's assessment of impairment triggers for exploration assets Risk of impairment of exploration producing assets and goodwill under IFRS 6 by considering licence conditions, the companys budgets and plans and results of any drilling.
We did not identify any additional triggers which had not yet been Although no impairment triggers have been identified on any material individual assets, considered by management.
this risk has remained consistent with prior year due to the market capitalisation of the We tested management's impairment reviews of goodwill, capitalised Senegal group continuing to be below the consolidated net assets.
As at 31 December 2017, this exploration assets and producing assets by performing the work described below: may be impaired.
reviewing the mathematical accuracy of key formulae in the impairment models and found no exceptions: comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review models to approved activity but no approved development plan at present, primarily Cairns discovery budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions for the relevant assets, which we found to be materially consistent: { % comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and operating Kraken, which both commenced production during the year.
expenditure forecasts to group approved values, operator estimates or third party e c reserves audit reports.
Where there were differences we sought explanations for these.
We also had discussions with the third party reserves auditors who had F : prepared the reports: to make significant judgements in relation to the key assumptions such as: benchmarking key assumptions including commodity price and inflation against long term oil price: external data and recent public announcements from other oil companies: reserve estimates: comparing the discount rates used for each asset to expected ranges prepared production volume profiles: by PwCs Valuations team: cost profiles and escalation applied: and reviewing managements sensitivities and performing additional sensitivity analysis discount rates.
over key assumptions in the model in order to assess the potential impact of a range We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the judgements of possible outcomes.
We determined that the calculation was most sensitive to and assumptions management are required to make in determining the existence of assumptions relating to the oil price: and impairment triggers and the amount of impairment.
assessing the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in the cash generating unit and in particular given that the recoverable amount is determined based on Management recorded no impairments during the year and an impairment reversal of a fair value less costs of disposal, the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all relevant balances had been included.
Refer to notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.6 to the accounts.
We found certain assumptions used by Cairn, including the long-term oil price, to be at the upper end of a reasonable range, while other assumptions, for example the use of a 3 year forward curve, were towards the lower end of a reasonable range.
We found that the discount rates for the North Sea producing assets were at the higher end of our expected range, but the discount rate used for Senegal was below our expected range.
Our review therefore focused on the sensitivity of the impairment assessments to movements in the long term oil price and discount rates.
We ran additional sensitivities on these assumptions and did not identify any potential impairments.
After performing the testing above, we concluded that no impairment was required, and that reversal of the impairment recognised in previous periods on Catcher was appropriate.
We also reviewed the related disclosures in the Annual Report for compliance with accounting standards and consistency with the results of our work, with no matters arising.
{X e  e 134 Key audit matter continued How our audit addressed the key audit matter continued F F Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn we performed the following procedures: India Limited understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent: On 22 January 2014 the Group received a request for information from the Indian tax read correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities, authorities in respect of amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which updating our evidence from prior audits: seek to tax prior year transactions under legislation applied retroactively.
At the same discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with regards to time, the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India Limited the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents: and now Vedanta Limited.
discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the groups legal advisers.
In February 2016, a final assessment order was received from the Indian tax authorities We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was reasonable Fc based on the work we performed, in particular: Cairn are continuing to contest this order in the Indian courts and a court of international managements view that no provision for tax should be made at this time: arbitration and at this point there is still no certainty over the outcome.
the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report: and Management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of an obligation arising the impact of the restriction on sale of Vedanta shares on the future funding and whether there is a need to recognise a provision or disclose a contingent liability.
We requirements for the Group.
therefore focused on this area as a result of the uncertainty and the potential material We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the impact to the group.
X Refer to Note 5.5 to the financial statements.
the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
We performed testing around three key areas: data migration, solution integrity and F { business readiness: Data migration Cairn implemented a new group wide ERP system in August 2017.
This was considered a significant audit risk given its pervasive impact across the control environment.
Pre go-live, we understood and inspected the extraction rules being used to transfer Specifically, such a system implementation results in increased levels of audit risk in the Post go-live we re-performed completeness checks on the data and noted following areas: no discrepancies.
Changes to business processes and controls, including key reconciliations: Solution integrity The underlying IT General Controls which support those business process: and The completeness and accuracy of the data migration from the old systems to the Pre go-live, we re-performed a sample of system functionality and user acceptance { Post go-live we performed walkthroughs of key processes and controls over key Each of these increase the risk around the completeness and accuracy of financial reporting.
Business readiness Pre-go live we discussed plans for go-live support specifically IT support.
Post go-live, performed walkthroughs of all key IT processes and controls relevant to the financial statements.
Our testing of IT General Controls identified some weaknesses and we adapted our audit approach accordingly.
In our year end substantive audit testing, we did not note any unexplained variances when looking at account reconciliations or other issues which would have been indicative of a problem related to the implementation.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
Going concern F Fe U Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement We have nothing material to add or to draw attention in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of to.
However, because not all future events or accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups conditions can be predicted, this statement is not and the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability of the financial statements.
to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 We have nothing to report.
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
135 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
e e Fe U the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs U Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 40 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 41 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the U : considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 131, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 95 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements e %  financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
{X e  e 136 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Fe U a from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report { e or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment 8 a % % % MICHAEL TIMAR SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow a 137
