100 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Hastings Group Holdingsplc Overview 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Materiality: 6.5m 2016: 5.4m We have audited the Financial Statements of Hastings Group group financial 4.6% of profit before tax Holdings plc the Company for the year ended 31 December statements as a whole 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Profit 2016: 1.0% of total revenue and Loss, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Coverage 100% 2016: 100% Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of of group profit before tax Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement Outstanding claims of Changes in Equity, Parent Company Statement of Cash Recurring risks liabilities Flows and the related Notes, including the accounting policies in Note 2.
Reinsurance assets Recoverability of the cost of In our opinion: investment in subsidiaries the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year risks of material misstatement then ended: Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the Group Financial Statements have been properly judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the prepared in accordance with International Financial Financial Statements and include the most significant Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not the Parent Company Financial Statements have been due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the properly prepared in accordance with International Financial greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters Companies Act 2006: and which are unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with our key audit procedures to address those matters with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as and, as required for public interest entities, our results from regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our Regulation results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Basis for opinion Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, We conducted our audit in accordance with International and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate Key audit matter basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our Outstanding claims liabilities 1,193.3m, 2016: 901.9m report to the audit committee.
Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, Note 2 Accounting policies and pages 121 to 123 and 136 to 138 We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on financialdisclosures.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended The risk 31December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical Subjective valuation: responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Reserving for outstanding claims liabilities is the area requiring Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the most significant judgement in the Financial Statements.
the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest The Group maintains reserves to cover the estimated cost of entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard settling all expected future claims with respect to losses or were provided.
injuries, whether or not those losses or injuries have been reported to the Group.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 101 Estimating the reserves required for claims incurred but not Benchmarking: reported IBNR to the Group involves significant judgement Large bodily injury claims we challenged the Groups and the use of actuarial and statistical projections.
This estimate of the effect of potential changes in the Ogden includes whether any of the larger bodily injury claims will discount rate applied to bodily injury claims and whether result in any periodical payment orders PPOs which are the frequency assumption, sensitivity and development payments made periodically over several years or even the patterns were comparable to our actuarial benchmarks, lifetime of a policyholder.
PPOs and potential PPOs increase market data and the groups historical experience.
the complexity and uncertainty of the estimation of reserves Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of due to the increased range of assumptions required.
the Groups disclosures regarding the degree of estimation uncertainty and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to Our response changes in assumptions.
Our procedures included: Control observation: including whether the Group had Our result followed their documented reserving policy in setting claims We found the valuation of the outstanding claims reserves.
Control re-performance: We tested controls over the Key audit matter completeness and accuracy of claims data underlying the Reinsurance assets 1,087.7m, 2016: 822.0m actuarial projections used by the internal and external Refer to page 71 Audit committee report, Note 2 Accounting actuaries to set the incurred but not reported IBNR policies and pages 121 to 123 and 136 to 138 financial reserves.
Our actuarial experience: Using our actuarial specialists we considered the findings of the Groups internal actuary The risk and the independent actuary report.
Through critical Subjective valuation: assessment of these actuarial reports and supporting As part of the Groups overall risk mitigation, the Group documentation, and through discussion with both purchases quota share and non-proportional excess of loss actuaries, we analysed and challenged the differences in reinsurance.
The valuation of outstanding claims liabilities reserving methodology applied by both actuaries as well as recoverable from reinsurers is dependent on, but not directly the key assumptions being used including claims inflation, correlated to, the valuation of outstanding claims liabilities.
discount rates, subrogation and the impact of legislative and process developments.
The amount of reinsurance asset to recognise against the IBNR claims reserves is particularly judgmental as this is Benchmarking assumptions: We assessed the inherently linked to the judgements and estimates involved assumptions through the assessment of claims in the reserving process.
The risk of default by a reinsurer is a development trends and benchmarking to market data.
If any reinsurer fails to pay the Group, Historical comparisons: We have compared prior year or fails to pay on a timely basis, the Group could experience reserves to actual outcomes to assess whether the Group significant losses or liquidity difficulties.
Though the Group has historically set adequate reserves.
We assessed spreads its reinsurance cover across a panel of different the extent to which the margin between the reserves reinsurers, the Group bears credit risk to each counterparty booked and the actuarial best estimate was determined especially to longer-term assets arising as a result of consistently with prior periods and in line with the reserving recoveries from IBNR and PPO claims reserves.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 102 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued Our response Our response Our procedures included: Our procedures included: Control re-performance: We tested the process and Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% controls over the approval of new reinsurance contracts of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance inorder to support the recognition of a reinsurance asset.
sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were Our actuarial experience and benchmarking: We used in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether our own actuarial specialists to assess the accuracy and those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
recoverability of the reinsurance assets over IBNR claims by considering the historical reinsurance recovery ratios Our sector experience: For the investments where the whilst taking into consideration changes in the underlying carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing reinsurance programme.
the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based on the recoverable amount.
Methodology choice: Using our own actuaries we assessed the methodology for establishing reinsurers share Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work of IBNR claims reserves against current market practices performed by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those and for consistency with prior periods.
subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Control observation: We tested the monitoring of controls over the credit ratings of the panel of reinsurers to assess Our result the risk of default.
We found the Companys assessment of the recoverability Benchmarking assumptions: We assessed the credit of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
ratings of the panel of reinsurers against rating agencies.
We assessed the reasonableness of the reinsurance bad debt 3.
Our application of materiality and an assumptions and checked the post period end receipts overview of the scope of our audit of reinsurance receivables to provide evidence over the recoverability of the year end reinsurance assets.
Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 6.5m 2016: 5.4m, determined with reference to a Test of detail: We obtained third party confirmation of the benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents contractual arrangements in place and reported claims 4.6% 2016: 1.0% of total revenue.
amounts with the reinsurance broker.
We consider profit before tax to be the most appropriate Our result benchmark for Hastings Group Holdings plc this year as the We found the valuation of the Groups reinsurance assets Group continues to seek to maximise shareholder value to be acceptable.
In the prior years, we had used total revenue as the benchmark due to increased profit Key audit matter volatility as a result of one off costs including those arising Recoverability of the cost of investment in subsidiaries from the IPO transaction and debt restructuring.
These 1,274.3 m: 2016: 1,271.0 m. Refer to page 71 one-off costs reduced profit before tax to a level that was not Auditcommittee report, Note 2 Accounting policies reflective of the size of the overall business andpage 155 financial disclosures.
Materiality for the Parent Company Financial Statements as The risk a whole was set at 3.1m which represents 4.6% of profit Low risk, high value beforetax.
The carrying amount of the Parent Companys investments in subsidiaries represents 99.91% of the Companys total assets We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m as at 31 December 2017.
2016:0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, Of the Groups 10 2017: 10 reporting components, we due to their materiality in the context of its Parent Company Financial Statements, this is considered to be the area that subjected 10 2017: 10 to full scope audits for group purposes.
had the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
These audits were undertaken by the Group audit team with the exception of Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL where the audit was undertaken by overseas component auditors who reported back to the Group audit team.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 103 The Group audit team instructed the overseas component 5.
We have nothing to report on the other auditor, KPMG Gibraltar, as to the significant areas to be information in the Annual Report covered, including the relevant risks and the information to The Directors are responsible for the other information bereported back.
presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does The Group team agreed the AICL component performance not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not materiality of 4.8m 2016: 3.7m, which was also applied by express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, all components for the audit for group reporting purposes.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The Group team visited KPMG Gibraltar during 2018 to discuss Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in the significant audit risks, findings and also to complete a file doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements review.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with audit work, the information therein is materially misstated KPMG Gibraltar throughout the year.
or inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified Profit before tax PBT 2016: Total revenues material misstatements in the other information.
149m PBT 2016: 590.3m Group Materiality Total revenues 6.5m 2016: 5.4m Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: 6.5m Whole financial statements materiality we have not identified material misstatements in the 2016: 5.4m Strategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the 4.8m Component performance materiality 2016: 3.7m financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Directors Remuneration Report 2016: 0.3m 0.3m In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Profit before tax Group materiality to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and 4.
We have nothing to report on longer-term viability goingconcern Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial We are required to report to you if: Statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement Financial Statements on the use of the going concern basis on page 43, that they have carried out a robust assessment of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that would threaten its business model, future performance, basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of solvency and liquidity: approval of the financial statements: or the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and page 55 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what We have nothing to report in these respects.
period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 104 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability 6.
We have nothing to report on the other Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
matters on which we are required to report by exception Corporate governance disclosures Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to We are required to report to you if: you if, in our opinion: we have identified material inconsistencies between the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Groups position and performance, business model and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or strategy: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the law are not made: or Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters we have not received all the information and explanations communicated by us to the Audit Committee: we require for our audit.
we are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a We have nothing to report in these respects.
departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our 7.
Directors responsibilities We have nothing to report in these respects.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Based solely on our work on the other information described Financial Statements including being satisfied that they give a above: true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is with respect to the Corporate Governance Statement necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements disclosures about internal control and risk management that are free from material misstatement, whether due to systems in relation to financial reporting processes and fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys about share capital structures: ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, we have not identified material misstatements therein: matters related to going concern: and using the going concern and basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have the information therein is consistent with the financial no realistic alternative but to do so.
statements: in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Statement Auditors responsibilities has been prepared in accordance with relevant rules of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free Financial Conduct Authority.
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 105 Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities We communicated identified laws and regulations or error and are considered material if, individually or in throughout our team and remained alert to any indications aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial communication from the group to component audit teams of statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for request to report on any indications of potential existence of one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of by the component team.
internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonnot just those directly affecting the Financial Statements.
detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material This report is made solely to the Companys members, effect on the Financial Statements.
We identified relevant as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the areas of laws and regulations from our sector experience, Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so through discussion with the directors and other management that we might state to the Companys members those matters as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our affect the Financial Statements including financial reporting audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our Salim Tharani procedures on the related Financial Statements.
Senior Statutory Auditor In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor in the specific areas of regulatory capital and conduct, recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups Chartered Accountants activities.
With the exception of any known or possible 15 Canada Square non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, London E14 5GL our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the 28 February 2018 directors and other management and inspection of regulatory correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related Financial Statement items.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc Financial statements C Co on ns so oli lida date ted d fi fi na nan nc ci ia al l s st ta at tem emen ent ts s C Co on ns sol oliid da at te ed d s st ta at te eme ment nt 10 107 7 oof p f prroofifi t o t or lr loosss s C Co on ns sol oliid da at te ed d s st ta at te eme ment nt 10 108 8 o of c f co om mp pre reh he en ns siiv five i e in nc co om me e C Co on ns so olliid da at te ed d b ba alla an nc ce e s sh he ee et t 10 109 9 C Co on ns sol oliid da at te ed d s st ta at te eme ment nt 11 110 0 o of c f ch ha an ng ge es i s in e n eq qu uiit ty y  s d sttaatteemmeennt o t of c f caassh fl h fl oowws s 111 111 N No ot te es t s to t o th he c e co on ns so olliid da at te ed d 11 112 2 fifi n naanci nciaall ssttaatteeme mentntss P Pare arent nt C Co omp mpan any y fi fi n nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s P Pa are ren nt C t Co om mp pa an ny b y ba alla an nc ce s e sh he ee et t 15 150 0 P Pa are ren nt C t Co om mp pa an ny s y st ta at te em me en nt t 1 151 51 o of c f ch ha an ng ge es i s in e n eq qu uiit ty y P Pa are ren nt C t Co om mp pa an ny s y st ta at te em me en nt t 15 152 2 oof c f caassh fl h fl oowws s N No ot te es t s to t o th he P e Pa are ren nt C t Co om mp pa an ny y 15 153 3 fifi n naanci nciaall ssttaatteeme mentntss Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 107 Consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Underlying trading preOgden rate Underlying Non-trading Ogden rate change Underlying Non-trading 1 2 1 trading items Total change impact trading items Total Note m m m m m m m m Gross written premiums 6 930.8 930.8 769.0 769.0 769.0 Gross earned premiums 6 856.1 856.1 691.8 691.8 691.8 Earned premiums ceded toreinsurers 6 446.0 446.0 357.0 357.0 357.0 Net earned premiums 6 410.1 410.1 334.8 334.8 334.8 Other revenue 7 298.7 298.7 254.9 6.6 248.3 248.3 Investment and interest income 8 6.8 6.8 7.2 7.2 7.2 Net revenue 715.6 715.6 596.9 6.6 590.3 590.3 Claims incurred 9 786.9 786.9 551.7 160.1 711.8 711.8 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 9 487.4 487.4 305.0 146.7 451.7 451.7 Net claims incurred 9 299.5 299.5 246.7 13.4 260.1 260.1 Acquisition costs 64.9 64.9 51.9 51.9 51.9 Other expenses 10 167.1 167.1 146.2 146.2 146.2 3 Adjusted operating profit 184.1 152.1 20.0 132.1 Amortisation and depreciation 10 5.5 21.5 27.0 5.6 5.6 22.0 27.6 Finance costs 14 7.8 0.3 8.1 9.6 9.6 0.6 10.2 Profit before tax 170.8 21.8 149.0 136.9 20.0 116.9 22.6 94.3 Taxation expense 15 26.2 3.9 22.3 22.0 2.0 20.0 4.1 15.9 Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 144.6 17.9 126.7 114.9 18.0 96.9 18.5 78.4 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the parent expressed in pence per share Basic earnings per share 16 19.3p 11.9p Diluted earnings per share 16 19.2p 11.9p All results arose from continuing operations.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 Non-trading items are defined as expenses or earnings that are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group and include reorganisation, refinancing and transaction costs and the impact of accounting for business combinations as described in Note 11.
2 On 27 February 2017, the UK Governments Lord Chancellor announced a reduction in the personal injury discount rate the Ogden rate from 2.5% to minus 0.75%.
TheGroup therefore adopted the discount rate of minus 0.75% to estimate personal injury claims liabilities at 31 December 2016.
This was considered to warrant separate disclosure due to the significance of the impact.
3 Adjusted operating profit represents profit before taxation expense, finance costs, amortisation and depreciation and non-trading costs.
This is a non-IFRS measure used bymanagement to measure the underlying trading of the business and is provided for information.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 108 | Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Note m m Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 126.7 78.4 Other comprehensive income Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Fair value loss gain on available for sale investments 25 2.0 5.7 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 2.0 5.7 Items that may not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation loss gain on property 19 0.1 0.1 Total items that may not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 0.1 0.1 Total other comprehensive loss gain 2.1 5.8 Total comprehensive income attributable to the equity holders of the parent 124.6 84.2 The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
