Independent Auditors report to the members of TI Fluid Systems plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, TI Fluid Systems plcs the Group group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Company statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 31 to the financial statements, we have not provided any other non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 11.0 million 2016: 7.0 million, based on 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items.
Overall company materiality: 8.9 million 2016: 4.9 million, based on 1% of net assets.
Materiality There were no significant components within the Group: We performed full scope audit work on 15 components 2016: 16 components and specified procedures over certain balances on eight components 2016: eight components.
Areas that are centralised at the US Audit and UK head offices have been audited by the group audit team: and scope This provided coverage of 66% 2016: 65% for revenue, 61% 2016: 66% for operating profit, and 82% 2016: 83% for net assets.
Key audit Warranty provision Group.
matters Goodwill and intangible assets impairment Group.
Accounting for hedging arrangements Group.
Deferred tax asset recognition and provision for uncertain tax positions Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group, which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, enquiries of management, review of correspondence with legal advisors, review of component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
TI Fluid Systems plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the Auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the Auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Warranty provision We focused on the judgements made by management in Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 42, assessing the likelihood and quantification of material exposures.
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting policies including Our procedures were designed to ensure reasonableness of Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements and Note 27 the warranty provision included: Provisions.
Understanding the nature of the specific claims through discussions with management and review of correspondence The Group is exposed to warranty claims in the event that with the customers: its products fail to perform to specifications.
Warranty provisions Assessing managements evaluation of the likelihood and are made to cover potential exposures that relate to specific quantum of exposure which is based on the terms of the customer claims.
The warranty provision at 31 December 2017 contract with the customer, underlying issue with the relevant to cover potential exposures on existing claims is 19.8 million product and the status of negotiations with the customer: 2016: 21.0 million.
Discussions with senior divisional executives and personnel involved in the negotiation of the specific issues and making As the settlement of specific issues is dependent on the enquiries to ensure all material open issues have been customer, complexity of the issue and the negotiation process, assessed for warranty provisions: the outcome of claims is often difficult to predict and quantify.
Review of internal management reporting to ensure all Due to this, warranty provisions involve significant judgement.
material open issues have been considered for completeness for warranty provisions: Discussions with Executive Directors to understand the status of negotiations on the specific issues: and Challenging management and the executive directors on the reasonableness of the warranty provision based on information available and evaluating possible scenarios of settlement of the issues.
Based on the work performed the warranty provisions are reasonable in the context of the status of the open claims.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment We reviewed managements impairment model and Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 42, focused our audit on the key judgements and estimates.
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting policies and Procedures performed included: Note 14 Intangible assets.
In respect of the identification of CGUs, we confirmed that this is the lowest level at which management monitors The Group holds goodwill of 724.9 million 2016: 767.2 million goodwill for internal purposes and that it is consistent with and intangible assets of 549.0 million 645.6 million as at the way in which the Groups results are reported to the 31 December 2017.
Board and the Executive Team: Testing the underlying calculations in managements All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill must be impairment model and agreeing the cash flow forecasts tested for impairment annually.
Assets are grouped at a CGU to the latest medium-term plan approved by the Board: level, the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable Evaluating the reasonableness of forecast cash flows by cash flows.
The determination of CGUs and the recoverable ensuring consistency with the latest Board approved mediumamount requires judgement by management in both identifying term plan, discussions with the Groups commercial and and valuing the relevant CGUs.
financial management, challenging material changes to the forecasts year on year, assessing reasonableness of growth There are judgements and estimates involved in managements assumptions with reference to market information and impairment review including cash flow forecasts, discount rates assessing the accuracy of historical cash flows to build in and long-term growth rates.
A change in these assumptions can reasonable sensitivities into our overall impairment assessment: result in a material change in the valuation of the assets.
Engaging our valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of discount and long-term growth rates considering the risk profiles of the CGUs being tested for impairment: Evaluating managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and performing independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to managements models required to result in an impairment: For FCS Latin America, assessing the carrying value under the fair value less costs of disposal model to further support the carrying value: and Assessing the appropriateness and completeness of the related disclosures in Note 14.
We noted no material exceptions and considered managements key assumptions supporting the asset values to be reasonable.
The related disclosures are deemed acceptable.
TI Fluid Systems plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the Members of TI Fluid Systems plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for hedging arrangements We engage subject matter experts to consider the accounting Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 42, treatment of new and continuing derivative arrangements Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting policies, including a review of the appropriateness of the disclosures Note 3 Financial risk management, and Note 25 included in the financial statements.
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
Our procedures to audit the appropriateness of hedge accounting The Group has exposure to movements in interest rates included the following procedures, on a sample basis: and exchange rates and uses financial derivatives to mitigate Reviewing hedge documentation to ensure compliance the risk of these exposures.
with IAS 39: Reviewing the hedge effectiveness tests performed by Significant judgement and estimation are involved in assessing management to ensure the hedging arrangements meet whether the financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting the criteria for the application of hedge accounting: and and in determining the fair value of forward exchange contracts Independently valuing the derivative fair values.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is determined by discounting We have considered managements accounting, valuation the future cash flows using market rates prevailing at the and presentation of derivative financial instruments and have reporting date.
not noted any material issues Deferred tax asset recognition and provision for uncertain In conjunction with our tax specialists, we evaluated and tax positions challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 42, of tax exposures to assess the reasonableness of the Groups Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and tax provisions.
This included obtaining and evaluating certain Note 12 Income Tax.
third party tax opinions that the Group has obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number of jurisdictions.
The Group has recognised In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of we considered recent correspondence with relevant tax which is an inherently judgemental area.
At 31 December 2017, authorities, complexity and developments in the tax environment the Group has recorded provisions of 44.1 million in respect in the relevant territories and positions taken by the Group in the of uncertain tax positions 2016: 53.6 million.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial statements, or the rationale for not At 31 December 2017, the Group has recognised 51.0 million recording a provision, by using our specialist tax knowledge, 2016: 69.9 million of deferred tax assets on the balance sheet, reading the latest correspondence between the Group and the the recognition of which involves judgement and estimates by various tax authorities and advisors.
management as to the likelihood of their realisation.
The expectation that the benefit of the assets will be realised is These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements dependent on a number of factors including appropriate taxable position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our temporary timing differences and whether there will be sufficient assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and reflected the latest developments in the reporting standards.
We evaluated the Directors assessment as to whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of deferred tax assets by evaluating the future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations and comparing the forecasts to historical performance.
Based on the evidence obtained we considered the level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets recognised and the related disclosures are acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group operates across four geographical territories of Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America and two divisions of Fluid Carrying Systems FCS and Fuel Tank and Delivery Systems FTDS.
Each division consists of a large number of components spread across a number of countries.
Overall, the Group operates in 118 manufacturing locations across 28 countries.
We did not identify any individually significant components within the Group.
We scoped our work to ensure that overall we have sufficient coverage to express the required opinion in compliance with applicable Auditing Standards.
In 2017, we have revised the components in scope for a full-scope audit to ensure we cover components with specific risks, and rotate the components in scope to cover a number of components over time.
TI Fluid Systems plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have performed full scope audits on the financial information of 15 components 2016: 16 components and specific audit procedures based on risk and materiality on the financial information of eight components 2016: eight components.
Areas that are centralised at the US and UK head offices, including hedging arrangements, goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment and accounting for head office companies have been audited by the group audit team.
This is supplemented by analytical procedures across the remainder of the Group.
The coverage for both the current and prior year is sufficient for us to comply with auditing standards.
Where component auditors performed work, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
The group audit team maintained supervision and oversight of the local audit teams, which included review of component team reporting, and visits to local audit teams in the US, China, Belgium, Spain and the UK to review relevant working papers and attend meetings with local management.
The group audit team has performed the audit of the Company.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 11.0 million 2016: 7.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for 1% of net assets exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark Based on the benchmarks used in the There is no trading activity within the applied Annual Report, profit before tax adjusted Company and net assets is therefore for exceptional items is the primary an appropriate benchmark.
measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
Adjusting for exceptional items provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.1 million and 5.2 million.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 550,000 group audit 2016: 350,000 and 450,000 company audit 2016: 250,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect We have nothing material of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered to add or to draw attention to.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements However, because not all future and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys events or conditions can be ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of predicted, this statement is not approval of the financial statements.
a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
TI Fluid Systems plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the Members of TI Fluid Systems plc continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 21 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 61, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 41, 42 and 43 describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the Auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 TI Fluid Systems plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, the Directors appointed us on 11 September 2015 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three financial years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Christopher Hibbs Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 29 March 2018 TI Fluid Systems plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
