Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Financial Statements 79 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Just Group plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Just Group plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Consolidated statement of financial position, Consolidated statement of cash flows, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1: and the statement of financial position of the Company, statement of changes in equity of the Company, statement of cash flows of the Company and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1 of the Company financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders in 2006.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 12 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 11.5m 2016: 11.5m 0.7% 2016: 0.7% of Group net assets Coverage 98% 2016: 98% of Group net assets Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Valuation of insurance liabilities No change Valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages No change Valuation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from insurers No change Parent: Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries No change Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 80 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Just Group plc 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of insurance Subjective valuation We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing our liabilities The Group has significant insurance procedures in this area.
Our procedures included: 2017: 16,633million, liabilities representing 75% 31 December 2016: 15,748 million.
2016: 71% of the Groups total liabilities.
Control design and performance: This is an area that involves significant Testing of the design, implementation and operating The risk compared to the judgement over uncertain future outcomes, effectiveness of key controls over the processes to determine the prior year is unchanged.
mainly the ultimate total settlement value valuation of the policyholder liabilities including Groups review of long-term policyholder liabilities.
and approval of the methods and assumptions adopted the Refer to page 50 calculation of policyholder liabilities and appropriate change Audit Committee report, The Group is required to use judgement in management controls over the actuarial models.
page 95 accounting policy the selection of key assumptions covering Testing of the design, implementation and operating andpages 113 to 116 both operating assumptions and economic effectiveness of the reconciliation controls to ensure financialdisclosures.
completeness and accuracy of data flows from policy administration systems and data warehouses to the The key operating assumptions are actuarialmodels.
mortality, determined by reference tothe Groups own experience and expected levels Methodology cover: of future mortality, and the expected level We have assessed the methodology for selecting assumptions and of future expenses, which is based on the calculating the policyholder liabilities.
This included: expected future costs of administering the Applying our understanding of developments in the business and underlying policies.
the impact of changes in methodology on the selection of assumptions: The key economic assumption is credit risk Comparing changes in methodology to our expectations derived that is based on the Groups view of from market experience: and expected future investment defaults.
Evaluating the analysis of the movements in insurance liabilities during the year, including consideration of whether the Calculation error and data capture movements were in line with the methodology and assumptions The Group uses complex actuarial models to adopted.
There istherisk that the modelling does not Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience: appropriately reflect the model Evaluating the evidence used to prepare the Groups mortality specifications and or the product features experience investigation, together with industry data on due to incorrect or incomplete data input expectations of future mortality improvements and assessing into the model and or unauthorised or whether this supports the assumptions adopted.
erroneous changes to the models.
Assessing whether the expense assumptions reflect the expected future costs of administering the underlying policies by analysing current year unit costs, considering the expected future level of expense inflation and testing the appropriateness of the Groups best estimate of future cost savings based on management actions and forecast budgets.
Assessing the credit risk assumptions and appropriateness of the Groups methodology used to determine the liquidity premium applied to the risk-free rate, by reference to industry practice and our expectations derived from market experience.
Independent reperformance: Using our own valuation models to calculate the insurance liability balance for a sample of policies across the reserves andcompare to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Considering whether the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of insurance liabilities appropriately represent the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Our results We found the valuation of insurance liabilities to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Financial Statements 81 The risk Our response Valuation of loans secured Subjective valuation We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing our by residential mortgages The loans are measured at fair value procedures in this area.
Our procedures included: 2017: 6,833 million, determined through projecting future 2016: 6,430 million.
discounted cash flows using internally Control design and performance: developed models.
The Group is required to Testing of the design, implementation and operating The risk compared to the use judgement in the selection of key effectiveness of key controls over the process to review prior year is unchanged.
assumptions in determining the projected andapprove the estimates and assumptions used in the cash flows and in determining the liquidity valuationprocess.
Refer to page 50 premium applied to the discount rate.
AuditCommittee report, Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience: page 94 accounting policy The key assumptions include property price Evaluating the appropriateness of the property price inflation andpages 107 to 111 inflation, property price volatility, mortality assumption used within the valuation process by assessing the financialdisclosures.
determined by reference to the Groups own expected property price inflation with reference to market data experience and expected levels of future and industry benchmarks.
mortality and the liquidity premium added Assessing the reasonableness of the property price volatility to the swap curve.
assumption by considering historic volatility in property prices and comparing the assumption to industry benchmarks.
A small change in these assumptions can Evaluating the evidence used to prepare the Groups mortality have a significant impact on the overall experience analysis, together with industry data on expectations valuation.
of future mortality improvements to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions adopted.
Assessing the appropriateness of the liquidity premium applied to the risk-free rate, by reference to industry practice and our expectations derived from market experience.
Independent reperformance: Using our own valuation models to value the loans secured by residential mortgages balance for a sample of policies and comparing to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages, in particular the sensitivity of the valuations adopted to alternative outcomes.
Our results We found the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Valuation of reinsurance Accounting treatment Our procedures included: assets anddeposits The Group needs to determine, based on the received frominsurers underlying cash flows and complex treaty Accounting analysis: Reinsurance Asset terms, whether the deposits received from Evaluating the classification of deposits from reinsurers under 2017: 5,285 million, reinsurers should be accounted for as relevant accounting standards as insurance contracts or 2016: 6,057 million.
insurance contracts or as financial liabilities.
financial liabilities based on the underlying cash flows and terms The classification of the treaty impacts the of the treaties.
Deposits received valuation basis applied.
frominsurers We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing our 2017: 4,556 million, Subjective valuation procedures in this area.
Reinsurance assets and deposits received from insurers are measured at fair value.
Methodology implementation: The risk compared to the The valuation of the reinsurance assets is Comparing the methodology applied for the valuation of the prior year is unchanged.
sensitive to movements in mortality and reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurers to economic assumptions and the valuation of confirm that it is appropriate and is consistent with the terms Refer to page 50 the deposits received from reinsurers is and conditions set out in the reinsurance treaties.
AuditCommittee report, driven by the discount rate applied to the page 94 accounting policy related cash flows.
The calculation of these Expectation vs outcome: andpages 113 to 117 fair values involves significant judgement Assessing the Groups analysis of the movements in reinsurance financialdisclosures.
assets and deposits received from reinsurers liabilities with reference to the movement in policyholder liabilities driven by changes in mortality and economic assumptions, increase in new business and recorded claims.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurers, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Our results We found the valuation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurers to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 82 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Just Group plc The risk Our response Recoverability of Parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Companys investment The carrying amount of the Parent insubsidiaries Companys investments in subsidiaries Tests of detail: ParentSpecific Risk represents 91% 2016: 87% of the Comparing the carrying amount of a sample of the highest value 2017: 1,135 million, Companys total assets.
Their recoverability investments, representing 100% 2016: 100% of the total 2016:1,124 million.
is not at a high risk of significant investment balance with the relevant subsidiaries financial misstatement or subject to significant statements to identify whether their net assets, being an The risk compared to the judgement.
However, due to their approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in prior year is unchanged.
materiality in the context of the Parent excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those Company financial statements, this is subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Refer to page 50 considered to be the area that had the AuditCommittee report, greatest effect on our overall Parent Assessing subsidiary audits: page 129 accounting Company audit.
Assessing the audit work performed on that sample of those policy and subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those financialdisclosures.
subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Following the acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc For the residual components, we performed analysis at an as at 1 April 2016, we identified acquisition accounting as a aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there key audit matter for the audit of the financial statements of were no significant risks of material misstatements within these.
Just Group plc for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016.
As the risk related to acquisition accounting was an The Group audit team approved component materiality, which was event-driven risk in the prior period and is not related to the set at 8.0 million 31 December 2016: 7.1m, having regard to the audit of the financial statements of Just Group plc for the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The year ended 31 December 2017, we have not assessed this as work on all seven 2016: six components, including the audit of the a significant risk in our current year audit and, therefore, it is Parent Company, was performed by the Group team based at Justs not separately identified in our report this year.
offices in London and Reigate.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a Group net assets Group materiality wholewas set at 11.5m 31 December 2016: 11.5m, 1,740.5m 2016: 1,610.6m 11.5m 2016: 11.5m determined with reference to a benchmark of 2016 Groupnet assets of which it represents 0.7%: 2016:0.7%.
11.5m Whole financial Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as statements materiality a whole was set at 8 million 2016: 7.1 million in line with 2016: 11.5m component materiality, determined by reference to Company net assets, of which it represents 0.8 % 2016: 0.7%.
8.0m Component materiality 2016: 7.1m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.58 million 2016: 0.53m, in addition to other identified misstatements below that threshold that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 26 2016: 28 reporting components, we subjected seven 2016: six to full scope audits for Group Group net assets 0.58m purposes.
Group materiality Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee The components within the scope of our work accounted for 2016: 0.53m the percentages illustrated opposite.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets Key: 99% 96% 96% 2016: 99% 2016: 92% 2016: 98% Key: Full scope for Group audit purposes 31 December 2017 99 92 98 Full scope for Group audit purposes 99 96 96 31 December 2016 Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Financial Statements 83 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out onpage 73 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion onthe financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, indoing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work wehave not identified material misstatements in theother information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in theStrategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports forthe financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 73 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks disclosures on pages 19 to 23 describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by ustothe Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 84 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Just Group plc 7.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital, recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We communicated the identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Daniel Cazeaux Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 14 March 2018
