Our marketplace continued THE COMPETITIVE MARKET In addition to the mega trends, a number of factors are influencing the way we compete in our markets.
Computacenters response to these Market segments Megatrend 4: megatrends We see differing dynamics in different segments Computacenter has a history of reinventing of the IT market.
There is increasing price Shortage of talent itself as its markets have changed, as the pressure in parts of the market where solutions graphic below demonstrates.
are less complex and are typically people and hardware based.
Buying decisions for these Description 19801995 services tend to be driven by customers The critical importance of technology to procurement departments.
We look to counter modern businesses means that demand for Supply Chain led price pressure through increased automation appropriately qualified people outstrips supply.
34 year lifecycle and rightshoring introducing services This makes it more difficult for our customers provided by the right balance of onshore, Configuration to manage their IT services in-house, nearshore and offshore locations.
Conversely, encouraging them to turn to providers such Hardware resale purchasing decisions for more complex, as us for support.
Rollout services end-to-end cloud and software-based solutions are driven by our customers CIO.
Our Maintenance What this means for Computacenter ability to be the friend of the CIO and have an The shortage of people also emphasises the Break fix Service Level Agreements attractive portfolio for their digital workplace, importance to Computacenter of having the Onsite services hybrid IT and cyber security challenges is a key right culture and values, combined with an competitive advantage for us.
attractive workplace and, most important of all, exciting work for our customers, which help Shifting buying centres 19952014 us to attract and retain talent.
The traditional buying centres in our industry Managed Services led are our customers IT and procurement departments.
However, customers are now 35 year contracts shifting to include decision makers representing Proof Extensive bidding their core business units.
In addition, they are 40 per cent of employers globally report that Landing a large and multi-year introducing new roles such as the Chief Digital they are experiencing difficulty filling jobs.
Officer, to bridge the gap between traditional Managed Workplace Service Source: Manpower Groups 11th annual Talent technology sourcing and new models which Pull-through of Supply Chain Shortage Survey.
have business benefits, such as driving Pull-through of Professional Services competitive advantage, at their core.
This shift See pages 26 to 29 for more on how we manage in buying centres requires us to develop new Cross-sell to other Managed Services and develop our people.
service, go-to-market and sales approaches, to ensure we address the requirements of these new decision makers with a compelling, 2014 business-oriented value proposition.
Professional Services led As-a-service, plug-and-play Users: shorter lifecycle of devices apps, consumerisation CIO: cost pressure still and as-a-service demand Business: IT for competitive advantage Cloud-players take business and margins Since 2015, we have positioned Computacenter as a digital service enabler.
Our business is transformation led and we consult with our customers, so we can provide them with tailored solutions to their problems.
08 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OUR REGIONAL MARKETS We go where our clients operate.
Substitutes UK France Germany Organisations that had previously bought their UK economic growth is The French economy appears Germany is benefiting from own networking and datacenter infrastructure relatively robust, despite the to be picking up, after the strong economic growth and are now able to substitute them for cloudReferendum on the UK leaving presidential election, boosted the market includes many based services.
This could affect demand for the European Union.
The IT by domestic investment and multinational customers.
our Supply Chain business over the coming infrastructure services market consumption.
The labour Manufacturers are adopting years.
However, this complexity is also a has declined slightly but will market is recovering only Industrie 4.0, as they positive for us, in our role as a value-added return to low growth.
CIOs are gradually and too many increasingly introduce provider.
It creates opportunities for us to looking for savings in workers lack the necessary technology to streamline their provide consulting and support non-strategic, operational digital skills.
This includes transformational projects, as customers areas and also moving towards positive for IT service providers.
connecting robots to networks, require our help to migrate applications and cloud services with the help of reading data and using analytics workloads to the cloud.
There are to identify improvements, IT also drives our traditional infrastructure growth opportunities in the and enhancing cyber security.
In addition, cloud providers need financial services, retail and Germany has high standards a channel to customers, which we provide.
public sectors, and in of data protection.
large-scale transformation New entrants programmes.
Indian players are increasingly offering more innovative and sophisticated services, such as cloud, analytics and automation, with which they are targeting large European customers.
Several factors differentiate us from these newer entrants.
These include the strength of our customer relationships and the trust they place in us, our close vendor relationships and our digital consulting skills.
We are also able to advise customers on the right mix of onshore, nearshore and offshore locations, and manage that mix for them.
US Belgium Switzerland Our expansion into the US Economic growth in Belgium The Swiss economy is on a started with using a partner has been somewhat subdued slow but steadily improving to service the US Managed but will strengthen going growth curve, as the economy Services footprint of our major forward, due to private increasingly opens to Europe European customers.
We investment and international and the rest of the world.
The subsequently insourced those trade.
Belgiums production Financial sector remains key activities and we are now is deeply embedded in global for both the market and for adding new US capabilities, so value chains and will benefit Computacenter in Switzerland.
we can upsell to our existing from global growth.
customers and target new customers in the US.
Related material: Our performance in 2017 page 36 09 Our marketplace continued OUR CUSTOMER OFFER We consolidate our portfolio of Consult & Change, Source & Deploy and Manage & Transform services into three key value propositions for our customers.
Digital Workplace We design and build user-centric, cloud-enabled and secure digital workplaces, using a complete adoption roadmap to establish the best core End User digital technologies for each customer.
Next Generation Service Desk End User Analytics Client Computing Innovate and Enterprise Mobility Communication & Collaboration Hybrid Cloud IT Content Management deliver our We provide advisory, support and Managed Services for every aspect of our customers Data and Analytics customer offer, cloud requirements.
We work with customers Enterprise Applications to develop their cloud strategy, create and Analytics & Big Data build cloud capability, and manage it to so we succeed Service Management Platforms generate competitive advantage.
Data Management Platforms in the market.
Cloud and Datacenter Server & Storage In this section: Converged & Hyperconverged Our customer offer Cyber Security Infrastructures We deliver a complete Security solution, from Global delivery Software Defined Infrastructures endpoint and infrastructure Security through DevOps Technologies Our differentiation to cyber defence.
Our knowledge and expertise Hybrid Cloud across office and industrial IT underpins our approach to holistic business security, Networking making it an enabler rather than a blocker.
Wireless Networks Local Area Networks Software Defined Networks Datacenter Networks Production Networks Security End Point Security Infrastructure Security Industrial Security Cyber Security Information Security Management Identity & Access Management These offerings are underpinned by our solutions in the categories shown above.
These solutions can be mixed to suit each customer.
For example, we can add Security to the core Engagement and End User & Collaboration elements of Digital Me.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OUR CUSTOMER OFFER GLOBAL DELIVERY OUR DIFFERENTIATION We consolidate our portfolio of Consult & Our standard operating model ensures we The unique value we offer our customers Change, Source & Deploy and Manage & deliver consistent, scalable and cost-efficient comes from five key characteristics.
Transform services into three key value global services, while meeting specific propositions for our customers.
customer needs in each country.
Consult & Change The delivery centres comprise our: 1.
We are the friend of the CIO What we do: We optimise customers The CIO is the key decision maker and budget technology, enabling effective change so they Global Service Desk GSD holder for our services.
We therefore help CIOs Digital Workplace can achieve their IT and business goals.
We to enable their users and businesses.
This Our goal is to provide a faster and smarter We design and build user-centric, cloud-enabled provide in-depth solutions, within or across response to users.
We deliver end-to-end user means addressing customer needs only and secure digital workplaces, using a complete the five technology categories.
Combined with through the CIO and empowering them to meet support, locally and globally, and provide a adoption roadmap to establish the best core End User our project management and transformation follow-the-sun service.
The GSD supports the requirements of their user base, business digital technologies for each customer.
Next Generation Service Desk skills and our customer knowledge, our holistic units or functions, to support their around 1.4 million users, using 30 languages.
End User Analytics solutions actually work within our customers transformation agenda.
Global Infrastructure Operations GIO Enterprise Mobility The scale of our operation means we can 2.
We have absolute focus on our end users Communication & Collaboration How we earn revenue: Consulting The Next Generation Service Desk NGSD and support users and systems anywhere in the Hybrid Cloud IT Content Management engagements range from long-term world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
our Digital Me offering shows that we know We provide advisory, support and Managed transformation programmes to consulting what users want.
Our end user focus is in our From networking components and virtual Services for every aspect of our customers Data and Analytics and implementation projects.
These are servers to user devices, our infrastructure DNA and we have no distracting legacy assets, cloud requirements.
We work with customers Enterprise Applications mostly time and material based but we see such as underused datacenters.
services improve availability and security.
We to develop their cloud strategy, create and Analytics & Big Data a trend towards fixed-price contracts.
have more than 1,500 technical and service build cloud capability, and manage it to Service Management Platforms 3.
We have a culture of customer intimacy management experts, in six shared services generate competitive advantage.
Data Management Platforms Source & Deploy centres, working for more than 200 customers.
Our sales and service managers interact What we do: We reduce cost, complexity almost continuously with customers, especially Cloud and Datacenter and risk in the IT supply chain, from product Global Network Operations Centre GNOC where we have a Managed Services contract.
Server & Storage selection, benchmarking and procurement This contributes to close, long-term customer Our GNOC helps optimise our customers Converged & Hyperconverged to build management and deployment.
Our network availability, to enable productive end relationships.
Cyber Security Infrastructures long-term customer relationships and broad users.
It is the hub of our operational delivery We deliver a complete Security solution, from Software Defined Infrastructures vendor coverage make us a one-stop capability, allowing us to deliver managed 4.
We offer end-to-end solutions across endpoint and infrastructure Security through DevOps Technologies value-added reseller.
technologies Network and Security services to more than to cyber defence.
Our knowledge and expertise Hybrid Cloud 50 customers around the globe.
The GNOC From converged infrastructure and Cloud to across office and industrial IT underpins our How we earn revenue: We have a good mix user productivity and Security, we have the employs more than 200 accredited approach to holistic business security, Networking of large and multi-year frame contracts, networking engineers.
technological solutions and capabilities making it an enabler rather than a blocker.
Wireless Networks project-based sourcing and continuous customers need for an excellent user Local Area Networks procurement activities.
Our consultants cut across Software Defined Networks technology silos and implement solutions We extend our engineering coverage for our Datacenter Networks Manage & Transform customers to over 70 countries worldwide end-to-end.
Production Networks What we do: We maintain, support, transform through an international partner network.
and manage our customers IT infrastructures Our international partners provide resources 5.
We partner along the service lifecycle Security and operations, improving quality and flexibility Some providers specialise in reselling, and services to extend our services under our End Point Security while reducing costs.
Our Services extend from full control and responsibility globally.
Our customers Infrastructure Security the digital and physical workplace to the appreciate that we can support their Industrial Security datacenter, network and cloud.
Our Global Cyber Defence Center transformation, with a full service portfolio Cyber Security Infrastructure Operations and award-winning which spans planning, sourcing and building We identify and highlight existing or potential Information Security Management Global Service Desk enable us to support users security breaches, hacks, malware or to running their IT infrastructure.
Dedicated transformation teams vulnerabilities and ensure that they are minimise disruption and ensure seamless managed through to resolution.
In doing so we The shift to digital makes these characteristics business take-on.
increasingly essential for service providers.
At help our customers to comply to increasingly These offerings are underpinned by our stringent compliance standards as well as Computacenter, we are blending them for our solutions in the categories shown above.
These How we earn revenue: We increasingly sell a customers benefit, so we are their preferred protecting users from cyber-crime and solutions can be mixed to suit each customer.
defined Managed Service, with related service ensuring that our customers businesses partner for Making Digital Work.
For example, we can add Security to the core level agreements and either fixed or perremain productive.
Engagement and End User & Collaboration service pricing.
Where customers want more elements of Digital Me.
flexibility or specific skills, we also provide support and body shopping.
We also offer product lifecycle and maintenance services, for example on a price per device.
