170 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC OPINION In our opinion: Fresnillo plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Fresnillo plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Parent Company statement of cash flows for the year for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements we include our consideration of a prohibited non-audit service provided to the Company below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 171 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 34-47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on pages 140 and 141 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 49 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 48 and 49 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition Valuation of the Silverstream contract Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes Recoverable amount of mining assets Potential tax uncertainties arising from tax authority inspections and changes in legislation Recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries Parent Company Only Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components, being the 4 operating mining units and the Parent Company.
These components accounted for: 100% of Revenues: 96% of Profit before tax, excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on the sale of concessions: and, 82% of Total assets.
In addition, we performed specified procedures on specific balances at a further 5 components.
These components accounted for: 100% of the Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on the sale of concessions: 4% of Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on the sale of concessions: and, 16% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$31.0m which represents 5% of forecast profit before tax, before Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on the sale of concessions.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
172 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED In the table below, each key audit matter is attributed an icon which is used to map these to our components in scope in the subsequent section below.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOGNITION OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, INCLUDING REVENUE RECOGNITION All of the Groups current year revenue from the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag and precipitates US$2,101.6 million: 2016: US$1,905.5 million, and a significant amount of its expenses incurred US$111.6 million: 2016: US$84.0 million, arise from transactions with related parties.
These related parties are principally subsidiaries of the Groups direct parent, Industrias Peoles Peoles.
Principal transactions include the sale of goods to the Met-Mex Peoles refinery, administrative services received and the Silverstream contract.
There is a risk that, if not at arms length or not reflecting the goods or services provided in the period, such transactions could be used to manipulate earnings or to distribute profits to the Groups parent.
There is also a risk that revenues are inappropriately recognised as a result of incorrect cut-off or inappropriate measurement of product sold.
There is an ongoing focus by the Mexican tax authorities on transfer pricing as reflected by the current tax inspections.
There is therefore the potential risk of tax exposures arising from related party transactions.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains Related party transactions are disclosed in note 27 to the consistent with the prior year.
consolidated financial statements, Revenues in note 4 and relevant accounting policies in note 2.
We have not made significant changes to our audit response compared to the prior year.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 5 components, which covered 100% of the aggregate risk amount relating to revenue and 61% relating to related party expenses.
In addition we performed specified procedures in 1 component which covered 38% of the aggregate risk amount relating to related party expenses.
We also performed specified procedures over the Silverstream contract, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Identification of related We evaluated the appropriateness of managements process for identifying, recording and parties and related party reporting related party transactions.
transactions We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand the nature of the transactions.
Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course of business.
Revenue recognition On a sample basis we performed testing to verify physical deliveries of product in the year.
We performed revenue cut-off testing, by reference to shipment dates.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting for embedded derivatives arising from the provisional pricing terms in sales contracts.
We obtained an understanding of the basis of the treatment and refining charges negotiated between the Group and Peoles for the current year, these being deducted from revenue.
We compared actual revenues on a disaggregated basis to detailed expectations developed based on production in the year and market prices for relevant metals to identify and understand variances for further investigation.
Related party expenses On a sample basis we tested related party expenses against underlying contractual terms.
We utilised data analysis tools to interrogate entire data sets for potential related party transactions.
We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income statement line items impacted by related party transactions to corroborate that there was no evidence of manipulation.
Silverstream contract We tested a sample of cash receipts in respect of silver that is payable under the contract in the year.
The valuation of the Silverstream contract is discussed separately below.
Accuracy of disclosures We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the results of our audit procedures.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 173 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTER Identification of related We, along with our internal transfer pricing specialist, obtained and reviewed the most recent parties and related party report for 2016 to management from its transfer pricing specialists.
transactions We reviewed a letter provided by the specialist to management in February 2018 providing an update with respect to transfer pricing applied in 2017.
We met with the specialist to further understand the content of the letter and to assess the conclusions reached.
We assessed the specialist as a specialist engaged by management.
Revenue recognition We developed detailed expectations for production volumes based on our interviews with management, published production reports and internal reporting to the Executive Committee.
We performed analytical review procedures applying a low variance threshold, comparing revenue and production costs against the expectations we developed.
We used EYs bespoke data analysis tools to search for terms indicating related parties and prepare a summary of transactions related to known related-party vendors and customers, which we compared to the schedule provided by management to the Audit Committee.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our procedures did not identify issues with the identification, recording or reporting of related party transactions.
We concluded that revenue recognition in the year is appropriate, including the treatment of related provisional pricing terms.
In respect of transfer pricing in transactions with related parties, we consider that the work undertaken by managements transfer pricing specialist is appropriate for Mexican tax law and also to support the appropriateness of the pricing applied to these transactions for financial reporting considerations.
KEY AUDIT MATTER VALUATION OF THE SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT The valuation of the Silverstream contract US$538.9 million at 31 December 2017: 2016: US$467.5 million, a derivative financial instrument, is estimated by management using a discounted cash flow model.
Key assumptions are the estimation of the reserves and resources and the related production profile of the Sabinas mine owned and operated by Peoles, future silver prices and the discount rate applied.
These assumptions require management judgment and estimation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions which may result in material revaluation effects in the financial statements US$113.7 million pre-tax gain in 2017: 2016: US$133.5 million pre-tax gain.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains The nature of the Silverstream contract and related valuation consistent with the prior year.
considerations are disclosed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements and the relevant accounting policies We adapted our procedures to consider the findings of a in note 2. specialist engaged by Peoles to assess its estimation process of the mineral reserves and resources of the Sabinas mine in the current year.
174 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed specified procedures over the valuation of the Silverstream contract at 31 December 2017 and related income statement revaluation effects.
These procedures covered 100% of the risk amount.
Valuation model In conjunction with our valuation specialists, we evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation approach and related model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract under accounting standards.
Reserves and resources We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist in order to understand the assumptions used and production profile in the estimation of reserves and resources and movements in the estimation in the year.
of the Sabinas mine We issued instructions to the auditor of Peoles to perform procedures and report to us in respect of the reserves and resources estimate and mine plan of the Sabinas mine.
These procedures included: conducting walkthroughs to confirm our understanding of Peoles managements processes to estimate quantities of reserves and resources and to develop the Sabinas mine plan: testing of certain key Peoles controls which address the risks associated with the estimation of reserves and resources quantities and accuracy of the resulting mine plan: gaining an understanding of reasons for changes in estimates of reserves and resources in the year: assessing the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of Peoles internal specialists involved in the estimation of reserves and resources quantities: and evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of inputs to the reserves and resources estimates and Sabinas mine plan as at 31 December 2017.
In the current year Peoles has engaged SRK Consulting SRK, to perform certain procedures over its reserve and resource estimation process.
We have therefore also instructed the auditor of Peoles to: gain an understanding of the scope of these procedures: review the conclusions reached by the external specialist and assess whether there are any implications for the estimate of Sabinas reserves and resources and related mine plan as at 31 December 2017: and assess the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of the specialist.
We discussed the results of the above procedures and reviewed key working papers.
We performed sensitivity analysis on inferred resources included in the mine plan.
Key economic assumptions With assistance from our valuation specialists we corroborated key economic assumptions in the valuation in the valuation, including future silver prices, foreign exchange rates and the discount rate applied.
This included comparison to market data to consider the appropriateness of silver price and discount rate assumptions when considered together in the valuation model and analysis of the consistency of assumptions to other accounting estimates.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the combination of silver price assumptions and discount rate.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The valuation model is consistent with that used in prior periods and we consider this appropriate for the nature of this long term derivative contract.
We highlighted the sensitivity of the valuation to economic input assumptions, most significantly silver price and discount rate.
We consider that both managements long term silver price and discount rate assumptions are at the lower end of respective ranges considered appropriate by EY valuation specialists.
We reported sensitivity analysis to demonstrate the financial impact of changing these assumptions.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 175 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTER DISCLOSURES, PROVISIONS AND ASSET RECOVERABILITY ARISING FROM THE EL BAJO EJIDO LITIGATION AND LAND DISPUTES The El Bajo litigation and land disputes may create uncertainty around the Groups ability to realise the carrying values of impacted assets in the Groups balance sheet and may give rise to further asset impairment.
Related assets are capitalised mining costs and inventory held in leaching pads at the impacted mine site.
The assessment of the recoverability of impacted assets and appropriate disclosure or provisions in the financial statements requires judgement about the future legal outcome of claims and land disputes and estimates of any related financial impacts.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains Contingencies in respect of the El Bajo ejido litigation and consistent with the prior year.
land disputes are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements and the relevant accounting policies We have not made significant changes to our audit in note 2. response compared to the prior year.
KEY AUDIT MATTER OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 1 component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Recoverability of We assessed managements conclusion that there is sufficient likelihood of future economic non-current assets benefits flowing from the use of assets impacted by the El Bajo land disputes that continue to be carried on the Groups balance sheet.
We evaluated managements assessment of related indicators of impairment in respect of those assets.
Inventory valuation We assessed managements estimation of the recoverable value of inventory that is impacted by land disputes, including corroborating gold price assumptions to market data.
Future legal outcome We evaluated managements assessment of the current status of the El Bajo ejido litigation of claims and claims against the Group and considered whether there is a requirement for any provision or related disclosures under accounting standards.
We obtained and read independent legal confirmation letters from the Groups external lawyers advising on these issues, and assessed these for consistency with managements conclusions.
We assessed these lawyers as specialists engaged by management.
We assessed the Groups internal legal counsel as a management specialist.
We reviewed related disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts to consider their appropriateness and completeness.
Management override As the evaluation of related controls requires the evaluation of the assumptions used in, and the output of, that process, we do not seek to rely on these controls.
As such, we did not specifically address the risk of management override of controls in this area but rather increased the level of challenge when performing our substantive procedures.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We concluded that, based on the facts and circumstances of the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes, managements assessment that no provision is required and that the impacted assets are recoverable at 31 December 2017 is appropriate.
The legal confirmations we received supported managements judgements in this area.
We concluded that the carrying value of related assets is appropriate.
We consider that the disclosure in note 26, Contingencies, is appropriate.
176 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF MINING ASSETS The identification of indicators of impairment is judgmental.
When an impairment test is performed, the key assumptions underpinning managements assessment of the recoverable amount of mining assets are reserves and resources and related mine plans and production profiles, estimated future operating and capital expenditure, future commodity prices, exchange rates and the discount rates applied.
The estimation of mineral reserves and resources quantities of the Groups mines requires significant judgment and estimation.
The Groups reserves and resources are audited by SRK, a specialist engaged by management.
Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in impairment of property plant and equipment US$2,448.6 million, 2016 US$2,180.2 million.
There is however no impairment taken prior years that may be reversed.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains Managements assessment of the judgement and estimation consistent with the prior year.
required is set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, with results of managements assessment We have not made significant changes to our audit for impairment in note 12.
The reserves and resources response compared to the prior year.
tables are presented on pages 274-278, after the Parent Company notes.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 4 components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Indicators of impairment We reviewed managements identification of indicators of impairment under accounting and methodology used to standards.
estimate recoverable values We assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each mining asset for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent with accounting standards.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each asset.
Estimation process for We walked through the process of the estimation of the reserves and resources quantities.
reserves and resources We identified key controls in this process and obtained evidence of their implementation.
External specialists We assessed SRK as a specialist engaged by management.
engaged by management Through discussions with SRK, we have gained an understanding of the scope of their work to verify that this was appropriate.
We read the report of the external specialist and gained an understanding of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year.
Use of reserves and We tested that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately applied resources in financial to relevant areas of the Groups financial statements, including in assessing the recoverable statement calculations value of mining assets.
Key internal assumptions We agreed related production profiles to the current mine plans for each mine and considered used in managements their consistency with our understanding of future plans at the mines obtained through estimate of the recoverable interviews with both operating and senior management.
values of mining assets We assessed operating and capital costs included in the cash flow forecasts for consistency with current operating costs and forecast mine production.
Key external assumptions Working with our valuation specialists we have assessed managements assumptions used in managements relating to future metals prices and discount rates, comparing these to market data and estimate of the recoverable also for consistency with other estimates used in the financial statements.
values of mining assets We have performed sensitivity analysis on managements calculated recoverable values for alternative assumptions around silver and gold prices and the discount rate applied.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 177 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTER KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We assessed SRK as an appropriate specialist engaged by management for the purposes of auditing the reserves and resources of the Group.
We confirmed that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately used in relevant financial statement calculations.
We consider the approach to determining the recoverable value of mining assets tested for impairment to be appropriate.
Our procedures confirmed that the reserves and resources and related production profiles used in the impairment testing are consistent with the estimates audited by SRK and respective mine plans.
Our procedures confirmed that the estimates of operating and capital costs are consistent with the production profiles of respective mines and related mine plans.
We concluded that the carrying values of mining assets are recoverable at 31 December 2017.
KEY AUDIT MATTER POTENTIAL TAX UNCERTAINTIES ARISING FROM TAX AUTHORITY INSPECTIONS AND CHANGES IN LEGISLATION This is an area on which the audit team, including senior members thereof, has spent considerable time during the year as these areas have developed.
Constituent areas discussed below have not resulted in provisions at 31 December 2017 but are disclosed as contingent liabilities.
Tax authority inspections As disclosed in note 26, Contingencies, in the consolidated financial statements, in 2015 the tax authorities SAT initiated inspections of Minera Penmont for 2012 and 2013 which are ongoing.
During the current year SAT initiated a number of further inspections at certain of the Groups subsidiaries.
The Company has provided information to SAT with respect to the inspections initiated in the year.
However, to date no findings have been raised by SAT.
Changes in legislation Effective 1 January 2017 there were changes in Mexican income tax and VAT requirements relating to contractors, a significant area of expenditure for Fresnillo.
Fresnillo now has an obligation to ensure that contractors are compliant with their own tax obligations, including employment tax.
If Fresnillo does not obtain and retain sufficient evidence of a contractors compliance, the Company is at risk of not being permitted to deduct costs related to the contractor for income tax purposes or recover the related input VAT.
The tax authorities committed to establish an online portal to facilitate compliance.
This was only made available in December 2017.
As such there has been a lack of clarity around the implementation of the requirements for 2017 until late in the year.
In late 2017 the related legislation was updated, to clarify that registration by a contractor on the online portal by the end of 2018 was sufficient to discharge any 2017 compliance obligations for Fresnillo.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area has Contingencies in respect of taxation are disclosed in note 26 increased compared with the prior year.
to the consolidated financial statements and the relevant accounting policies in note 2.
We have designed and executed specific audit responses to address the risk in the current year.
178 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in all impacted components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Tax inspections Throughout the year we maintained an understanding of the progress of inspections in order to understand the status of inspections started in 2015 as well as areas of information requested for new inspections and the status of subsequent correspondence with the tax authorities.
We read the correspondence with tax authorities relating to the tax inspections and, where relevant, legal opinions supporting tax treatments.
For elements of inspections that were progressed during the year, we critically inspected correspondence with the SAT to substantiate managements views on any remaining exposure at 31 December 2017.
We evaluated managements process to determine any remaining exposure and likelihood of tax treatments being accepted by the tax authorities.
We read the related disclosures in the financial statements assessing whether they accurately reflect our understanding of the status of the investigations and managements assessment of potential exposure.
Contractors fiscal Using our tax specialists we assessed the implications of the new legislation and its compliance implementation as this evolved during the year.
We understood the Companys process for seeking compliance with the regulation and assessed its adequacy.
We held meetings with management to understand its progress in obtaining evidence of contractor compliance throughout the year.
On a sample basis we checked the evidence obtained by management in support of contractors compliance during 2017.
Following the clarification of legislation in late 2017 we assessed managements process to achieve contractor registration on the portal, and the subsequent extent of actual registration.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We conclude that managements process for evaluating tax exposures is appropriate and that the conclusions reached are supportable.
We conclude that the disclosure of contingent liabilities is appropriate at 31 December 2017.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 179 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES PARENT COMPANY ONLY Investments in subsidiaries US$7,094 million, 2016 US$6,958 million are more sensitive to changes in recoverable value than the Groups underlying mining assets because these investments were re-measured at fair value in 2008 when the Group was established ahead of its Initial Public Offering.
The principal driver of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries is the estimated value of underlying mining assets held by the Groups subsidiaries.
Refer to related considerations in the related key audit matter above.
In addition, management estimates the recoverable value of exploration projects in considering the recoverable value of subsidiaries.
Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in either impairment or reversals of impairment taken in prior years.
required is set out in note 2 to the Parent Company financial statements, with managements assessment of investments We have not made significant changes to our audit in subsidiaries included in note 5. response compared to the prior year.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 1 component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Key internal assumptions We have assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of used in managements each investment for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent estimate of the recoverable with accounting standards.
value Refer to the key audit matter above with respect to procedures performed relating to the recoverable value of mining assets.
We have evaluated managements approach to valuing exploration prospects.
Key external assumptions Refer to the key audit matter above with respect to procedures performed relating to the used in managements recoverable value of mining assets.
estimate of the recoverable We have performed sensitivity analysis on managements calculated recoverable values value for alternative assumptions around silver and gold prices and the discount rate applied.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We concluded that the carrying values of mining assets, the principal driver of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries, are reasonable.
We agree with managements assessment of the recoverable value of investments in subsidiaries and related income statement effects in the year.
180 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL CHANGES AS COMPARED TO THE PRIOR YEAR ARE DETAILED BELOW: In the prior year we identified Reserves and resources as a separate key audit matter.
In the current year we consider this as a component of a new Key Audit Matter: The recoverable amount of mining assets and as a component of Recoverability of investment in subsidiaries.
In response to an increased number of tax inspections and changes to income tax and VAT in respect of contractors we identified a new Key Audit Matter: Potential tax uncertainties arising from tax authority inspections and changes in legislation.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile and the organisation of the Group and the effectiveness of group-wide controls and other factors such as the results of the work of Internal Audit when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components 2016: 5 full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
These components are the 4 operating mining units in Mexico and the Parent Company.
In some instances operating mining units include more than one operating mine: the Fresnillo mining unit includes the Fresnillo and the San Julin mines and the Penmont mining unit includes the Herradura, Noche Buena and Soldeda & Dipolos mines.
We also performed specified audit procedures on specific account balances in a further 5 components 2016: 5.
The procedures were on those account balances within those components which we deemed to be significant either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
These accounts included taxation, mine closure provisions, property, plant and equipment and cash and cash equivalents and all balances relating to the Silverstream contract.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures represented: Key Full scope Specified procedures Other procedures 2 2 4 104 0 100 100 100 100 2 2 16 16 96 82 82 -4 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Group revenue Silverstream revaluation effect Groups profit before tax Total assets Excludes sales, Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on sale of concessions.
The audit scope of components at which we perform specified procedures may not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage reflected above.
The remaining components together represent an effect on the Groups Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on disposal of concessions of less than 1% 2016: 1 % and 2% of total assets 2016: 2%.
For these components, we perform other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR There were no significant changes in our scoping as compared to the prior year.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 181 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS All of the Groups significant operations are in Mexico and are audited by one local team under our direct supervision.
Work performed by Primary team One component team under our direct supervision Full scope components Parent Company Components on which specified Silverstream contract audit procedures are performed In respect of the valuation of the Silverstream contract, we perform primary procedures directly.
The component team performs certain supporting procedures regarding cash receipts, and the auditor of Peoles provides support in respect of procedures on the estimation of reserve and resource quantities and the related mine plan at the Sabinas mine.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by the component auditor operating under our instruction.
Of the 5 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the 5 components at which specified procedures were performed, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited Mexico four times during the audit, during both the planning and execution phases, with members of the team working with and supervising the component team in Mexico for a number of weeks over several visits.
These visits involved discussion and oversight of the component team audit approach, consideration of any accounting and auditing issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers, meeting with management and attending closing meetings.
In addition, in the current year members of the primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited three of the groups mining operations.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Senior members of the component team attended a Global Team Planning Event in the planning phase of the audit, the Post Interim Event after hard close procedures and interacted regularly with the local team between visits to Mexico as appropriate.
The primary engagement team is predominantly composed of Spanish speakers in order to further enhance our interactions with both the component team and management.
The primary team was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
For certain procedures, in particular areas involving significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work ourselves with support where required from the component team.
In other cases, we reviewed key working papers including, but not limited to, the risk areas described above.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
US$ million 800 700 113.7 24.8 741.5 600 500 603 400 300 200 100 0 Profit Silverstream Concession Basis for before revaluation sale materiality tax effect 182 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED We determined materiality for the Group to be US$31.0 million 2016: US$29.2 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax prior to Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on sale of concessions, a one-off material item subject to roundings.
This is a consistent basis to 2016 there being no gain on sale of concessions in 2016.
We believe that this measure of profit represents one of the principal considerations for members of the Group, particularly as the Silverstream revaluation effects are principally non-cash in nature and the gain on sale of concession is a one off transaction.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and updated its calculation for the actual financial results of the year.
This did not result in any changes to materiality.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$70.5 million 2016: US59.3 million, which is 1% of equity.
The materiality of the Parent Company is higher than that of the Group, reflective of the Parent Companys primary role being that of a holding company.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$23.2 million 2016: US$21.9 million.
We based this judgement on factors including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements and the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The performance materiality allocated to full-scope components in the current year is set out in the graph to the right.
Allocated performance materiality increased in respect of all components, reflecting the overall performance of the Group and the individual contributions of the components to that performance.
Specifically in respect of the Fresnillo mining unit, we note that the increase in performance materiality reflects the San Julin mine becoming fully operational during 2017.
Performance materiality US$m Risks 21.9 Fresnillo group 23.3 133.5 718.2 18.6 584.7 Fresnillo plc 19.8 14.3 Penmont mining unit 11.6 13.2 Saucito mining unit 11.6 6.9 Fresnillo mining unit 15.1 Key 5.5 2015 Cienega mining unit 5.8 2016 The icons correspond to the key audit matters set out above.
Audit procedures in respect of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries are performed at the performance materiality of the standalone parent financial statements.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 183 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.5m 2016: US$1.5m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 169 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 134-146 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 122 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
184 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 169, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group.
We determined that the most significant which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those related to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code, regulations impacting mining operations including mining laws, environmental and labour regulations and tax and employee profit sharing requirements in Mexico.
We understood how Fresnillo plc is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries to management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it is considered there was a susceptibility of fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programs and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free of fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 185 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS Following a competitive tender process and the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed as auditors by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter on 28 July 2017.
We were appointed by the company at the AGM on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 10 years, covering periods from our initial appointment in 2008 through to the year ended 31 December 2017.
In January 2017, we identified that non-audit services related to December 2016 prohibited under the new FRC Ethical Standard had been undertaken.
These related to less than 10 hours of tax services related to payroll tax for an immaterial subsidiary of the group.
No amounts related to these services have been recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
We, therefore, consider this to be a minor breach of the Ethical Standard and we do not consider our independence to be impaired.
We notified the Audit Committee of this breach in February 2017.
The Audit Committee agreed with our conclusion that the breach is minor and that our independence is not impaired.
The Committees discussion of this breach is set out on page 139.
The evaluation of whether our independence was impaired included consideration of the safeguards to independence in connection with the service specifically that the work was undertaken by a separate team from the audit team and responsibility for the related tax calculation was taken by a competent member of the groups management.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Daniel Trotman Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 27 February 2018 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Fresnillo plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
