Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the Members of NMC Health Plc OPINION In our opinion: NMC Health plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of NMC Health plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 41 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 28 to 31 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 83 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 82 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 83 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
86 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Revenue recognition Accounting for acquisitions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 21 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 2 components The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of Profit before tax, 95% of Revenue and 98% of Total assets Materiality Overall group materiality of US$10.69mn which represents 5% of 2017 Profit before tax KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We tested key controls over revenue recognition, including the Based on the audit timing of revenue recognition.
Where we relied on the controls procedures performed, we Group Revenue tested by internal audit we satisfied ourselves about their are satisfied that revenue 2017: US$1,603.4mn, objectivity, independence and professional skills.
We discussed recognition is appropriate 2016: US$1,220.8mn.
the audit plan and audit program with the internal auditors, and that the Group has reviewed their testing of controls and re-performed a sample of appropriately adhered to Refer to the Financial summary their work.
We also independently tested an additional sample.
their revenue recognition and highlights Report page 17 : policies, including the Accounting policies page 105 : We performed substantive audit procedures including testing a determination of whether and Note 7 of the Consolidated sample of transactions, analytical review procedures including the Group is acting as agent Financial Statements page 120 developments in patient numbers per facility and cut-off tests rather than as principal.
to check that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate The Group has a number of accounting period.
For IVF revenues we tested managements We audited the impact revenue streams relating to its estimate as to cut off of completed IVF phases.
assessment prepared by Healthcare and Distribution the company of the new segments including pharmacy Confirmation letters from key customers were obtained, reporting standard IFRS 15 sales and sales of goods, hospital including health insurance providers as well as an additional on the Groups accounting and clinic revenues, over the representative sample.
Reconciling items were traced back to policies.
As a result of this counter sales and In Vitro original documentation or corroborated to resubmissions made work we identified that the Fertilisation IVF.
new reporting standard will have an immaterial The following are the risks: For customer volume discounts we ensured the completeness impact on the Groups There is a risk of improper and accuracy of the provision amount and accounting through financial results.
revenue recognition, particularly post year end credit testing, by reviewing the customer with regard to cut-off at period agreements and verifying the conditions for the discounts.
Supplier agreements are often We reviewed a sample of material supplier agreements and complex which could lead to accounting for the supplier income including fees and discounts inaccurate accounting or by reviewing the agreements, verifying the data of conditions conditions for recognition of the for the discounts being met and vouched the amounts supplier income, including fees recognised to invoices and cash receipt.
and discounts, not being met.
Management may incorrectly We reviewed a sample of new distribution agreements entered determine whether the Group into during the year and revenue sharing contracts with doctors is acting as principal or agent in newly acquired businesses to verify that the Groups in certain arrangements such determination that they are acting in a capacity of a principal as distribution agreements with rather than an agent is appropriate considering the balance key suppliers and revenue of risk and rewards.
We obtained assurance over the recognition of revenue Revenue recognition is through audit work on accounts receivable specifically by impacted as insurance reviewing the rejection rates based on historical experience providers may reject the and have verified that receivable balances as at year end are claims made which requires presented at their recoverable amount.
management to assess the percentage of rejections and We checked the Groups consistency and adherence to their defer revenue.
revenue recognition policies including the impact of new Different accounting practices reporting standard IFRS 15 and we agreed that these policies of new acquisitions could result are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
in a misalignment with group accounting policies.
The overall risk of revenue recognition has remained stable in the current year.
88 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Accounting for acquisitions We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreements Based on the audit and other relevant documentation to understand the terms procedures we have The Group recognised goodwill and conditions of the acquisitions which took place in the year.
performed, we concur with of US$471.6mn 2016: US$233.9mn the Groups accounting for and intangible assets of We assessed the judgements applied in determining all acquisitions above our US$17.3mn 2016: US$25.5mn whether acquisitions represented an acquisition of an asset performance materiality.
in respect of the acquisitions or a business combination.
This involved assessing whether or made in the current year.
not the entities and the assets acquired constitute the carrying We have reviewed the on of a business.
business combinations Three acquisitions made during disclosures in respect of the year seven in total, included Where transactions met the definition of a business the acquisitions which as full audit scope based on the combination we audited the management assessment of the completed in 2017 and we materiality and related risks, assets and liabilities acquired and the allocation of the purchase believe that these are represent 96% of the recognised consideration to these and the resultant goodwill by performing appropriate and materially goodwill and intangible assets.
the following procedures: in compliance with the We read the due diligence reports and audited the opening requirements of IFRS 3 The following are the key balance sheets for acquired entities.
audit matters: We performed procedures on the purchase price allocation, The contractual arrangements assessed the appropriateness of the recognition of We have also verified can be complex and subject intangible assets, challenged the consideration of the appropriateness of to different legal environments.
valuation inputs and the valuation methodology.
disclosures for the material This requires management We verified that the consideration transferred, and where business combinations to apply judgement in relevant contingent consideration, was appropriately including purchase determining whether calculated in accordance with contractual arrangements.
of minority interest a transaction represents We assessed managements judgements in respect of completed in 2018 an acquisition of an asset what arrangements should be accounted for as part of the and appropriateness or a business combination business combination and those that should be accounted of the period in which in accordance with IFRS 3. for separately from the business combination.
the Group obtained Estimates and judgements We assessed whether the Group is exposed, or has rights, control of the acquired made in the recognition of an to variable returns and has the ability to affect those returns entities and applicable acquisition as a business through its power over the investee as at the date upon regulatory approvals.
combination may be which the acquisitions were recognised.
This includes also inappropriate and the valuation an assessment of acquisitions completed early in the of the assets and liabilities following reporting period.
We verified the appropriateness of the consolidation Acquisitions may be recognised adjustments in respect of accounting for these transactions before the Group is exposed, including accounting for acquisitions related costs.
or has rights, to variable returns We verified that disclosure in the financial statements are from its involvement with the in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The overall risk has remained stable in the current year.
In the prior year, our auditors report included the same Key Audit Matters as noted above.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 41 reporting components of the Group, we selected 23 components covering entities within United Arab Emirates UAE, Spain, Denmark, Brazil, Italy, Saudi Arabia and Oman, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 23 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 21 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 2 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for the following percentages of the Group financial statements before consolidation adjustments: Aggregated Profit before tax 99% 2016: 96% Aggregated Revenue 95% 2016: 98% Aggregated Total assets 98% 2016: 99% The components in scope contributed the following percentages of the Group financial statements before consolidation adjustments: Full scope components: 96% 2016: 90% of the aggregated Profit before tax, 92% 2016: 96% of the aggregated Revenue and 97% 2016: 97% of the aggregated Total assets.
Specific scope component: 3% 2016: 6% of the aggregated Profit before tax, 3% 2016: 2% of the aggregated Revenue and 1% 2016: 2% of the aggregated Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts.
Specific scope component testing is primarily focused on the significant risk in relation to revenue recognition however it also included procedures on property and equipment balances and accounts receivables among others.
The remaining 18 components, which are primarily located in the UAE, together represent 1% of the Groups aggregated Profit before Tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR During the year the Group acquired seven entities out of which Al Zahra, Atlas Healthcare and As Salama Hospitals LLC were identified as full scope components.
The other four acquired entities were not in scope this year based on their respective size and risk characteristics including due to being acquired later in the reporting period and as such limiting the impact on 2017 consolidation.
Furthermore, two components which were specific scope components in the prior year were not in scope this year based on their respective size after considering new acquisitions and risk characteristics.
INTEGRATED TEAM STRUCTURE AND INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK.
However, since Group management and the majority of the operations reside in the UAE, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and the UAE.
The Group audit team members from the UAE are also members of selected components teams.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 21 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on two of these directly by the primary audit team and audit procedures on the remaining 19 entities by the component audit teams.
For these components, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Given that the Group operates predominantly in the UAE, the Senior Statutory Auditor with his UK based audit team members travelled to the UAE during three periods to work in an integrated manner with the EY UAE audit team members as part of the half year review, interim and yearend audit.
90 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. During the current year the Senior partner also visited Spain, where the Luarmia S. L. group of companies are based and visited the recently acquired clinic in Brazil.
In addition, the UAE integrated audit team visited the subsidiary in Oman.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, attending the closing meetings, performing site visits to medical facilities, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams in the UAE and Spain as appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level by the Group audit team, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$10.69mn 2016: US$7.81mn, which is 5% 2016: 5% of the Group consolidated Profit before Tax.
We believe that Profit before tax is one of the key performance indicators of the business and a focus of users of the financial statements.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the impact of the newly acquired entities on the Groups profit and organic growth of the legacy entities.
Compared to prior year, Profit before tax was not adjusted for the effect of non-recurring items.
These related to the cost in respect of the acquisitions which, given the continued activities in recent years are no longer deemed as non-recurring.
Had we excluded the one off costs in respect of acquisitions in amount of US$5.97mn, our materiality would have been US$10.83mn.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$5.52mn 2016: US$5.47mn, which is 1% 2016: 1% of Equity.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely US$5.34mn 2016: US$3.9mn.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our expectation of potential misstatements, our risk assessment and changes in the organisation, particularly given the acquisitions which took place during the year.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$1.07mn to US$2.67mn 2016: US$ 0.78mn to US$ 2.34mn.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.53mn 2016: US$0.39mn, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report and includes the information other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
These information are included in the Shareholder Summary information report, Groups Strategic report and Groups Governance report including Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 79.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We also report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 82 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 46 to 48 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 41 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
92 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud including management override, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group.
The group is subject to regulations applicable and specific to their individual markets.
The group operates two different segments i. e. Healthcare and Distribution.
The Healthcare division is regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations which are responsible for monitoring the performance and clinical procedures against its regulations including renewal of operating licences.
The distribution division is present only in the UAE and is, for much of their product range, controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health dealing with pricing and compliance with the regulation of disposal of pharmaceuticals.
The Board is responsible for setting out the Groups strategic risks and the mitigating actions and controls taken against those risks.
We have obtained and reviewed the Risk register which includes the risk of failure to comply with multi regulatory and standards bodies requirements and risk of inadequate data security measures.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved making inquiries with the Group Board members including Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer.
In addition we held inquiry with the groups legal team and obtained independent legal confirmation letters from external legal advisors for each entity country in scope.
We have reviewed minutes of Board meetings and Audit Committee meetings and have tested legal expenses to confirm completeness of known litigations and claims.
In areas where management relies on controls procedures performed by Internal audit, we met with the Internal audit and discussed the Audit plan and or reviewed the results report.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, including how fraud might occur either through individual transaction, transactions with related parties or transactions with a high degree of management judgment or estimate.
We note that revenues from both segments consist of a large numbers of transactions with individual immaterial amounts and a low degree of judgment or estimate.
Our procedures included performing journal entry testing, performing analytical review of disaggregated financial information i. e. revenue movements over the period and location, obtaining a list of related parties and reviewing minutes of various meetings to confirm the completeness of this list.
We have in addition maintained our professional scepticism during the substantive test of transactions including those with new customers and suppliers or those where management in their accounting and valuation applied significant estimates and judgments.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were re-appointed by the company at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 6 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
VICTOR VEGER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2018 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93
