Group financial statements Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc Report on the audit of financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Synthomer plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet and statement of financial position Synthomer plc as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 6.5 million 2016: 6.1 million, based on 5% of underlying profit before taxation Overall company materiality: 5.0 million 2016: 5.0 million, based on 2% of total assets Materiality Audit procedures provide coverage of 88% of revenue, 89% of operating profit and 87% of underlying operating profit Audit scope covers eight countries, performing procedures over 13 entities Financially significant components in the UK, Germany and Malaysia Audit scoping Valuation of Defined Benefit Pension Schemes Provisions for Uncertain Tax Positions Accounting for the acquisition of Oxo Belgium Areas of focus Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 89 Group financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Synthomer plc The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates thatinvolved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation, UK environmental regulations and the EU registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals regulations and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from theevents and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors thatrepresented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of Defined Benefit Pension Schemes We obtained external actuarial reports of the UK and German schemes As set out in Note 26 on page 128 the Group has significant which set out the calculations and assumptions underpinning the year defined benefit pension schemes.
These primarily represent the end pension scheme valuation.
We read these reports and were Yule Catto Group retirement benefits scheme in the UK and an satisfied that the scope of their work was such that we could use this unfunded scheme in Germany, which account for 78.3 million work to provide evidence for the purpose of our audit.
We assessed the and 68.5 million, respectively, of the net pension deficit of competency and objectivity of the external actuaries commissioned by 157.2million recorded on the Group balance sheet at the year the Group to perform the year end calculations by considering their end.
We focused on the pension liabilities in particular, as the technical expertise and independence from the Group.
We identified amounts reflected in the financial statements for defined benefits noconcerns over their competency or objectivity.
We used our own schemes are sensitive to relatively small changes in a few key specialist actuarial knowledge to evaluate all the key assumptions assumptions such as the inflation rate, mortality tables and most usedin each of the twoschemes by comparing these assumptions notably, the discount rate applied.
The Group uses third party toour expectations forsimilar schemes as at the year end.
We found actuaries to calculate the amounts to reflect in the financial managements assumptions to be within an acceptable range.
statements in respect of these schemes and it is accordingly important for us to assess the work they perform and their competency to undertake the work in order to conclude on theresults of their work.
90 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Group financial statements Accounting for the acquisition of Oxo Belgium We evaluated the process used by management to identify and value On 5 March 2017 the Group completed the acquisition of the assets and liabilities acquired.
"We assessed the assets and Perstorp Oxo Belgium AB ""Oxo Belgium"" for consideration liabilities acquired and the fair value adjustments applied."
The fair of66.1m, as described in note 31. valueadjustments were considered appropriate.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3 requires that all assets We considered the Directors process for identifying the intangible and liabilities acquired in the business combination are recorded assets acquired, considering the rationale for the acquisition and the at fair values on acquisition.
Judgement is required in identifying nature of the Oxo Belgium business.
Using our valuation specialists, and valuing all the assets and liabilities acquired, in particular we assessed the valuation methodology used by the Directors in intangible assets which are recognised on acquisition and valuing the identified assets.
We evaluated the forecasts and data valuingthe acquired property, plant and equipment.
used and the key assumptions made.
Intangible assets totalling 38.9m were identified relating to We were satisfied that the fair values of the intangible and tangible customer relationships.
The key judgements were in determining assets were supportable, and that the assumptions used in valuing an appropriate methodology to value these assets and appropriate theassets were within an acceptable range.
assumptions, including forecast revenue and profit, discount rate and rates of obsolescence to determine their fair values.
Tangible assets relating to land, buildings and plant and machinery have been valued at 8.9m.
The key judgements were in determining an appropriate methodology to value these assets, assessing current market values for similar assets, replacement costs and other valuation assumptions.
Provisions for Uncertain Tax Positions We used our tax specialists to assess the level of provisions held The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to a against various tax exposures and to consider the appropriateness of range of tax laws in a number of different tax jurisdictions.
In our assessment we had regard to the nature of the determining the amount to record at the year-end for tax liabilities individual exposures, including their origin, and any developments in there is an element of judgement as to what amounts will the year to assess the rationale for their continued validity at the ultimately be payable for assessed tax exposures.
As set out in current year end.
As part of this work we inspected correspondence Note 10 at 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded current with tax authorities and the Groups tax advisors.
We challenged the tax liabilities totalling 40.2 million.
A significant element of this judgements made by assessing individual provisions against our tax liability relates to uncertain tax positions.
We focused on this expectations of potential exposures, having regard to the facts of each area due to the size of the amounts involved and level of case.
No significant issues arose from this work to suggest that the judgement needed to determine the estimated provisions.
judgements made and amounts recorded were inappropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
As set out on page 2, the Group reports its results as two segments: Europe and North America and Asia and the Rest of the World.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, being holding companies, intermediate holding companies and operating companies, across 17 countries.
Three countries, being the UK, Germany and Malaysia, account for the majority for the Groups results.
Weaccordingly focused our work on three of the reporting units in these countries, which were subject to audits of their complete financial information.
In addition, to increase our coverage of the Groups revenues and underlying profit before tax we performed audit procedures at an additional 10 reporting units located in the UK, Italy, Belgium, Germany, Malaysia, USA, Finland and the Czech Republic.
These components accounted for 88% of the Groups revenue, 89% of the Groups operating profit and 87% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The key reporting units in the UK, Germany and Malaysia were visited by senior members of the Group team during the audit.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 91 Group financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Synthomer plc Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 6.5 million 2016: 6.1 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that underlying profit before tax, We believe that total assets is the primary being profit before tax adjusted for special measure used by the shareholders in items, is the principal metric against which assessing the performance of the company, the Groups financial performance is and is a generally accepted benchmark.
This measured in the Chairmans and CEOs has been capped at a level below that of the statements within the financial statements.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 450,000 and 5,000,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory materiality that was less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 325,000 Group audit 2016: 300,000 and 325,000 Company audit 2016: 300,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the to continue as a going concern.
financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
92 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Group financial statements Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to reportthat fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 67 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 88, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 68 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 93 Group financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Synthomer plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 12 July 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 6 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2017.
Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2018 94 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017
