Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone Brothers risks of material misstatement Plc for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statement of changes in equity, consolidated balance sheet, statements and include the most significant assessed risks of consolidated statement of cash flows, company statement of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by changes in equity, company balance sheet and company us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall statement of cash flows, and the related notes, including the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing accounting policies in note 1 and 39. the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving In our opinion: at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to address those matters and, as required for public interest of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in then ended: the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion the group financial statements have been properly prepared thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we in accordance with International Financial Reporting do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : Recognition and impairment of client relationship the parent company financial statements have been properly intangibles.
Amount capitalised during the year prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as 2,743,000 2016: 7,926,000, amount expensed as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies capitalisation criteria not met 5,094,000 2016: Act 2006: and 4,005,000 and carrying balance of client relationship the financial statements have been prepared in accordance intangible 88,511,000 2016: 97,201,000 with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the Risk vs 2016: IAS Regulation.
Refer to page 73 audit committee report, page 124 accounting policy and pages 126 and 140 financial disclosures.
Basis for opinion The risk accounting application in relation to recognition of client We conducted our audit in accordance with International relationship intangibles Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described in the next paragraph.
We believe The group has capitalised significant amounts as client that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and relationship intangibles, including both those purchased appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent individually initially recognised at cost and those acquired as part with our report to the audit committee.
of a business combination initially recognised at fair value.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 June 2009.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the nine financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Consolidated financial statements The key judgement areas our audit concentrated on were: Tests of details: on a sample basis we tested that such costs related to relationships already held by the investment The group makes contractual payments to its investment manager by obtaining relevant documentation evidencing managers for introducing new client relationships.
recruited managers, the group capitalises payments that are Accounting application in relation to impairment of client relationship deemed to represent the transfer of existing client relationships intangibles already held by the investment manager.
The group has Independent re-performance: for the element of the client determined the appropriate accounting policy is to capitalise relationship intangibles previously capitalised under IFRS 3 payments made to investment managers in respect of Business Combinations we have critically assessed the groups previously held client relationships transferred to the group own review of the client relationship intangibles against during the 12 month period after the conclusion of any nonimpairment triggers.
compete arrangements between an investment manager and their previous employer.
The capitalisation period is extended Tests of details: in considering the adequacy of the impairment beyond 12 months in exceptional circumstances, where assessment performed by the group to support the carrying management consider that the investment manager is value of client relationship intangibles previously capitalised, introducing previously held client relationships beyond that we assessed the population for closed client accounts or nonperiod: during the year payments were capitalised outside the income generating clients to assess whether they were 12 month earn-out period.
There is a risk that payments are appropriately derecognised.
inappropriately capitalised outside of the 12 month period or Assessing transparency: we have also considered the adequacy of that they do not relate to client relationships previously held by the groups disclosure in respect of intangible assets.
Our results we found the recognition and carrying value of client The risk accounting application in relation to impairment of client relationship intangibles to be acceptable.
relationship intangibles For client relationship intangibles, the group assesses whether Valuation of defined benefit pension deficit there is an indication of impairment considering a range of 15,600,000 2016: 39,455,000 impairment triggers.
Where such an indication exists, the group considers whether the ongoing benefits offered by the Refer to page 73 audit committee report, page 125 accounting capitalised client relationship intangibles are greater than their policy and pages 126, 143 to 148 financial disclosures.
carrying value and, if not, an impairment provision is recorded.
The risk subjective valuation There is a risk that a client relationship intangible was impaired The group and parent company has recognised a pension deficit but the group did not record an impairment provision because of 15.6 million as at 31 December 2017. the impairment trigger remained undetected.
The valuation of the defined benefit pension deficit depends Our response on a number of judgemental assumptions and estimates, In this area our procedures included: including: the discount rate used to calculate the current value Accounting application in relation to recognition of client relationship of the future payments the group expects to pay pensioners, intangibles the rate of inflation that must be incorporated in the estimate of Methodology implementation: we considered whether the the future pension payments, the life expectancy of pension payments capitalised fell within the relevant 12 month period scheme members and the number of members who will by comparing the dates of client transfer and employment transfer out of the schemes.
The valuation is an important contract of the investment manager.
judgement as this balance is volatile and impacts the parent companys distributable reserves.
Tests of details: in respect of those instances where payments were capitalised beyond the 12 month period, for each Uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect of significant addition we confirmed whether these relationships long term trends and market conditions to determine the value were held by the investment manager in a previous based on the groups expectations of the future.
As a result, the employment, challenged the group on the nature of the actual surplus or deficit realised by the group may be relationship and obtained documentary evidence.
significantly different to that recognised on the balance sheet since small changes to the assumptions used in the calculation Independent re-performance: we performed a recalculation of materially affect the valuation.
new client relationship intangibles recognised in the year and assessed whether the amounts capitalised were in line with the contractual agreements with the investment manager.
com 109 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 109 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc continued New Measurement of Onerous Lease Provision 2 Key audit matters: our assessment 11,478,000 2016: nil of risks of material misstatement Risk vs 2016: continued Refer to page 73 audit committee report, page 131 accounting The plan assets are not subject to significant risk of policy and pages 126 and 141 to 142 financial disclosures.
misstatement, but due to their materiality in the context of the groups financial statements, they are considered to be part of The risk subjective estimate this key audit matter.
The measurement of the onerous lease provision depends on a number of assumptions and estimates.
In particular, the value of Our response our procedures include: the provision is sensitive to the underlying key assumptions Our actuarial expertise: we used our own actuarial specialists around future cash flows and discount rates.
The key assumptions to challenge key assumptions and estimates used in the applied by the group are: calculation of the pension deficit.
The key assumptions and the discount rates applied: estimates we tested included the number of members who transfer out of the schemes, the discount rate, RPI inflation and the estimated period of time the property remains empty life expectancy that were applied to the valuation.
void period : Benchmarking assumptions: we performed a comparison of the period of time a rent-free agreement is offered rent-free key assumptions against externally derived data and our period : and benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
the level of sub-lease income and the adjustment made in Methodology choice: we considered the groups judgement in relation to the risk of uncertainty.
selecting its assumptions and whether there were any In determining the provision, the group obtained advice from indicators of management bias.
These are estimates made in Comparing valuations: we obtained a breakdown of assets held respect of current market trends and conditions, and the value of in both defined benefit pension schemes.
We used our own the provision is determined by the groups known future costs for valuation specialists to independently verify the value of a the premises and expectations of the potential rental income.
sample of the assets held within both schemes.
Our response our procedures included: Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the Our property valuation expertise: we used our own property groups disclosure in respect of the defined benefit pension specialists to challenge key assumptions and estimates used in deficit and the assumptions used which is set out in note 27 to the calculation of the onerous lease provision.
This included the financial statements.
comparing these assumptions against our specialists own Our results we found the valuation of defined benefit pension knowledge of property lettings in the industry, and assessing deficit to be acceptable.
the reasonableness of the groups assumptions against their benchmark ranges for similar properties in the area.
Test of details: we tested the accuracy and completeness of key data inputs by reviewing documentation in relation to signed lease agreements.
Our sector experience: we assessed the reasonability of the discount rate used for both certain and uncertain cash flows.
Methodology choice: we considered the groups judgement in selecting its assumptions and whether there were any indicators of management bias.
Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure in respect of the onerous lease provision.
Our results we found the measurement of the onerous lease provision to be acceptable.
110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Consolidated financial statements 3 Our application of materiality and an 4 We have nothing to report on going overview of the scope of our audit concern Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at We are required to report to you if: 3.6 million 2016: 2.8 million, determined with reference to a we have anything material to add or draw attention to in benchmark of group profit before tax, normalised to exclude the relation to the directors statement on page 121 of the financial loss on recognition of the onerous lease for the year of 16.1 million statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting as disclosed in note 25 and the credit of 2.0 million in relation to with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt the rent-free accrual as disclosed in note 9, a credit of 5.5 million over the group and companys use of that basis for a period of relating to the plan amendment gain for the defined benefit at least twelve months from the date of approval of the pension scheme as disclosed in note 27, as well as expense of financial statements: or 4.9 million relating to an aborted acquisition during the year as disclosed in note 8.
These are one-off expenses and not the same statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 105 considered to be part of the normalised profit before tax.
is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Materiality represents 5% 2016: 5% of the normalised group We have nothing to report in these respects.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a 5 We have nothing to report on the whole was set at 2.9 million 2016: 2.2 million.
This is lower than other information in the Annual the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference Report and Accounts to net assets, and represents 1.4% of the parent companys net assets 2016: 1.2%.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the annual report together with the financial statements.
Our We agreed to report to the audit committee any corrected or opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 180,000 information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion 2016: 140,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the group's eight 2016: eight reporting components, we Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, subjected eight 2016: eight to full scope audits for group consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, purposes.
The audit work for eight 2016: six was performed by the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent the group team to materiality levels set individually for each entity with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely which ranged from 0.03 million to 2.9 million 2016: 0.2 million on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the to 2.2 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of other information.
the group across the components.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded Strategic report and directors report from normalised group profit before tax.
Based solely on our work on the other information: The components scoped in for group reporting purposes we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic accounted for 100% of total group revenue, group profit before tax report and the directors report: and total group assets.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Normalised group pro t before tax 72.2m in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance 2016: 54.5m with the Companies Act 2006.
3.6m Group materiality 2016: 2.8m Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 3.0m the Companies Act 2006.
Range of materiality at eight components 0.03m to 2.0m 2016: 0.2m to 2.2m 0.18m Group misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016: 0.14m rathbones.
com 111 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 111 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc continued 5 We have nothing to report on the 6 We have nothing to report on the other information in the annual other matters on which we are report and accounts continued required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability in our opinion: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been attention to in relation to: received from branches not visited by us: or the directors confirmation within viability statement on the parent company financial statements and the part of the page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in principal risks facing the group, including those that would agreement with the accounting records and returns: or threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the risk management disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what We have nothing to report in these respects.
period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 7 Respective responsibilities they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they Directors responsibilities fall due over the period of their assessment, including any As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 106, related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial qualifications or assumptions.
statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing Corporate governance disclosures the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: We are required to report to you if: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either we have identified material inconsistencies between the intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
We are required to report to you if the corporate governance report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
112 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 112 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Consolidated financial statements Auditors responsibilities 8 The purpose of our audit work and to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether whom we owe our responsibilities the financial statements as a whole are free from material This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that to the companys members those matters we are required to state an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material responsibility to anyone other than the company and the if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis or for the opinions we have formed.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation Chartered Accountants not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
15 Canada Square A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs London website at www.
E14 5GL Irregularities ability to detect 21 February 2018 We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations that could have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct, financial crime including money laundering, sanctions list and market abuse regulations recognising the financial and regulated nature of the groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
com 113 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 113
