Fidessa group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Fidessa Group plc the Company for the year ended 31st December 2017 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the directors for the year ended 31st December 1997.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 21 financial years ended 31st December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition 353.9m: 2016: 331.9m Refer to Audit Committee Report, note 2d accounting policy and note 5b financial disclosures.
Fidessa group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The risk Subjective estimate: The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services including those required to deploy the groups software, market data charges and connectivity services.
The timing of when revenue should be recognised on different elements of a bundled package can require significant judgement, particularly when there is a significant deployment phase.
Consultancy services, particularly deployment activities, may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement is also required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element of revenue across the sites.
The allocation of total revenue to the individual elements of the contract and the need to assess the timing of recognition for each element presents a risk of accelerated or delayed recognition of revenue.
Our response Our procedures included: Control design and operation: For contracts where software, connectivity and market data revenue has been recognised during the year, our work focused on assessing whether the internal control process regarding approval of contractual terms had been followed: Test of details: We examined a sample of significant contracts to assess whether the group had obtained sufficient evidence, such as obtaining user acceptance, that it has fulfilled the relevant obligations under the deployment phase of the contract: Test of details: For bundled products, we considered, on a sample basis, whether the fair value attributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable: For fixed price deployment services which were not completed at the balance sheet date, we assessed the calculation of the stage of completion.
Costs incurred to date primarily include labour costs and our procedures included assessing whether those costs are appropriately allocated to the contracts by agreeing a sample to timesheet data: Personnel interviews: Where contingencies were included in the calculation of costs to complete, we inspected and critically assessed the rationale for the basis for their calculation with the directors and project managers who are responsible for delivering the projects: Historical comparisons Sector expertise: We challenged the forecast costs to complete based on our knowledge of the service deliverables and the historical accuracy of these forecasts.
We assessed the groups forecasting accuracy by assessing its track record of forecasts vs actual cashflows and did the same for the utilisation of contingencies: and Assessing transparency: We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as revenue during the period or deferred at the balance sheet date: Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
Fidessa group plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc continued Recoverability of goodwill and parents investment in subsidiaries Group: 44.9m: 2016: 44.9m: Parent: 65.8m: 2016: 65.8m Refer to Audit Committee Report, note 2j accounting policy and notes 5e, 14 and 4 financial disclosures.
The risk Forecast-based valuation: Goodwill and the parent companys investment in subsidiaries is significant and at risk of irrecoverability because historical valuations identified that there was significant sensitivity to changes in the ability of the buy-side business to achieve its medium-term revenue growth rates.
The estimated recoverable amount is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which form the basis for the assessment of their recoverability.
Our response Our procedures included: Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used in the revenue forecasts in the context of our business and sector understanding and with consideration of both the order book and committed revenue from existing contracts.
Historical accuracy: Considering the historical accuracy of previous estimates to actual amounts achieved to assess the groups ability to forecast by assessing the track record of forecasts vs actual cash flows achieved: Valuations expertise: With the assistance of our internal valuation specialists we challenged the inputs and methodology used to determine the discount rate used in the forecasts including through comparable company analysis: Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the key assumptions and considering the likelihood that these thresholds would be reached: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill in the group and the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
Capitalised development costs 53.0m: 2016: 48.1m Refer to Audit Committee Report, note 2j accounting policy and notes 5a and 14 financial disclosures.
The risk Accounting judgement: The group capitalises eligible employment costs of its software developers, which are incurred on the development of its software products.
In order to determine the amount of cost that should be capitalised, including the proportion of cost associated with its software developers on both new products and enhancements to the groups existing products, the group must assess whether the cost meets the capitalisation criteria set out in the accounting standards.
Fidessa group plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our procedures included: Control design and operation: Evaluating controls in place to separately identify the time on development activities which is categorised as meeting the capitalisation criteria set out by the accounting standards, including their operating effectiveness: Personnel interviews: We made enquiries of the groups development board and inspected the minutes of this boards meetings throughout the year to support the eligibility of the costs for capitalisation in accordance with the relevant accounting standards: Test of details: On a sample basis, we agreed capitalised amounts to supporting documentation including timesheet data: Our sector expertise: We considered whether any recently launched products or those previously under development had been discontinued or their deployment delayed and, if this had occurred, we evaluated whether any impairment of the capitalised costs was required: and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of capitalised development costs.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the amount of capitalised development costs to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over Income tax expense.
However, following the reduction of this balance, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax of 50.0m, of which it represents 4.0% 2016: 4.1%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 1.9m 2016: 1.2m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 1.8% 2016: 1.0% of total assets.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 4 2016: 4 reporting components, we subjected 3 2016: 3 to full scope audits for group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 91% of total revenue 2016: 91% : 89% of profit before taxation 2016: 87% : and 94% of total assets 2016: 94%.
The remaining 9% of total group revenue, 11% of group profit before tax and 6% of total group assets is represented by 1 reporting component.
For this residual component, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within this 2016: the 1 residual component was subject to a review of financial information including enquiry.
Fidessa group plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc continued The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.7m to 1.9m 2016: 0.5m to 1.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 1 of the 3 components 2016: 2 of the 4 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team visited the UK and US components to perform the audits and visited 1 2016: 0 component location in Hong Kong to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with this component auditor.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the directors statement of going concern and longer-term viability that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Fidessa group plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the directors statement of going concern and longer-term viability of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement of going concern and longer-term viability.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Fidessa group plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc continued Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the core areas such as financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being tax law and financial reporting including related company legislation, as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries of directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
John Bennett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 16th February 2018
