Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we We have audited the financial statements of Rightmove plc remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard which comprise the Consolidated statement of as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of services prohibited by that standard were provided.
financial position, Company statement of financial position, Overview Consolidated statement of cash flows, Company statement of cash flows, Consolidated statement of changes in Materiality: 7.5m 2016:7.0m Group financial shareholders equity, Company statement of changes in 4.2% 2016: 4.3% statements as a whole shareholders equity, and the related notes, including the of profit before tax accounting policies in note 1.
Coverage 100% 2016: 100% of In our opinion: Group profit before tax the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the Recurring risks Agency, New Homes and Overseas revenue year then ended: recognition the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Recoverability of parent Companys Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union investment in IFRSs as adopted by the EU : subsidiaries the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of material misstatement the Companies Act 2006: and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the financial statements have been prepared in accordance judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as financial statements and include the most significant regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not Regulation.
due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation Basis for opinion of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and with our key audit procedures to address those matters appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is and our findings from those procedures in order that the consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Companys members as a body may better understand the We were appointed as auditor by the directors to the Groups process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These previous holding company, prior to it becoming a public matters were addressed, and our findings are based on interest entity, for the financial period ended 31 December procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the 2000.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement as purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, auditor is for the 12 financial years ended 31 December 2017 and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are as a public-interest entity and 18 years in total.
incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 77 Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc only continued The risk: Our response: Revenue recognition Processing error: Our audit procedures included: The key revenue streams, Control operation: Testing the design, implementation and operating 243.3m being Agency, New Homes effectiveness of the Groups controls over the review of monthly revenue 2016: 220.0m and Overseas, consist of recognised compared to the Groups expectation and controls over the review Risk vs 2016: subscription fees and customer and monitoring of membership offers that impact revenue recognition: Unchanged spend on additional advertising Data comparison: Agreeing billings by individual invoice, for the entire Refer to page 40 products in respect of population, to cash receipts: Audit Committee properties listed on Rightmove Report, page 93 Tests of details: For a sample of the highest revenue generating platforms.
There is a variety of customers we inspected contracts signed in the year, to assess whether accounting policy packages and membership and page 98 financial revenue has been recognised in accordance with the specific contract offers available and customers terms and conditions: disclosures.
are able to tailor the Re-performance: For membership offers operated during the year, we combination of products they selected a sample of customers from each offer, inspected the underlying receive.
The resulting large contract and reperformed the revenue recognition calculations: volume of non-homogenous transactions creates a risk of Tests of details: We assessed the appropriateness of deferred revenue at processing error.
In addition the period end with reference to subscription fee billings in December, and revenue is the most material specific product deferrals where amounts are billed in advance but revenue figure in the financial recognition deferred until the services are provided: statements and is considered Test of details: Inspecting a sample of credit notes raised post year end to to be a main driver of results, determine whether they related to revenue recognised in the year: and as such had the greatest Tests of details: We obtained 100% of the journals posted in respect effect on our allocation of of revenue and, using computer assisted audit techniques, analysed resources in planning and these to identify and investigate any entries which appeared unusual completing the audit.
based upon the specific characteristics of the journal, considering in particular whether the debit side of the journal entry was as expected, based on our business understanding.
Our findings: We found no errors in the Groups calculation of the revenue recognised.
Recoverability of Low risk, high value: Our audit procedures included: parent Companys The carrying amount of the Comparing valuations: comparing the carrying amount of the investment investment in parent Companys to the market capitalisation of the Group, as Rightmove Group Limited subsidiaries investments in the subsidiary contains all of the Groups trading operations.
548.7m company Rightmove Group Our findings: 2016: 546.2m Limited represents 99% We found no indicators of impairment.
2016: 99% of the Companys Risk vs 2016: total assets.
Its recoverability is Unchanged not at a high risk of significant Refer to page 40 misstatement or subject to Audit Committee significant judgement.
Report, page 91 However, due to its materiality accounting policy in the context of the parent and page 106 Company financial statements, financial disclosures this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent Company audit.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Profit before tax Materiality 178.2m 7.5m 2016: 7.0m of the scope of our audit 2016: 161.5m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 7.5m set at 7.5m 2016: 7.0m, determined with reference to a Whole financialstatements benchmark of Group profit before tax of 178.2m, of which materiality 2016: 7.0m it represents 4.2% 2016: 4.3%.
6.0m Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as Materiality at 2 components a whole was set at 6.0m 2016: 5.6m, determined with 6.0m 2016: 5.6m - 25,000, reference to a benchmark of Company net assets, of which 3 components it represents 1.1% 2016: 1.1%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.37m 2016: 0.35m, in addition to other identified Profit before tax Group Materiality misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative 0.37m grounds.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2016: 0.35m Of the Groups three 2016: three reporting components, which includes the parent Company, we subjected two 2016: three to full scope audits for Group purposes.
Group profit before tax Group revenue The components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of total Group revenue, 100% of Group profit before tax and 99.8% of total Group assets.
The remaining 0.2% of total Group assets is represented by one reporting component, which individually is not 100% 100% significant to the Group.
100 100 The work on the two reporting components 2016: three 100 100 components was performed by the Group team, which includes the audit of the parent Company, with materiality for the components set at 6.0m 2016: 5.6m-25,000.
Group total assets 0.2 99% Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for Group audit 100 purposes 2016 99.8 Residual components Rightmove plc annual report 2017 79 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and We are required to report to you if: mitigated: and we have anything material to add or draw attention to in the directors explanation in the Viability statement of how relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what statements on the use of the going concern basis of period they have done so and why they considered that accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they date of approval of the financial statements: or fall due over the period of their assessment, including any the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary page 89 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability 5.
We have nothing to report on the other statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
information in the Annual Report Corporate governance disclosures The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial We are required to report to you if: statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does we have identified material inconsistencies between the not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not knowledge we acquired during our financial statements express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, audit and the directors statement that they consider that any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, information necessary for shareholders to assess the in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial Groups position and performance, business model and statements audit work, the information therein is materially strategy: or misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or the section of the annual report describing the work of the our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters identified material misstatements in the other information.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Strategic report and directors report a corporate governance statement has not been prepared Based solely on our work on the other information: by the Company.
we have not identified material misstatements in the We are required to report to you if the Corporate governance strategic report and the directors report: report does not properly disclose a departure from the in our opinion the information given in those reports for the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code financial year is consistent with the financial statements: specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
and We have nothing to report in these respects.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Based solely on our work on the other information described above: Directors remuneration report with respect to the Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report disclosures about internal control and risk management to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with systems in relation to financial reporting processes and the Companies Act 2006. about share capital structures: Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability - we have not identified material misstatements therein: and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial - the information therein is consistent with the financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw statements: and attention to in relation to: in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Statement has the directors confirmation within the Viability statement on been prepared in accordance with relevant rules of the page 24 that they have carried out a robust assessment of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the the Principal Risks facing the Group, including those that Financial Conduct Authority.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: 80 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Irregularities ability to detect which we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report financial statements from our sector experience, through to you if, in our opinion: discussion with the directors and other management as adequate accounting records have not been kept by the required by auditing standards.
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting the parent Company financial statements and the part of including related company legislation and taxation the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified related financial statements items.
by law are not made: or We communicated identified laws and regulations we have not received all the information and explanations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications we require for our audit.
of non-compliance throughout the audit.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe 7.
Respective responsibilities our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, Directors responsibilities as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by 49, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that financial statements including being satisfied that they give we might state to the Companys members those matters a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements the further matters we are required to state to them in that are free from material misstatement, whether due to accordance with the terms agreed with the Company, fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the other than the Company and the Companys members, going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease opinions we have formed.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted Karen Wightman Senior Statutory Auditor in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered Chartered Accountants material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably Altius House be expected to influence the economic decisions of users One North Fourth Street taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Milton Keynes MK9 1NE A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the 23 February 2018 FRCs website at www.
