Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN OUR OPINION: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of SIG plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Significant Accounting Policies: Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty: and the related Group notes 1 to 33 and Parent Company notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: the valuation of the supplier rebate receivables: the valuation of the goodwill and intangible assets of UK Distribution and Larivire: the classification of Other items in the Consolidated Income Statement: and management override of controls.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.15m which was determined on the basis of 5% of forecast adjusted pre-tax profit.
Adjusted pre-tax profit is defined as loss before tax before adding back goodwill and intangible impairment charges, profit and loss on agreed sale of closure of non-core businesses, net operating losses attributable to businesses identified as non-core and restructuring costs.
Scoping The Group audit and audit of the consolidation is performed at the Groups head office in Sheffield.
The accounting records of the trading businesses within the Group are spread across the countries in which the Group operates.
We perform audit work in the UK, France, Germany and Ireland which represent 81% of Group revenues and 82% of loss before tax.
Significant changes We presented our initial audit plan to the Audit Committee in August 2017.
This included a planned in our approach reduction in full review scope audits in Ireland, Poland, Benelux and Bulgaria with an increase in focused audit procedures due to our assessment of the reduced risk of material misstatement in these businesses.
Reflecting the increase in the Groups covenant headroom for leverage and interest cover we no longer consider going concern to be a key audit matter.
As a result of the control breakdowns and intentional misstatements noted on page 73, we updated our risk assessment.
In doing this we considered the causal factors and the risk of misstatement in each of the Groups locations, and also considered the findings of the Groups own investigations, led by the Investigation Committee.
This resulted in us refining our audit approach with an increased level of focus on management override of controls and on the valuation of rebate receivables.
We refined the scope of work in those locations that exhibited an enhanced risk as follows: Further procedures over the valuation of supplier rebates and cash cut-off: and Revisions to the significant risks, key audit matters and procedures in relation to both management override of controls and financial presentation of Other items.
168 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN We have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Strategic Report on We confirm that we have nothing material to page 41 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis report, add or draw attention to in respect of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to of these matters.
the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have nothing material to consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the report, add or draw attention to in respect knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and of these matters.
the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 42 to 45 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc VALUATION OF SUPPLIER REBATES RECEIVABLES Key audit matter The valuation of supplier rebate receivables is considered to have the potential for fraud, reflecting the description complexity of the arrangements and the ability of management to manipulate the reported result.
At 31 December 2017 the Group has rebate receivables of 114m 2016: 125m.
As described in Note 1 accounting policies to the Financial Statements, the Group has agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related allowances and other discounts including marketing support are received in connection with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
In accordance with IFRS, supplier rebate receivables should only be recognised as a deduction from trade payables, when the performance conditions associated with it have been met.
In some cases, supplier rebate calculations are complex and span non-coterminous trading periods.
Judgement is therefore required in determining estimates of future volumes and the related receivables.
As set out on page 112, there is a risk that key clauses in the rebate agreements are not interpreted correctly resulting in errors in the calculation of the rebate receivable.
Further, there is a risk that inappropriate assumptions are made over the status of contractual arrangements with the Groups suppliers, and estimates of future purchase volumes.
This could result in inappropriate valuation of the Groups supplier rebate receivable.
Following a whistleblowing event in the final quarter of 2017, the Groups Investigation Committee led a forensic review performed by Internal Audit together with independent support from KPMG.
This review was to determine the recoverability of supplier rebate amounts specifically recognised by SIG Distribution.
This review led to the identification of adjustments, and in determining the age of them, management established that they may have been reflective of circumstances that existed at 31 December 2016 and therefore merit consideration for a prior year restatement.
On 1 February 2018 the Group announced that there has been an error in its recording and accounting for supplier rebates of 4.5m with some of this being intentional.
"IAS 8, ""Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors"", defines a prior period error as an omission from, and misstatement in, the entitys Financial Statements for one or more prior periods resulting from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable information that was available when the Financial Statements were authorised for issue and could reasonably have expected to have been obtained and taken into account."
IAS 8 defines a material misstatement as one that could, individually, or collectively, influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the Financial Statements.
The review concluded that 4.5m of adjustments constituted prior period errors under IAS 8.
As a result of this review our audit in 2017 also considered the impact on the prior period financial statements of the issues identified during the year.
Further explanation is given on page 105 in the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies.
The consideration made by the Audit Committee is set out on page 75.
170 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six How the scope of our We updated our risk assessment and in doing so obtained an understanding of the scope and the results of audit responded to the work led by the Investigation Committee using Internal Audit and KPMG.
In performing our risk assessment we key audit matter considered the risk of contagion across the Group locations.
In responding to the risk we considered the relative size and profile of rebate receivables, together with the relative risk arising from non-coterminous arrangements and consequential level of estimation.
We used our specialist forensic knowledge to help assess the misstatement of rebate income announced by the Group and to identify the portion which related to previous accounting periods.
We further used them to assess the reliability of support provided by management.
We performed procedures in those locations that exhibited an enhanced risk on this basis, with our testing designed to ensure we appropriately addressed the risk of material misstatement.
Our audit approach and the results of our work on the valuation of the rebate receivables were discussed on a number of occasions with the Audit Committee, including consideration of bias in managements judgements.
ASSESSMENT OF CONTROLS We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls related to the valuation of supplier rebate receivables, together with the completeness of the population of rebate suppliers: ANALYSIS TO IDENTIFY UNUSUAL BALANCES FOR FURTHER TESTING We discussed rebate arrangements with the commercial managers to understand the complexities and judgements that may exist over valuation of supplier rebate balances: We reviewed the year on year movements in rebates recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and rebate receivables by supplier.
Where a significant or unusual variation was identified, we investigated to understand the variance in trends between income statement and balance sheet accounts: PROCEDURES TO CONFIRM EXISTENCE AND VALUATION OF REBATE RECEIVABLE We circularised suppliers to confirm a sample of amounts receivable, including all rebate receivables greater than 0.1m: Where supplier rebate responses were not returned, we had direct independent correspondence with suppliers to validate rebate contract existence, assumptions and calculations: We compared post year end cash receipts to identify any misstatement in the year end receivable: We reviewed post year end credit notes to validate subsequent recovery: We re-performed a sample of managements calculations of supplier rebate receivables, agreeing purchase volumes for the year through to purchasing records and correspondence from suppliers or to other available documentation: We agreed supplier rebate percentages applied through to a signed contract where available or to other supplier correspondence: We reviewed correspondence with the supplier and considered the historical accuracy of the rebate income recognised: Where management recognised income in respect of back claims we considered the appropriateness of the judgements with reference to signed agreements, correspondence with the supplier and historical recovery of these balances: We tested the integrity of managements supplier rebate calculations using our computer assisted analytical tools: CONSIDERATION OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES We challenged whether the recognition policies and estimates were appropriate, particularly when there were non-coterminous trading periods and renegotiated rebate agreements: and We challenged managements assessment of whether a prior year restatement was required under IAS 8, considering both the quantitative and qualitative factors.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Key observations We agreed with the Directors assessment see page 31 that the misstatements identified were qualitatively material and that the Financial Statements required restatement.
We consider the receivable balances recognised within both trade payables and receivables and the related disclosures given, to be appropriate on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017.
Significant control deficiencies were identified in the rebate process, including the review process followed by each business which requires formalisation and could be strengthened through documentation of the key judgements taken.
The report of the Audit Committee on page 61 provides details of the actions that management will take to strengthen the controls in this area.
THE VALUATION OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS OF SIG DISTRIBUTION AND LARIVIRE Key audit matter The goodwill and intangible assets excluding computer software of SIG Distribution and Larivire of description 177m represent 13% of total assets and 36% of non-current assets.
As set out in the Audit Committee report on page 75 there are significant judgements in relation to the financial forecasts of the business units, discount rates and perpetuity growth rates used to determine the value in use of the cash generating units.
These judgements are subjective and are described in the Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 112 and Note 12 to the Financial Statements.
The valuation of goodwill has been identified as a key audit matter in the light of the continued challenging trading environments in the UK and France that has adversely impacted gross margin and heightens this risk for these CGUs.
The intentional misstatement of rebate receivables in UK Distribution heightens this risk further.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls relating to the assessment of the carrying audit responded to the value of goodwill and intangible assets: key audit matter We assessed the appropriateness of managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, performing sensitivity analysis against the key assumptions which include cash flow forecasts, discount rates and perpetuity growth rates.
We have compared these to industry forecasts, the Groups historical performance, budgeting accuracy, benchmarking against comparator Groups and our understanding of the future prospects of the business: We considered whether there was evidence of bias in managements forecasts: We utilised specialists in assessing the appropriateness of the methodology applied by management in calculating the discount rate for each cash generating unit: We tested the integrity of managements model using our computer assisted analytical tools: and We considered whether the Groups disclosures including sensitivity analysis were in line with the requirements of IAS 36.
Key observations Managements forecasts reflect appropriate downside risks and, whilst we note further actions are required by the Group to achieve the forecasts over the medium term, we concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment models are within an acceptable range.
The Groups impairment review process shows limited headroom, where reasonably possible changes in performance could result in impairment as set out in Note 12.
We consider that the Groups description of the key factors in determining the carrying value of the CGUs and sensitivity analysis has been appropriately disclosed.
THE CLASSIFICATION OF OTHER ITEMS IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 172 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Key audit matter The Group has consistently used a three column approach for the classification of the Consolidated description Income Statement to identify separately certain income costs which are non-underlying in nature.
The inappropriate or inconsistent inclusion exclusion of income costs within Other items could distort the underlying profit disclosed.
Managements incentives are determined based on the underlying performance of the business which results in a potential risk of fraud and bias in managements judgement to present these items separately.
The Group has incurred and presented separately net restructuring costs of 21.1m.
As these have been recurring over a number of years we have focused on these to understand the nature of the restructuring and whether it is significant enough for separate presentation.
The Group sold a number of properties during 2017, generating a profit on disposal of 19.5m of which 13.7m has been recognised in underlying and 5.8m within Other items.
We have focused on whether the classification is appropriate and whether the benefit has been clearly disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups definition for separate presentation within Other items is set out in the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on pages 107 and 108.
The net losses associated with Other items is 117.3m and increases the Groups underlying profit after tax as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of key controls related to the classification of Other items: audit responded to the We assessed other quality of earnings matters to determine whether they should be included excluded key audit matter from Other items and challenged whether they met the Groups definition for separate presentation: Where income costs have been presented as Other items, we obtained evidence to assess whether this presentation is appropriate and whether the separate presentation by management is indicative of bias: We performed detailed substantive testing for a sample of the costs income by verifying these against supporting invoices, agreements and other records as appropriate: We tested the movement in non-underlying provisions including determining whether releases additional charges have been made through Other items and should instead be through the underlying results: and We assessed the nature of the costs charged to Other items and whether there are indicators that the costs should have been charged to underlying.
Key observations We consider the items recognised in Other items to meet the Groups definition for separate presentation and the related disclosures are appropriate.
The items drawn out by management have been consistently presented within Other items each year.
Amortisation has been included in Other items which is consistent with industry practice and analyst reports.
Consistent with historical treatment, management have not included property profits arising from the sale and leaseback of operating sites within Other items.
This has benefited the underlying profit by 13.7m.
Profits from non-operating sites of 5.8m have been included within Other items.
MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF CONTROLS Key audit matter As described on page 170 the misstatements of rebate income which has been identified as a separate description key audit matter above and cash are considered to be significant breakdowns in the Groups internal control environment.
We considered the impact of the override of controls relating to those matters and the risk of bias in managements judgements.
We focused our testing on this area and our testing was designed to ensure we appropriately addressed the risk of material misstatement.
The challenges faced by the Group this year have caused the Directors to examine closely those areas of the Financial Statements where higher levels of management judgement is required, for example accruals and provisions or where there is a risk that controls can be bypassed.
There is a risk that other judgements taken by management indicate earnings management in response to the misstatements identified within supplier rebates.
We considered this risk when auditing judgemental areas, and in our overall review of whether the Financial Statements presented a true and fair view.
Refer to the Strategic Report on pages 31 and 61 and the Audit Committee Report on page 73.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF CONTROLS How the scope of our We assess the overall control environment of the Group with a particular focus on the governance and audit responded to the oversight process of those charged with governance.
In response to the risk we made corroborative key audit matter enquiries of management to understand the use of cheque payments to suppliers and therefore to assess the risk of contagion across the Group.
This identified the UK and Ireland as the key locations where cheques were most commonly used and where our specific procedures relating to cash cut off were performed.
Our procedures considering bias were performed at all locations in scope for the Group audit, with enhanced procedures in SIG Distribution as described below.
We utilised specialists with forensic expertise to perform walkthroughs of managements process.
Our procedures included: PROCEDURES OVER CASH CUT-OFF Performing a forensic review of cheques paid to suppliers around the reporting dates assessing whether the cheques have been recognised in the correct accounting period: Reviewing bank and cheque stub records to identify where further payments could be recognised in the incorrect period: Making enquiries of the arrangements with suppliers and of the existence of further side agreements: Assessing the misstatement determined by management and consequential impact on the Groups disclosures: PROCEDURES CONSIDERING BIAS Understanding the bonus entry points for the business senior management and wider business targets and how the results reported compare to those and consider whether bias has impacted the achievement of the targets: and Testing manual journal entries including focus on those posted by key individuals to key account balances where the risk of manipulation is higher and incorporating an element of unpredictability in the timing of our work and the selection of our samples in our testing plan.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements related to the Financial Statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement.
These estimates included the areas of impairment and presentation of Other items in the Consolidated Income Statement as set out in the key audit matters above.
Further to this we performed the following procedures in respect of SIG Distribution where the risk of bias was higher: Considering reductions in accruals in excess of 0.1m, including changes in assumptions for indicators of bias.
Where assumptions have changed, we assessed the appropriateness of the change and whether there was sufficient evidence to support the change: Comparing the listing of prepayments to the prior year listing to identify changes to increase the prepayments in excess of 0.1m.
Understood the changes and performed detailed testing to validate the balances: Performing additional testing of direct sales to determine whether they have been recognised in the correct period: and Using computer aided audit techniques we have gained an understanding of the nature of journals posted by key individuals and profiled and tested journals where the level of risk is considered to be higher e. g. postings to rebate codes in the general ledger.
Key observations We were satisfied that managements judgements are considered reasonable.
As set out by management on page 77 a number of deficiencies in the Groups internal controls were identified during the period, most notably in respect of the valuation of the rebate receivable and the recognition of cash.
174 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 3.15m 2016: 3.10m.
Basis for determining 4.6% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
materiality Rationale for the We have used adjusted pre-tax profit as defined on page 168 as the benchmark for determining materiality as benchmark applied this is a key metric for users of the Financial Statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.16m 2016: 0.15m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Parent Company materiality applied was 3.0m 2016: 2.9m, which was determined on the basis of 0.4% of Parent Company net assets.
The other component materialities applied ranged from 40% to 60% of Group materiality 1.3m to 1.9m 2016: 50% to 61% or 1.5m to 1.9m, dependent on our assessment of risks specific to each location and based on the components revenue and underlying pre-tax profit contribution.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group Audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a Group level.
The Parent Company audit and audit of the consolidation is performed at the Groups head office in Sheffield.
We perform audit work in each of the eight principal countries of operation.
Full scope audits were performed for the principal business units in the United Kingdom, Germany and France covering 78% of the Groups total revenue 2016: 84% and 80% of pre-tax loss 2016: 79%.
A further 3% of the Groups total revenue 2016: 13% and 2% of pre-tax loss 2016: 19% were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our audit testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
This took into account previous audit findings, our consideration of the control environment in those locations and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
Our specified procedures were performed for the location where we considered that there was a greater risk of fraud and error.
The locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our full scope audits and the specified audit procedures were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
In the prior year we performed full scope audits in Ireland and Poland.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement in these businesses led us to revise our scope.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process, including testing on the acquisitions which are significant to the Groups result and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Our audit work has included the use of component Auditors, which form part of the Deloitte member firm network.
We planned and reviewed the component Auditors work, issuing referral instructions to them and evaluating the results of the work performed.
Senior members of the Group audit team visited each of the significant locations including Germany, France and the United Kingdom.
We worked closely with our component teams, increasing the frequency of communication and detail of our review responding to the risks identified above.
We plan to visit all principal components at least on an annual basis.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in information included in the annual report other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
176 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of DIRECTORS REMUNERATION these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS AUDITOR TENURE Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by management to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment was subsequently ratified at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2017.
CONSISTENCY OF THE AUDIT REPORT WITH THE ADDITIONAL REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
SIMON MANNING FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP STATUTORY AUDITOR Leeds, UK 8 March 2018 177 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS
