John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of John Laing Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group which comprise: the Group income statement: the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: the Group and Parent Company cash flow statements: and the related notes 1 to 27 of the Group financial statements and the related notes 1 to 13 of the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of investments Valuation of defined benefit pension schemes.
The above key audit matters are consistent with the prior year with the exception that in the prior year, as part of the valuation of investments we paid particular attention to the valuation of the Groups investments in New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste being the Groups investment in Manchester Waste VL Co and Manchester Waste TPS Co.
Following commercial acceptance being achieved on New Royal Adelaide Hospital in June 2017 and the Groups investment in Manchester Waste VL Co being acquired by the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority in September 2017, we no longer consider the valuation of these investments to be a key audit matter.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements in the current year was 21 million.
The materiality that we used for the Parent Company financial statements was 19 million.
This is 1.9% of shareholders equity for the Group and 1.6% of shareholders equity for the Parent Company.
Scoping Our audit scope primarily focused on the fair value of those PPP and renewable energy investments which are significant to the Group.
Significant changes There has been no significant change in our audit approach in the current year.
in our approach Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 76 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 c to the Group We confirm that we have nothing material financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to to report, add or draw attention to in respect adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their of these matters.
identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering We confirm that we have nothing material whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the to report, add or draw attention to in respect course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of these matters.
of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 37 42 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 36 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters include those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS Key audit matter The Group holds a range of investments which primarily include PPP and renewable energy assets.
description The total value of these assets at 31 December 2017 was 1,194 million 31 December 2016 1,176 million as disclosed in note 12 to the Group financial statements.
These investments are held across a range of different sectors comprising transport, environmental including renewable energy and social infrastructure, and a range of geographies including the UK, Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
The valuation of investments is a significant judgement underpinned by a number of key assumptions and estimates.
The key estimate is the discount rates adopted.
Given the level of judgement involved, we also consider whether there was a potential for fraud through the possible manipulation of these rates.
Other key sources of estimation uncertainty include forecast project cash-flows, in particular future power prices which impact the value of the Groups investments in renewable energy projects.
A full valuation of the investment portfolio is prepared every six months, at 30 June and 31 December, with a review at 31 March and 30 September, principally using a discounted cash flow methodology.
An independent opinion is obtained from a third party that the portfolio as a whole represents fair market value at the balance sheet date.
More information on the valuation and valuation methodology including the discount rates adopted, the relevant sensitivity of the valuation of investments to a change in those rates and the relevant sensitivity of the valuation to a change in future power prices can be found on page 55 of the Audit & Risk Committees report and note 3 to the Group financial statements.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of the controls in place to value the Groups audit responded to the investments.
key audit matter We obtained evidence to substantiate the discount rate s adopted including benchmarking managements discount rates against market data, including the Groups disposals in the current and previous period.
We also benchmarked the discount rates on key assets to each other to ensure that we understood why projects have different rates and why there had been a change in the rates since the prior year.
We performed this work in conjunction with our own valuation specialists.
We met with the Groups external valuer to understand the process undertaken by them in arriving at their opinion that the portfolio as a whole represents fair market value.
This included assessing how the discount rates adopted by the Group benchmarked against those of the external valuer.
We also assessed the competence and independence of the external valuer.
We reviewed the key changes in cash flows since the prior year within a sample of project models which included checking that the latest forward power price curves had been correctly incorporated into a sample of project models.
We checked that the disclosures in the financial statements were appropriate particularly in respect of the judgements taken and the sensitivities disclosed.
Key observations While there are both upside and downside risks on the value of individual assets we consider the judgements adopted in valuing the Groups investments as a whole including the discount rate s adopted to be appropriate.
We consider the disclosures around the valuation of investments to be appropriate.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 78 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED VALUATION OF DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES Key audit matter The Group has two defined benefit pension schemes The John Laing Pension Fund and The description John Laing Pension Plan which had a combined net deficit of 32 million at 31 December 2017 61 million at 31 December 2016.
The valuation of the deficit is subject to a number of assumptions including the adoption of the appropriate i discount rate ii inflation rate and iii mortality assumptions.
We considered whether there was potential for fraud through the possible manipulation of these assumptions.
There is also a judgement concerning the Groups ability to recover a surplus under the rules of the John Laing Pension Fund and consequently the consideration of minimum funding requirements under IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
See note 19 of the Group financial statements for further information and page 55 of the Audit & Risk Committees report and the Groups disclosures around critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 3.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of the controls in place when valuing the Groups audit responded to the defined benefit pension schemes including the setting of actuarial assumptions.
key audit matter In conjunction with our internal actuarial specialists, we compared the Groups key assumptions, including the discount rate, mortality assumptions and inflation rate against our expected benchmarks and those adopted by other companies in the market.
In assessing the impact of IFRIC 14, we examined the nature of the Groups funding commitments to the schemes and reviewed the scheme rules, the external legal advice obtained by management and the actuarial schedule of contributions.
We checked that the disclosure requirements of IAS 19R Employee Benefits had been fulfilled.
Key observations We consider the judgements adopted by the Group in valuing the pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate.
We concur that the Group has the ability to recover any surplus under the rules of the John Laing Pension Fund and consequently is not subject to a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC 14.
We also consider the disclosures around the valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes to be appropriate.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole both the Group and Parent Company financial statements to be as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality for the 21 million 2016 19 million with the 19 million 2016 17 million with the financial statements increase driven by an increase in increase driven by an increase in shareholders equity.
Basis for determining Below 2% of Group shareholders equity.
Below 2% of Parent Company materiality shareholders equity.
Rationale for the Shareholders equity was selected as net asset Shareholders equity was selected as net asset benchmark applied value is a key performance indicator for the value is a key performance indicator for the Group.
This is consistent with the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 500,000 2016 500,000 for the Group and for the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our audit scope primarily focused on the fair value of those PPP and renewable energy investments which are significant to the Group.
We made enquiries of the auditors of a sample of investments as to whether they were aware of any matters which may impact the fair value of those investments.
Our audit work on those subsidiaries which provide asset management services and which are consolidated in the Group financial statements was executed at a materiality lower than Group materiality.
All audit work on these subsidiaries was performed by the Group audit team.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team has initiated a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that it visits a sample of the Groups investments each year with a specic focus on visiting the Groups largest investments by value.
Over the past three years the Group audit team has visited seven of the Groups investments which covered 25% of the investment portfolio by value at 31 December 2017.
OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other We have nothing to report in respect information comprises the information included in the annual report, of these matters.
other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 80 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our We have nothing to report in respect opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our We have nothing to report in respect opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been of these matters.
made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure We were initially appointed as auditors by the Board of John Laing Group in 2008 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Following an audit tender led by the Audit & Risk Committee in 2016, on the recommendation of the Board, we were reappointed as auditors at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is 10 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Claire Faulkner FCA Senior statutory auditor FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 7 March 2018 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
