INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Vectura Group plc to the members of Vectura Group plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 25 May 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities We have audited the financial statements of Vectura under, and we remain independent of the Group in Group plc the Company or the Group for the year accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
Consolidated income statement, Consolidated No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were statement of other comprehensive income, provided.
Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Consolidated cash flow statement, Company balance sheet, Company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
Overview In our opinion: Materiality: 1.45m 1% of Revenue the financial statements give a true and fair view of group financial the state of the Groups and of the parent statements as a Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of whole the Groups loss for the year then ended: Coverage 86% of Revenue the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Risks of material misstatement Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Recoverability of inhaled in-market assets, smart the parent Company financial statements have been nebuliser technology and non-inhaled in-market assets properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Revenue recognition Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Recoverability of parent companys investment in Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial subsidiaries statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
110 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of inhaled inSubjective valuation Our procedures included: market assets, smart nebuliser Controls design: assessing the design and Recent acquisitions have led to the technology and non-inhaled inimplementation of key controls over the preparation recognition of intangible assets with a market assets of forecasts and the challenge of the assumptions significant value, where the development or within those forecasts by management: 335 million commercialisation of the underlying Our experience: challenging the Groups assessment pharmaceutical assets are at the early stages Refer to 81 Audit Committee of impairment and impairment indicators depending of their useful economic lives.
There is a risk Report, 123 accounting policy on the asset concerned using our understanding of that the carrying amount of the inhaled inand 136-137 financial the assets current and future performed gained form market assets, smart nebuliser technology disclosures.
performing our audit procedures: and non-inhaled in-market assets may become impaired if financial performance or Test of details: agreeing significant observable inputs other events, such as regulatory approvals, used in the discounted cash flow models to the related contracts and underlying data sets: are not in line with initial expectations.
Our sector experience: assessing whether key The Groups estimated future cash flows for assumptions used, in particular those relating to the each asset are used to support their sales growth, timing and likelihood of development recoverability.
The cash flow forecasts rely milestone, forecast sale pricing and cash flow risk on a number of critical assumptions and adjustment percentages, reflect our knowledge of the estimates including the likelihood of success business and industry, including known or probable of early and late stage development changes in the business environment: programs, the discount rates, the assets future market share and associated pricing.
Benchmarking assumptions: challenging, using our own valuation specialists, the key inputs used in the Groups calculation of the discount rates by comparing them to externally derived data, including available sources for comparable companies: Sensitivity analysis: We performed breakeven analysis on the key assumptions noted above: Assessing transparency: assessing whether the groups disclosures about the impairment test appropriately reflect the risks inherent in the valuation of intangible assets: Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of inhaled in-market assets, smart nebuliser technology and non-inhaled in-market assets to be acceptable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Revenue recognition The Groups total revenue includes the Our procedures included: following principal revenue streams: royalty Royalty income, signing and Controls design: assessing the design and income, signing and milestone payments, implementation of key controls over the milestone payments: product and and product and device sales.
device sales accuracy of royalty revenues and product sales notified by third parties.
This included assessing Reliance on third party data: the controls over accurately forecasting the Refer to 81 Audit Committee third party sales: Royalty income is earned on third party Report, 124 accounting policy and sales and is recognised based on Test of details: agreeing total royalty income to 128-129 financial disclosures.
information provided to the Group by its statements received from partners and to the partners.
The Group is reliant on the cash collected during the year to assess the completeness and accuracy of third party reasonableness of the income accrued at the royalty reports and has limited visibility over year end.
This included reconciliation of accrued the level of third party product sales made but not billed income at the year end to the post upon which royalties are earned.
There is year end royalty reports, cash where received an inherent material risk over the accuracy and credit notes: of the royalty revenue accrued at the year Assessing forecasts: assessing the end.
reasonableness of the income accrued at the year end by considering the consistency For product and device sales of flutiform, between forecast royalties and those confirmed management is reliant on the third-party by third party royalty statements for the fourth supplier notifying Vectura of the point at quarter of the year: which the transfer of the risks and rewards occurs which is when the goods are Test of details: agreeing a statistical sample of available for collection by the licensing December and January product and device sales partner.
Given the lack of direct control and invoices to supporting evidence, such as third limited visibility, particularly at the year party delivery confirmations, to assess the end, there is a material inherent risk over appropriateness of the period of revenue the sales recognition at the year end.
We have also considered the level of credit notes issued post year end.
Subjective estimate: Test of details: reviewing the relevant licence contracts supporting each potential material Recognition of signing and milestone milestone recognised or unrecognised and payments is inherently subjective and assessing the assumptions made by the Group management exercises judgement in against the underlying contractual terms, the determining whether the Group has fulfilled data received from market sources and the data all of its performance obligations and the received from the counter party.
This included relevant period over which to recognise the assessing the recognition or non-recognition of associated revenues.
Milestones are often the milestone by comparing the judgement individually material and the fulfilment of made to the underlying contractual terms: performance obligations is linked to the corroborating the facts and circumstances to completion of a clinical milestone, a underlying supporting documentation and regulatory approval or transfer of external third party data: intellectual property.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgement and estimates around revenue recognition.
Our results We found revenue recognition to be acceptable.
112 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recoverability of parent companys Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: investment in subsidiaries 710.8 Controls design: testing the controls over the million The carrying amount of the parent forecasts prepared for the subsidiary, including companys investment in subsidiaries is annual approval and challenge of those significant and at risk of not being Refer to 81 Audit Committee Report, forecasts by the directors: recoverable due to the carrying value of 153 accounting policy and 153 certain investment exceeding the net assets Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the financial disclosures.
value of the subsidiary and or the assumptions used in the cash flows included in subsidiaries being loss-making.
There is a the budgets based on our knowledge of the risk that the carrying amount of investments Group and the markets in which the subsidiary may become impaired if forecast financial operate: performance or other events, such as Historical comparisons: assessing the regulatory approvals, are not in line with reasonableness of the budgets by considering expectations.
the historical accuracy of the previous forecasts: The estimated recoverable amount of this Our sector experience: evaluating the current balance is subjective due to the inherent level of trading, including identifying any uncertainty in forecasting trading conditions indications of a downturn in activity, by and cash flows used in the budgets.
The examining the post year end management critical assumptions include the likelihood of accounts and considering our knowledge of the success of early and late stage development Group and the market: and programs, the discount rates, their future Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy market share and associated pricing.
of the parent companys disclosures in respect of the investment in subsidiary.
Our results We found the groups assessment of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc 3.
Our applicationteriality and an overview of the Revenue Group Materiality 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the Revenue Group Materiality scope of our audit 148.0m 1.45m scope of our audit 148.0m 1.45m The mriality for the Group financial statements as a The materiality for the Group financial statements as a 1.45m 1.45m w whole hole w was as s set et a at t 1rmined 1.45m, d e with term reference ined with to re a ference to W W h h o o le le fi fi n n an an cc ial ial a benchmark benchmarkof ofGroup Group revenue revenueof of148.0m 148.0m which which it it ss ta ta te te m m e e n n ts tsm m a a tt er er ia ia lilt it yy represents 1%.
We consider total revenue to be the most represents 1%.
We consider total revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable 0.9m 0.9m m me ea a ss u ur re e y y e e a ar r on on y y e e a ar r th th a a n n g g rou roup p ll os os ss b b e ef fore ore ta tax x.. Materiality used for components Materiality used for components M M a a te te ri ria a lliity ty ff or orth th e e p pa are re n nt t c c om ompa pan ny y ff iin n a an ncc iia al l ss ta ta te te m me en nt tss as a whole was set at 1.4m determined with reference as a whole was set at 1.4m determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets of which it to a benchmark of company total assets of which it re re p pr re e ss e e n nt tss 0 0.. 2 2 % %.. W W e e rre epo porte rted d tto o tth he e A Audi uditt C Co o mmi mmittte tee e a an ny y cc o orre rrecc tte ed d o or r 0.
073m 073m R R e e vv e e n n u u e e uncorrected misstatements exceeding 73k and any uncorrected misstatements exceeding 73k and any M M is is ss ta ta te te m m e e n n ts tsrr e e p p o o rr tt e e d dto to th th e e Group materiality Group materiality other identified misstatements that warranted reporting other identified misstatements that warranted reporting a a u u d d it it c c o o m m m m it it tt ee ee o o n n q q u u a a llit ita a tt iiv five e gr gr o o u unds nds.. 4 4 of of t th he e G G rou rou p p ss 7 7 re re p p ort orti in n g g c c om om p p on on e en ntt ss w we ere re s s u u b b jjec ectt to full scope audits for group purposes and a further 2 to full scope audits for group purposes and a further 2 components were subjected to specified risk-focused components were subjected to specified risk-focused Gr Gro ou up p l lo ossss b be e ffo orre e t ta ax x Gr Gro ou up prrev even enu ue e a au udi di tt pr pr o o cc e e dur dur e e ss.. T T he he l l a a tt tt e e rr w w e e rr e e no no tt i i ndi ndi v v ii dua dua ll ll y y ff iin na a nc nc iia allly ly s s iig gni nif fiic ca a nt nt eno eno ug ug h ht t o o r r e e qu qu ir ir e ea a f fu ull ll s s cco ope pe audit for group purposes, but did present specific audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
individual risks that needed to be addressed.
3 3 14 14 F F o o rr t th he e rr e e ma ma ii ni ni ng ng 1 1 c c o o mpo mpo ne ne nt nt, , w w e e pe pe rr fo fo rr me me d da a na na ll y y ss ii ss a a t ta a n n a a g ggr gre e g ga ate te d d g gr rou ou p p l le e v five e ll to tore re -- e exx a am miin ne e ou ou r r assessment that there were no significant risks of assessment that there were no significant risks of 86% 86% 97% 97% material misstatement within this component.
material misstatement within this component.
T T h h e e c c om om p po on ne en nt tss w w iit th h iin n th th e e s s cc op op e e of of ou ou r w r w ork ork 86 86 97 97 a a ccco cou u n n te te d d ff or or t th he e p p e e rc rc e en nta ta g ges es iillllu u ss tra tra te te d d op op p p os os iite te..
The group audit team instructed component auditors as The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the to the significant areas to be covered, including the re re lle e v va a n n t ri t riss k k ss d d e e ta ta iille e d d a a b b ov ove e a a n nd d th th e e i in n ff orm orm a a ti tion on to b to b e e re rep porte orted d b ba ac ck k.. T Th he e G G rou roup p te tea am m a a p ppr prov ove ed d c c om ompo pon ne en nt t Gr Gro ou up p t to otta all a asssse e ttss materiality levels of 0.9m for the component audit materiality levels of 0.9m for the component audit teams, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of teams, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of tth he e G G rrou oup p a a cc rros osss tth he e cc o o mpo mpo nent nent ss.. T T he he w w o ork rk o on n 2 2 o of f tth he e 6 6 c co om m p p on on e en ntt ss w wa ass p p e er rff orm orm e ed d b b y y c c om om p p on on e en ntt a a u u d d ii ttor orss 7 7 and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
was performed by the Group team.
T T h h e e G G rou rou p p te te a am m v viis siit te ed d 3 3 c c om omp po on ne en nt t l lo occ a a ti tion onss, , i in n th the e 92% 92% U U K K a a n n d d Sw Sw iitz tz e e rl rla a n n d d to a to as sss e e ss ss th th e e a a u u d d ii tt ri ri ss k k a a n n d d s s tra tra te te g g y y.. Video and telephone conference meetings were also Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
At these visits and held with these component auditors.
At these visits and m m e eet etiin n g gs s, th th e e ff iin ndi din ng gss re re p p orte orte d d to toth th e e G Gr rou oup p te tea am m w we ere re 92 92 d d iiss cc u u ss ss e e d d iin n m m o or re e d d e e tt a a iil, l, a a n n d d a an ny y ff u u rr tth he e rr w w o ork rk rr e e q q u u iirr e e d d by the Group team was then performed by the by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Key: Key: Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 SS p p ec ec if if ied ied r r is is kk -- fo fo cc u u ss e e d d au au d d it it p p rr o o cc e e d d u u rr e e ss 2 2 0 0 1 1 7 7 Residual components Residual components 114 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have anything material to add or draw attention to in attention to in relation to: relation to the directors statement on page 107 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of the directors confirmation within the viability statement accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast page 55 that they have carried out a robust assessment of significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that the principal risks facing the Group, including those that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of would threaten its business model, future performance, approval of the financial statements: or solvency and liquidity: the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page the principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and 107 is materially inconsistent with explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and our audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the viability statement of how We have nothing to report in these respects.
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether Annual Report they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they The directors are responsible for the other information fall due over the period of their assessment, including any presented in the Annual Report together with the financial related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not qualifications or assumptions.
cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit We are required to report to you if: work, the information therein is materially misstated or we have identified material inconsistencies between the inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified and the directors statement that they consider that the material misstatements in the other information.
annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is Strategic report and directors report fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Based solely on our work on the other information: position and performance, business model and strategy: or we have not identified material misstatements in the the section of the annual report describing the work of the strategic report and the directors report: Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion the information given in those reports for the communicated by us to the Audit Committee financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance in our opinion those reports have been prepared in Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the accordance with the Companies Act 2006. eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Directors remuneration report specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We have nothing to report in these respects.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we Irregularities ability to detect are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors if, in our opinion: and other management as required by auditing standards.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly been received from branches not visited by us: or affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual agreement with the accounting records and returns: or accounts items.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, employment we have not received all the information and explanations law and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the we require for our audit.
nature of the groups activities.
With the exception of any known We have nothing to report in these respects.
or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of 7.
Respective responsibilities the directors and other management.
We considered the effect Directors responsibilities of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 108, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair our team and remained alert to any indications of nonview: such internal control as they determine is necessary to compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless other areas directly identified by the component team.
they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations do so.
irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal Auditors responsibilities controls.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our the financial statements as a whole are free from material responsibilities misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Adrian Wilcox Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 20 March 2018 116 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
