INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC Basis for opinion REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on STATEMENTS Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit Opinion of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit In our opinion, Antofagasta plcs group financial statements and parent evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis company financial statements the financial statements : for our opinion.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit and Independence the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the in accordance with these requirements.
Companies Act 2006: and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, the parent company.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, we have We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: the group the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. and parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: the group income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the group statement of cash flows, and the group and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: $49 million 2016: $45 million, based on 5% of three-year average profit before tax adjusted for one-off items.
MATERIALITY Overall parent company materiality: $18 million 2016: $17 million, based on 1% of Total Assets.
We identified the four mine sites, Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
AUDIT SCOPE Taken together, the locations and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 96% of revenue and approximately 94% of absolute adjusted profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant locations and functions.
AREAS OF Impairment indicator assessments at Antucoya and Centinela, carrying value of the Twin Metals project assets, FOCUS and the valuation of inventory stockpiles at Centinela and Zaldvar.
128 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 128 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk that non-compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Rules, gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements.
In assessing compliance with laws and regulations, our tests included checking the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, assessment of certain component auditors work, enquiries with management and enquiries of legal counsel.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment indicator assessments at Antucoya and Centinela In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets the Directors are We considered the Directors impairment trigger analysis and agree that required to perform a review for impairment of long-lived assets at no impairment indicators existed.
Our consideration is described below, any time an indicator of impairment exists.
and incorporates consideration of sensitivity disclosures and the need for impairment reversals.
There is a heightened level of impairment risk at Antucoya from the perspective of its high cost base: and Centinela from the perspective if its We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by sensitivity to changes in the long term copper price, and that a significant which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of portion of its value is dependent upon an expansion project that has not the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure to yet been formally approved.
the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Life of Mine plans.
We assessed the reasonableness of the Directors future capital and operating Based on the Directors considerations of the results of their carrying value expenses in light of their historical accuracy and the current operational results review, they concluded that no impairment indicators existed in respect of and concluded the forecasts had been appropriately prepared, based on updated Antucoya and Centinela.
assessments of future operational performance and cost savings initiatives.
With In considering whether there were indicators of impairment, and to support respect to Centinela, the Directors confirmed to us that they expected to approve the sensitivity analysis, the Directors considered the recoverable amount the expansion project within the next 12 months.
As a value-in-use methodology does not permit future Utilising our valuation experts, we evaluated the appropriateness of key market expansion or optimisation plans to be included within the discounted cash related assumptions in the Directors valuation models, including the copper flow model, the Directors have used a FVLCD valuation methodology to prices, discount rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
We noted that the determine the recoverable amount, applying assumptions that a market recoverable amounts were particularly sensitive to changes in the long-term participant would use to determine fair value.
We formed an independent view of the copper price Refer to Note 4 Exceptional Items.
that a market participant might use in a fair value less cost to dispose scenario.
We found that the Directors long-term copper price assumption of $3.00 lb was within a reasonable range.
We independently calculated a weighted average cost of capital by making reference to market data, and considering the CGU specific risks.
The discount rate used by the Directors of 8% fell within a reasonable range.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts.
In light of the above, we reviewed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 4 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided, and concluded they were appropriate.
co. uk 129 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Twin Metals In the prior year a potential impairment indicator with respect to the Twin We considered the status of the licences and whether this was an indicator Metals project was noted due to the non-renewal of two of the mining of impairment.
In addition to a site visit to Ely, Minnesota, to enhance our leases.
However in December 2017 the US Department of the Interior understanding of the project and its economics, we have reviewed the DOI confirmed Twin Metals right to renew the leases.
This replaced developments in respect of the renewal of the projects mining leases, the DOIs previous legal opinion from March 2016, which had served as obtaining legal representations in respect of the December 2017 the basis for the December 2016 action by the Bureau of Land confirmation from the DOI.
Management and the US Forest Service to deny the renewal of the As a consequence of the above, we concluded there to be no impairment two leases.
The Directors concluded that this positive legal development, of the carrying value of capitalised assets relating to the project.
along with consideration of the current forecasts of the potential value to be generated by the project, supported the conclusion that no adjustment to the carrying value of the projects assets was necessary.
Valuation of inventory stockpiles at Centinela and Zaldvar Both Centinela and Zalidvar have a significant amount of working capital The group engaged an independent expert to review the physical properties tied up in inventory stockpiles.
There are a number of complexities involved of the groups inventory stockpiles as at the 31 December 2017.
In addition in the determination of the grade and recovery assumptions that form the to assessing the competency and objectivity of the expert, we have read the basis for the valuation of these inventory stockpiles.
experts report and discussed with the expert their valuation methodology for inventory, along with the key judgements they made.
On a periodic basis, the Directors monitor the specific accounting policies applied to these inventory balances, the level of headroom indicated by In addition to the above, we have performed a detailed review of the Directors net realisable value tests, the forecast future movements in the value of net realisable value tests.
These tests support the Directors view that there the balances and any other specific issues which may arise.
These reviews are no concerns with the carrying value of the groups inventory balances have not indicated any concerns with the carrying value of the groups as at 31 December 2017. inventory balances as at 31 December 2017.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The core mining business consists of four assets: Los Pelambres and Centinela: Antucoya: and Zaldvar, a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation operated by the group.
These mines produce copper cathodes, copper concentrates and significant volumes of by-products.
In addition to mining, the group has a transport division that provides rail and road cargo services in northern Chile predominantly to mining customers, including to the groups own operations.
All of the above operations are located in Chile.
In addition, the group has corporate head offices located in both Santiago, Chile Antofagasta Minerals and London, UK Antofagasta plc.
The group also has exploration projects in various countries.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the four mine sites and the corporate offices in Chile, by us, as the group engagement team and by component auditors from PwC Chile operating under our instruction.
Los Pelambres and Centinela were considered to be financially significant components of the group, due to their contribution towards group profit before tax, and so required audits of their complete financial information.
Antucoya and Zaldvar were also subject to an audit of their complete financial information, in response to the elevated risk of impairment to Antucoyas carrying value and the carrying value of inventory at Zaldvar.
We also requested that component auditors perform specified procedures over the corporate offices in Chile, and specific line items of other entities within the group to ensure that we had sufficient coverage from our audit work for each line of the groups financial statements.
For all other non-financially significant components, the group team performed analytical review procedures.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
UK resources were seconded to PwC Chile to be an integral part of the team.
In addition the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Chile three times, including one mine site, and attended key audit meetings with management and met with our component auditors.
The group team also reviewed the component auditor working papers, attended local audit clearance meetings, and reviewed other forms of communications dealing with significant accounting and auditing issues.
130 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 130 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality $49 million 2016: $45 million.
How we 5% of three-year average profit before tax adjusted for one off items.
determined it Rationale for We believe that profit before tax adjusted for one-off items is the primary As the parent company is a non-operating holding benchmark applied measure in assessing the performance of the group, and is a generally accepted company we will use total assets as our benchmark.
We used a three-year average due to the impact on profit As the parent company is PIE we will use a 1% rule before tax of the inherent volatility in copper commodity prices, and adjusted for of thumb.
one-off items to eliminate the volatility that they introduce.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $10 million and $30 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5 million group audit 2016: $1.5 million and $923,000 parent company audit 2016: $874,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect We have nothing material to add or to draw attention of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it to.
However, because not all future events or conditions appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the parent the groups and parent companys ability to continue as companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months a going concern.
from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material The directors confirmation on page 19 of the Annual Report that they misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also how they are being managed or mitigated.
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act The directors explanation on page 18 of the Annual Report as to how they 2006 have been included.
have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to UK unless otherwise stated.
any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
co. uk 131 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal STATEMENTS risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
OTHER CODE PROVISIONS We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This The statement given by the directors, on page 125, that they consider the description forms part of our auditors report.
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the USE OF THIS REPORT groups and parent companys position and performance, business model This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to The section of the Annual Report on pages 90 to 95 describing the any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the auditors.
our opinion: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION we have not received all the information and explanations we require In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has for our audit: or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL made: or STATEMENTS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors out on page 125, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for accounting records and returns.
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material APPOINTMENT misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 20 May 2015 to audit the financial statements for the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017. and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Jason Burkitt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2018 132 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 132 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017
