142 143 Statement of Independent Directors responsibilities Auditors report The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach the report of the Remuneration Committee and the financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Opinion Overview statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial In our opinion, Derwent London plcs Group financial statements Materiality statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and Company financial statements the financial statements : Overall Group materiality: Materiality Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 50.1 million 2016: 50.5 million, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the based on 1% of total assets.
have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups Specific Group materiality: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the 4.0 million 2016: 4.0 million Audit scope as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
year then ended: applied to property and other approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs income, administrative expenses, Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the provisions and working page 90, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance capital balances.
Key audit preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Overall Company materiality: matters The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 34.2 million 2016: 40.4 million accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial based on 2% of total assets.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit consistently: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and loss of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are Audit scope The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: We have audited the financial statements, included within the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed and performance of the business and the position of the Group, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial together with a description of the principal risks and Union have been followed, subject to any material departures the balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Group income statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic uncertainties that it faces.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the year ended 31 December 2017: the cash flow statements and the industry in which the Group operates.
The financial statements on pages 149 to 201 were approved by unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will for the year ended 31 December 2017: the statements of changes The Groups properties are spread across 27 statutory entities the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: continue in business.
in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017: and the notes with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of to the financial statements, which include a description of the these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
John Burns The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting significant accounting policies.
All parts of the Group, including the joint ventures, were Chief Executive records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys identified as requiring an audit of their complete financial transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics Damian Wisniewski time the financial position of the Company and the Group and or statutory requirement.
This work, all of which was carried Finance Director Basis for opinion enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the out by the Group audit team, together with additional 27 February 2018 We conducted our audit in accordance with International report of the Remuneration Committee comply with the procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also financial statements as a whole.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Key audit matters have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Valuation of investment properties Group.
Compliance with REIT guidelines Group.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Group and parent.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the The scope of our audit ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant these requirements.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 144 145 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Independent The valuers used by the Group are CBRE Limited for the central Valuation of investment properties London portfolio and Savills for the remaining investment property Group portfolio in Scotland.
We assessed the competence and capabilities Refer to page 108 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 165 Auditors report of the firms and verified their qualifications by discussing the scope to 168 Notes to the financial statements Note 16 and page of their work and reviewing the terms of their engagements for 199 Significant accounting policies.
Continued unusual terms or fee arrangements.
Based on this work, we are satisfied that the firms remain independent and competent and The Groups investment properties were valued at 4,670.7 million that the scope of their work was appropriate.
as at 31 December 2017 and a revaluation gain of 147.9 million was accounted for under revaluation surplus in the Group income We tested the data inputs underpinning the investment property statement.
In excess of 98% of the value of the Groups investment We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, property portfolio comprises offices and commercial space within framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of acquisitions and capital expenditure, by agreeing them to the central London.
The remainder of the portfolio represents a retail it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which management override of internal controls, including testing journals underlying property records held by the Group to assess the park, cottages and strategic land in Scotland.
were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors reliability, completeness and accuracy of the underlying data.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Valuations are carried out by third-party valuers in accordance The underlying property records were assessed for reliability by component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards and IAS 40. reviewing signed and approved lease contracts or sale purchase Key audit matters contracts and by reviewing approved third-party invoices.
For the of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors There are significant judgements and estimates to be made in properties currently under development, we traced the costs to than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud relation to the valuation of the Groups investment properties.
date included within development appraisals to quantity surveyor professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or Where available, the valuations take into account evidence of reports and confirmed that they were comparable to costs of the financial statements of the current period and include the intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused market transactions for properties and locations comparable incurred on similar completed projects.
In addition, we visited most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material to those of the Group.
a number of the key properties in central London that are under or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, development to confirm the status of developments.
We met with which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing The central London investment property portfolio mainly the external valuers independently of management and obtained allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of Rules, the UK tax legislation, the REIT rules and equivalent local features office accommodation and includes: the valuation reports to discuss and challenge the valuation the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we laws and regulations applicable to the subsidiary companies.
make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial Standing investments: These are existing properties that the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, We involved our internal valuation specialists to compare the are currently let.
They are valued using the income in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate review of correspondence with legal advisers, enquiries of valuations of each property to our independently formed market capitalisation method.
This is not a complete list of all risks management and review of the REIT calculations and supporting expectations and challenged any differences.
In doing this we Development projects: These are properties currently under identified by our audit.
documentation in so far as they related to the financial used evidence of comparable market transactions and focused development or identified for future development.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures in particular on properties where the growth in capital values was have a different risk and investment profile to the standing described above and the further removed non-compliance with higher or lower than our expectations based on market indices.
These are valued using the residual appraisal laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected method i. e. by estimating the fair value of the completed We identified the following assets for further testing: standing in the financial statements, the less likely we would become project using the income capitalisation method less investments where the valuation fell outside the expected range: aware of it.
estimated costs to completion and a risk premium.
ongoing and planned development projects: high value assets over 100m: and acquisitions.
The most significant judgments and estimates affecting the valuation included yields and estimated rental value ERV In relation to these assets, we found that yield rates and ERVs were growth as described in note 16 of the financial statements.
predominantly consistent with comparable information for central For development projects, other assumptions including costs London offices and assumptions appropriately reflected comparable to completion and risk premium assumptions are also factored market information.
Where assumptions did not fall within our into the valuation.
expected range, we assessed whether additional evidence presented in arriving at the final valuations was appropriate, and, whether The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled this was robustly challenged by the external independent valuers.
with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual Variances were predominantly due to property specific factors property valuations when aggregated could result in material such as new lettings at higher rents, movements in ERV or yield misstatement, is why we have given specific audit focus and to reflect market transactions in close proximity or the derisking attention to this area.
of development projects nearing completion.
We verified the movements to supporting documentation including evidence of comparable market transactions where appropriate.
We challenged the Directors and Audit Committee on the movements in the valuations and found that they were able to provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence.
Compliance with REIT guidelines We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to ensuring compliance with the REIT regime rules.
Group Refer to page 108 Report of the Audit Committee and page 155 We obtained managements calculations and supporting Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
documentation, checking their accuracy by verifying the inputs and calculation.
We involved our internal specialists to verify the The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status accuracy of the application of the rules.
provided they meet the rules within the regime.
The rules are complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on We found that the assessment prepared was free from material the financial statements.
The complexity of the rules creates a error and consistent with the UK REIT guidelines.
risk of inadvertently breaching and the Groups profit becoming subject to tax.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 146 147 For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we Strategic report and Directors report allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and components was calculated individually based on the Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is materiality of each statutory entity.
consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared Independent in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Auditors report to them misstatements identified during our audit above In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and 2.5 million Group audit 2016: 2.6 million and 1.7 million Company and their environment obtained in the course of the Company audit 2016: 2.0 million as well as misstatements audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Continued below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for Strategic report and Directors report.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Going concern and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: or liquidity of the Group We obtained and reviewed each loan contract to understand the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Reporting obligation Outcome terms and conditions.
Where debt covenants were identified, we Group and parent We are required to report if we We have nothing material re-performed managements calculations to verify compliance The Directors confirmation on page 113 of the Annual Report Refer to page 108 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 172 to have anything material to add or to add or to draw with the contracts.
The carrying value of all debt was agreed to 180 Notes to the financial statements Note 23 and pages 200 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal draw attention to in respect of the attention to.
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its Directors statement in the financial because not all future business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
statements about whether the Directors events or conditions For derivatives, we agreed the carrying value to valuations obtained The Group has secured and unsecured debt totalling 730.8 million The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks considered it appropriate to adopt the can be predicted, this directly from the third-party valuers, JC Rathbone Associates.
The debt includes unsecured convertible and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
going concern basis of accounting statement is not a We assessed the competence and capabilities of the external debt of 145.6 million 2016: 142.9 million with an option for the The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report in preparing the financial statements guarantee as to the valuers by considering their qualifications and market experience.
Group to convert the debt when certain criteria have been met.
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over and the Directors identification of any Groups and Companys We involved our internal specialists who performed independent what period they have done so and why they consider that material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue as a The Group uses interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
valuations to recalculate the value using independent market data.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether and the Companys ability to continue going concern.
The interest rate swaps were valued at 31 December 2017 by they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be as a going concern over a period of From our work on of the terms of the debt arrangements in place external valuers and the fair value was 7.9 million 2016: 17.3 at least 12 months from the date of able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall as at 31 December 2017, we consider the borrowings and derivatives million.
The valuation of the swaps is based on market movements approval of the financial statements.
due over the period of their assessment, including any related to be accounted for appropriately, valued correctly in the context which can fluctuate significantly in the year and could have a disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications of materiality, and disclosed appropriately.
material impact on the Group financial statements.
The valuation We are required to report if the We have nothing to or assumptions.
also involves judgement and therefore is considered an area of Directors statement relating to Going report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule We have nothing to report having performed a review of the 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with Directors statement that they have carried out a robust our knowledge obtained in the audit.
How we tailored the audit scope Materiality assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review Reporting on other information enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of The other information comprises all of the information in the statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the and the industry in which they operate.
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise on the financial statements as a whole.
and Company and their environment obtained in the course of explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Other Code Provisions responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent report when: Group financial statements Company financial statements with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the Overall materiality 50.1 million 2016: 50.5 million.
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify The statement given by the Directors, on page 142, that they an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we How we determined it 1% of total assets.
consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is and understandable, and provides the information necessary Specific materiality 4.0 million 2016: 4.0 million.
a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we How we determined it 5% of profit before tax excluding investment property and performance, business model and strategy is materially have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement valuation movements and profit on disposal of inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
investment properties and net finance costs capped obtained in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 108 to 109 Rationale for The key driver of the business and determinant of the The key driver of the business and determinant of the describing the work of the Audit Committee does not With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we benchmark applied Group's value is direct property investments.
Due to Company's value is investments in subsidiaries.
Due to appropriately address matters communicated by us to also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation the Audit Committee.
Companies Act 2006 have been included.
On this basis, we set an of investments in subsidiaries.
On this basis, we set an The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
overall Company materiality level based on total assets.
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a Based on the responsibilities described above and our work In addition, a number of key performance indicators relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, of the Group are driven by income statement items Rules, for review by the auditors.
CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct and we therefore also applied a lower specific materiality Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and for testing property and other income, administrative Directors remuneration matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless expenses, provisions and working capital balances.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to otherwise stated.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 CA06.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
