Independent Auditors Report To the members of Spire Healthcare Group plc Our opinion on the Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements In our opinion: Spire Healthcare Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: Group Parent Company Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Income statement for the year then ended Statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
100 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 52 to 55 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 99 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Parent Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 99 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 51 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group and the Parent Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Manipulation of revenue by changes to the pricing master file.
Misstatement due to management posting fraudulent manual journal entries to revenue.
Inappropriate capitalisation of costs to property, plant and equipment.
Property carrying values hospital assets.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four Group companies and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 14 Group companies.
The Group companies where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of revenue and 100% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for certain exceptional items.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
101 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report Continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Manipulation of revenue by changes To gain assurance over revenue recognised We did not identify material errors on to the pricing master file during the period, we tested the two-way pricing, nor evidence of management correlation between revenue and trade manipulation of revenue through receivables and three-way correlation this means.
2017: NHS revenue between revenue, trade receivables and Furthermore, we did not identify any cash for the year.
We also tested other indicators of pricing disputes with insurers revenue and receivables transactions 287.8m or the NHS.
that didnt conform to our expectation 2016: 293.4m of typical revenue postings.
Based on our audit procedures performed, we concluded that revenue for the year 2017: PMI revenue In order to specifically address this fraud risk, is appropriately recognised and free from we performed the following procedures: material misstatement.
we understood and evaluated the controls 426.0m that have been designed and implemented 2016: 429.3m to prevent or detect misstatements due to fraud associated with changes to the pricing master file.
We adopted a fully Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee substantive approach to addressing Report pages 70 to 73 : Accounting policies this fraud risk, and as such did not test pages 115 : and note 6 of the consolidated or rely on the controls identified: financial statements page 123. for PMI revenue, we have tested a representative sample and agreed prices Inappropriate revenue recognition by from SAP billings revenue to insurer way of management manipulation of the contracts, price lists, or other supporting pricing master file, resulting in inaccurate correspondence as applicable.
In instances patient invoicing in respect of PMI and where no contract was available, we have NHS revenue.
traced settlement of the invoice directly The high volume of patient transactions, to cash: for which pricing is individually agreed by we used a data analytics tool to address procedure with PMI providers and the NHS, the fraud risk for NHS revenue.
We used leads to a higher likelihood of material publicly available NHS national tariff base misstatement through intentional prices and Market Force factors to check changes to individual pricing on the the pricing accuracy of the NHS revenue pricing master file.
For the population outside of the National Tariff, we have agreed We considered that the pressure to achieve a sample of the billings to underlying forecast results or targets increases the signed agreements with NHS or other risk of financial reporting manipulation supporting correspondence as applicable, by management.
including cash: and we investigated whether there had been pricing disputes with insurers or the NHS during the year through discussion with senior finance and commercial management, legal counsel, review of Board and Executive Committee minutes and verifying this to correspondence, where available.
Additionally we searched journal descriptions for key words that might indicate the existence of pricing disputes: and we reviewed the ageing of accounts receivable to identify instances of aged debt which might indicate a pricing dispute with the customer.
102 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Misstatement due to management We performed a walkthrough of the We have not identified any posting fraudulent manual journal financial statement close process and misstatements due to management entries to revenue obtained an understanding of the journal posting fraudulent manual journal entry process, including the journal entries to revenue.
We have not found entry process for the consolidation, any instances of management override.
2017: PMI and adjusting journals which are posted directly to the financial statements.
We have used our understanding 426.0m of this process to develop our journal 2016: 429.3m testing approach.
Utilising our analytics-based revenue 2017: NHS programme, we have understood revenue trends through the use of analytics as follows: 287.8m analysis of double-entry postings 2016: 293.4m to the related accounts and how these accounts are aligned with our 2017: Self-pay understanding of the revenue process, activity and source: and identifying revenue trends which do not correlate with our expectation and 186.9m investigating and corroborating these 2016: 170.4m uncorrelated trends.
We performed mandatory journal testing by focusing on specific criteria designed Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee to identify journals through which we Report pages 70 to 73 : Accounting policies believe management can post fraudulent page 115 : and note 6 of the consolidated manual entries to revenue.
We consider that the pressure to achieve forecast results and analysts expectations increases the risk of financial reporting manipulation by management.
Given managements bonus structure and the pressure to achieve the agreed performance target, we consider there to be a risk of financial reporting manipulation by management.
Based on the key performance indicators that are analysed by both external and internal parties, we consider revenue to be susceptible to management override of control as this forms the foundation for the key performance indicators.
We understand that the high volume of system generated and low value revenue transactions, results in limited opportunity for management to fraudulently misstate revenue at a transactional level, other than through manipulation of changes to the pricing master file as considered on page 102.
For management to be able to fraudulently misstate, we consider there to be a greater incentive to override controls by posting manual journal entries to revenue.
103 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report Continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Inappropriate capitalisation of costs We understood and evaluated the controls Our audit procedures found no material to property, plant and equipment that have been designed and implemented instances of expenditure which had been to prevent or detect misstatements inappropriately capitalised to property, due to fraud or error associated with plant and equipment.
2017: Costs capitalised the inappropriate capitalisation of costs Based on our audit procedures performed, on hospitals.
We identified an operating we concluded that costs have been control deficiency and as a result adopted 119.9m appropriately capitalised to property, a fully substantive approach to address 2016: 160.4m plant, and equipment.
We selected a sample of costs capitalised during the year to address the nature Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee of the items capitalised, and to assess Report pages 70 to 73 : Accounting policies whether the items have been appropriately page 116 : and note 13 of the consolidated capitalised in accordance with IAS 16.
Our financial statements page 128. sample included both high and low value Given managements bonus structure items.
We obtained the invoice to verify and analysts expectations of the Groups the existence and valuation of each item, performance, for example earnings per and also obtained evidence that the share, we consider the risk of inappropriate expenditure was authorised based on the capitalisation to be a fraud risk.
We verified that the expenditure was capital in nature In the prior year, the Group had three large by reading the descriptions and details development projects Spire Manchester, on the invoices and supporting Nottingham and St Anthonys hospitals documentation.
We obtained evidence which were substantially completed in certified by third-party surveyors to this year.
The capital expenditure for FY17 support the value of work completed is across several existing hospitals and over by the main contractors for large project all property, plant and equipment categories.
Given the scale of the capital expenditure Where internal costs were capitalised, in the current year relating to both we verified that the costs were directly development projects and general capital attributable to the relevant project spend, we consider there is increased by obtaining calculation of staff cost opportunity for management to multiplied by percentage time allocated inappropriately capitalise costs to to specific projects, correspondence manipulate the Groups profits.
The high from project managers confirming the volume of costs being capitalised over all percentage time for staff to be allocated, property, plant and equipment categories and payslips to confirm staff costs.
means that it is harder for management We performed mandatory testing of to detect material inappropriate items.
Our journal testing approach considered appropriate criteria to identify a journal testing sample which addressed the risk of inappropriate capitalisation of costs to property, plant, and equipment.
104 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Property carrying values hospital assets We obtained a comparison of each Having sensitised managements valuehospitals EBITDA for 2017 to its budget.
in-use calculations for the hospitals we We selected certain freehold and long focused on, we conclude that the risk of 2017: Freehold property carrying value leasehold hospital properties to focus on, material misstatement is low.
The carrying specifically those which show notable value was supported, suggesting no need underperformance compared to budget to recognise impairment on these properties.
582.9m and prior year in percentage terms.
2016: 575.2m We therefore agree with managements We obtained managements value-in-use conclusion that the carrying value of the calculation for the selected hospitals.
We Groups properties is appropriate.
have understood the process and controls Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee behind the preparation of managements Report pages 70 to 73 : Accounting policies underlying three-year forecast, given page 116 : and notes 5 and 13 of the managements reliance on the plan for consolidated financial statements the value-in-use model.
We have reviewed pages 122 and 128 performance against budget to assess Freehold property is held at depreciated managements ability to accurately forecast.
cost and its carrying value is required to We tested the reasonableness of be assessed for indicators of impairment managements cash flow forecasts by by management on an annual basis.
comparing to prior year actuals and the prior year forecasts.
We discussed the For those properties with an indicator, forecasts with management to an impairment test is performed by understand local factors regarding calculating a value in use, by means of strategy and market forces which had a discounted cash flow model.
been taken into account in the forecasts.
As this process involves some degree of We corroborated the key assumptions estimation we consider that there is a risk to evidence.
We focused our procedures that properties are held in the financial on two hospitals which had minimal statements at an inappropriate headroom.
We engaged our valuation specialist to assist us in verifying the appropriateness of certain key inputs to the discounted cash flow model, such as the discount rate, certain growth rates and the terminal growth rate.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to manipulation of accrued patient revenue.
In the current year we have concluded that, due to the size of the accrual at any point in the reporting period, any manipulation is unlikely to be material and have removed this as an area of significant risk.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we identify the subsidiaries which represent the principal business units within the Group.
The Group continues to operate solely in the UK.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four 2016: four entities full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For a further 14 2016: 19 entities specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
105 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report Continued The entities for which we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups revenue and 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 92% 2016: 88% of the Groups revenue and 68% 2016: 69% of the Groups total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 8% 2016: 12% of the Groups revenue and 32% 2015: 31% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but has contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
It is not possible to present the split between full and specific scope components on a profit before tax basis in a meaningful way.
This is due to intraGroup profits earned in certain specific scope components which result in consolidated profit before tax amount to more than 100%.
For the remaining 17 non-dormant entities we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of the clerical accuracy of the consolidation to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements.
The audit of the entities within the Group is undertaken by one audit team which is led by the senior statutory auditor.
Changes from the prior year There have not been any significant changes to the scope of our audit from the prior year.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
3.4 million Tolerance Profit for potential before tax Page 110 23.1m undetected misstatements 2.5 million Exceptional items added back 47.7m Materiality 100% Performance Adjusted profit materiality before tax 70.8m 75% Materiality 5% of Uncorrected misstatements adjusted profit before tax 3.5m 5% 0.2 million reporting threshold Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.5 million 2016: 4.1 million, which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax 2016: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We have adjusted profit before tax for certain exceptional items amount to 47.7 million, in order to calculate materiality on a basis which reflects the underlying performance of the Group.
We believe this provides us with the most applicable measurement basis for the users of the financial statements and is in line with the adjusted performance measures the Group uses.
We have not adjusted for 1.5 million of exceptional items which are not significant.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be the same as materiality for the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.5 million 2015: 3.1 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment of the overall control environment and the history of no or very few audit adjustments.
106 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit work on subsidiaries for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative size and risk of the entity in relation to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement arising in that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to subsidiary entities was 0.5 million to 2.5 million 2016: 0.5 million to 2.8 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2016: 0.2 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 2 to 99, including, the Strategic Report set out on pages 2 to 55 and Governance report set out on pages 56 to 99, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 99 Statement of Directors responsibility the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on pages 70 to 73 the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee the explanation as to why the annual report does not include a section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: and Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 99 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
107 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report Continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: we obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are those related to the reporting framework IFRS adopted by the EU, the Companies Act of 2006 and the Corporate Governance Code, the relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK, and the Data Protection Act of 1998.
In addition, we conclude that there are certain laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, the Bribery Act of 2010 and certain laws specific to entities operating in the private healthcare provider industry: we understood how Spire Healthcare Group plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Group Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through the review of Board minutes, communications with the Audit and Risk Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies: and we assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management and those charged with governance to understand where they considered there was a susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets, forecasted results and bonus structures and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perception of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified risk.
108 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures included the review of Board minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations, a review of the reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee on compliance with regulations, enquiries with those responsible for legal and compliance, enquiries with the Group Company Secretary and with management.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed as auditors by the Board in November 2008 to audit the financial statements of the Company for the period ending 31 December 2008 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement, including the period prior to the Companies admission on the London Stock Exchange in 2014, is 10 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Debbie OHanlon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 1 March 2018 Notes applicable where this report is published electronically: 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Spire Healthcare Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
109 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
