Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Our opinion by the IASB In our opinion: As explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also Hikma Pharmaceuticals plcs Group financial statements and applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Company financial statements the financial statements give a true Board IASB.
and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly year then ended: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Basis for opinion in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Independence requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent Company responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit cash flow statement, and the consolidated and parent Company services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the to the Group or the Company.
notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Other than those disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
113 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: $14,000,000 2016: $13,275,000, based on 5% of profit before tax after adding back certain non-recurring items such as impairment charges, indemnity income relating to the Groups 2016 acquisition activity, severance and other expenses resulting from the planned restructuring of the Eatontown, New Jersey manufacturing facility and the impact of US tax reform.
Overall Company Materiality materiality: capped at $10,000,000 2016: $13,275,000, but calculated based on 1% of total assets.
For the purposes of the Group audit, we applied a lower materiality to Company balances and transactions, other than those which were eliminated on consolidation in the Group financial statements.
Our audit included full scope audits of seven components, procedures on specific financial statement line items of one component and procedures performed centrally over specific material balances at Audit Scope other locations around the world.
Taken together these account for 83% of consolidated revenue, 73% of consolidated profit before tax and 88% of consolidated total assets.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets: Revenue recognition chargebacks, returns and other revenue deductions: Areas of Focus Taxation: Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Company only.
The scope of our audit As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates Procedures designed and executed to address these risks included that involved making assumptions and considering future events that use of data enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and are inherently uncertain.
post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses applicable to the Group and Company and the industry in which they and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In operate, and considered the risk of acts by the Group and Company addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
work each year We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting Key audit matters a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, statements of the current period and include the most significant or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect the event of non-compliance particularly relating to, but not limited to, on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: regulations set out by the United States Food and Drug Administration and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and the FDA and other industry regulators, defence of products, pricing any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were and practices legislation, taxation and anti-bribery and corruption addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, enquiries of whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a management, review of related work performed by component audit separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks teams, review of relevant Internal Audit reports and discussions with identified by our audit.
in-house legal counsel supplemented by review of external legal counsel correspondence.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above as the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
114 Financial statements Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Group has goodwill of $282 million and intangible assets of $503 million With support from our valuations specialists, we obtained the Groups impairment 31 December 2016: $682 million and $1,037 million, respectively comprising analyses and tested the integrity of the calculations, reasonableness of key customer relationships, product related intangible assets, software and other assumptions, including product profit and cash flow growth or decline, terminal identified intangible assets.
This is contained within three cash generating values and discount rates.
We challenged management to substantiate its units CGUs.
assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to industry forecasts.
All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets must be We assessed the determination of the CGUs identified for the impairment calculation tested for impairment annually.
by considering the CGUs previously used as well as from our understanding of the business and how it is monitored.
The determination of carrying values, requires judgement on the part of management in identifying and then estimating the higher of the value in use In particular, given the key sensitivity around future cash flows we performed the and a fair value less cost to dispose for the relevant CGUs.
These amounts following procedures, with significant involvement from senior engagement team are based on managements view of future cash flow forecasts and external members: market conditions such as future pricing probability of technical and regulatory corroborated the information to board approved budgets and forecasts: success and the most appropriate discount rate.
understood managements process for forecasting cash flows, which is For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded $1,105 million underpinned by a model that encompasses a product by product analysis, as an exceptional impairment charge, principally in relation to a number and we challenged managements market and pricing assumptions by of events that occurred in the second half of 2017 including the continued comparing them to historical and third party market data.
We also utilised our delay in approval of its application for its generic version of Advair Diskus valuations specialists to identify any anomalies or trends that warranted further and sustained pricing pressures and erosion in the US generics market.
This investigation and corroboration: impairment charge was recorded in respect of goodwill, marketed products in respect of costs and resulting profit margins in managements model, we and products under development in the Groups US segment, as well as fixed challenged management on forecasted trends and assumed cost savings in the assets underpinning the manufacturing process in this segment.
context of the Groups plans for ongoing product development, maintenance of its manufacturing facilities via capital expenditure and other investment and plans for As the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent on organic growth: future cash flows, there is a risk that the assets will be further impaired if these undertook look back testing to understand how accurate management had cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations.
The impairment reviews been in its previous forecasting: performed by the Group contained a number of significant judgements and took into account that historically the Group has faced challenges in respect estimates including revenue growth, the success of new product launches, of reliably forecasting cash flows and challenged the rate used to discount the profit margins, cash conversion, terminal values and discount rate.
In particular cash flows to appropriately assess the supportability of the forecast, as well as the assumptions made in respect of its version of generic Advair Diskus are managements process for building up a forecast through detailed testing of particularly sensitive.
Changes in these assumptions could lead to further revenue, cost, margin and other inputs, including performing sensitivity analyses on impairment to the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
these assumptions to understand the resulting impact on the impairment charge: We focused on intangible assets in the Westward Columbus Cash Generating in respect of generic Advair Diskus, we obtained and reviewed Unit which were largely acquired from Boehringer Ingelheim in February 2016 correspondence from the FDA, engaged in discussions with management given the events detailed above.
to understand how its key assumptions around expected launch date and anticipated market share impacted forecast cash flows and examined external Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements and the audit data to corroborate managements views: committee review of areas of significant judgement pages 78 and 79. for impairment charged against the Groups In Process Research & Development IPRD in 2017 we corroborated products included in the valuation model to minutes from the Product Review Committee meetings, where decisions on pipeline and IPRD opportunities are made: considered analysts reports and other market information over expected future market shares and pricing: and recalculated the weighted average cost of capital and considered if the amount was within a reasonable range.
We also obtained managements sensitivity analyses which showed the impact of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
We considered whether these were the key sensitivities and compared the output to a reasonable range based on the evidence available.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 14 of the financial statements.
We considered the presentation of the impairment charge as an exceptional charge in 2017 in the context of the nature and magnitude of the charge itself, giving consideration to the Groups policy for exceptional items.
We reviewed the Annual Report to form a view on whether the disclosures contained therein are fair, balanced and understandable.
Based on our procedures we consider managements key assumptions to be within a reasonable range and the overall impairment charge, whilst judgemental, to also lie within an acceptable range.
For those intangible assets including goodwill where management determined that no impairment was required, wefound that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions.
115 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Revenue recognition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Management is required to make certain judgements in respect of revenue We considered the Groups processes for making judgements in this area and recognition and the level of chargebacks, returns and other revenue deductions performed the following procedures: that will be realised against the Groups revenue.
These estimates are material to We assessed applicable controls in place around this process, tested the the financial statements and involve judgement, hence the reason for inclusion nature of the pricing arrangements and the accuracy of calculations and as an area of focus.
agreed the rates in customer agreements with those used in managements The largest of these judgements relates to revenue recognition, chargebacks, calculations of the required reserves and deductions.
rebates and returns in the US for which the Group recorded revenue deductions We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable for the year ended 31 December 2017 of $1,933 million 2016: $1,822million.
schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Groups stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts and We focused on this area as rebates, discounts, allowances and returns historical levels of product returns.
arrangements and the deductions from gross revenue are complex and because We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, establishing an appropriate accrual requires significant estimation by the discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current directors.
This judgement is complex in a US healthcare environment in which payment trends.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are trends.
The directors estimates in previous years and the impact of competitive pricing pressures have determined an accrual of $388 million to be necessary at 31 December and greater discounting in the US market more generally.
independent expectation of the largest elements of the reserve at 31 Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant judgement December 2017 using third party data and compared this expectation to the pages 78 and 79, significant accounting policies Note 2, trade and other actual accrual recognised by the Group.
receivables Note 20 and other current liabilities Note 27.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material differences between our independent expectations and the accrual recorded.
Taxation Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions due to its geographic In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing specialists, spread, resulting in complex cross-border tax arrangements.
As a result, it we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of the is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax ongoing taxation impacts of the 2016 West-Ward Columbus acquisition, matters during the normal course of business including transaction related estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
In addition and following the of the Groups tax provisions, estimates involved in the measurement of Groups acquisition of West-Ward Columbus in 2016, the Group undertook legal uncertain tax provisions and judgements taken in the measurement of deferred entity rationalisation and restructuring in 2017 in support of maintaining the tax assets.
operational structure which had several complex tax consequences.
We assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 Income Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required in respect of Taxes in determining the tax base of the deferred tax assets, and assessed uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded provisions recoverability of assets against forecast taxable income.
Where this has of $63 million in respect of uncertain tax positions 2016: $64 million.
involved judgements, we challenged the judgements made by management and evaluated these in the context of the evidence available including examining There have also been a number of changes in tax law in the US and elsewhere correspondence with tax authorities.
that have resulted in a material impact on the Groups current and deferred tax balances at 31 December 2017.
The most significant of these has been as a In understanding and evaluating managements judgement relating to the result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act being substantively enacted before year-end.
level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions, we considered the status of In aggregate, the total adjusting item to account for the impact amounts to ongoing tax authority audits, the outcome of previous tax authority audits, $49million in the tax line.
The changes include a reduction in the corporate tax and developments in the tax environment.
We considered managements rate that should be applied to deferred taxation balances and changes to the disclosures in this regard and we agreed with managements view that a material foreign taxation credits regime.
Some of these changes are complex and there change to the Groups estimates of tax exposures is not expected within the are a number of areas of uncertainty relating both to the manner in which the law next 12 months.
will apply and how to account for these matters.
Therefore we have focused on For the tax effects as a result of the US tax reform we have discussed the key this area in our 2017 audit.
judgements made in assessing these implications with management and Refer to Notes 11 and 17 in the Group financial statements.
we agree that these are appropriate.
We have also verified the mathematical accuracy of the current and deferred tax calculated on the revised basis.
Based on this we believe that managements position is appropriate.
However, as there remains significant complexity in the new law and a number of areas of uncertainty relating both to the manner in which the law will apply and to the accounting in certain areas, we expect that there will be true-ups and updates to the estimates as further guidance is issued.
We consider that the level of uncertain tax provisioning and disclosure is acceptable in the context of the Groups financial statements.
116 Financial statements Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Company only Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Company holds investments in subsidiaries of $3,323 million at 31 December We evaluated managements assumption whether any indicators of impairment 2017 2016: $3,179 million.
existed by comparing the net assets of the subsidiaries at 31 December 2017 with the Companys investment carrying values.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment in the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
Investments are assessed for For those investments where the subsidiaries net assets were lower than the impairment annually or earlier if impairment indicators exist.
If such indicators carrying values, we considered their recoverable value by reference to the exist, the recoverable amounts of the investments in subsidiaries are estimated Groups market capitalisation at 31 December 2017 and the valuations implied in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such by other models and for goodwill impairment review purposes, all of which were impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
subject to audit procedures as part of our Group audit.
Management judgement is required in the area of impairment testing, Within the Company accounts we have performed procedures to ensure the particularly in determining whether any impairment triggers have arisen that cost of investment balance of $3,323million is supported.
These procedures necessitate carrying out an impairment review to assess whether the carrying have included auditing the assets and considering actual and expected value of an asset can be supported by the recoverable amount which is performance of the businesses underpinning each of the investments.
determined by reference to the Groups market capitalisation and in the context As a result of our work, we agreed with management that the carrying values of the net assets underpinning the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
of the investments held by the Company are supportable.
Refer to Note 47 in the parent company financial statements.
117 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope over specific balances performed on West-Ward Pharmaceuticals We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough International Limited WWPIL and procedures performed centrally work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a including the consolidation, taxation and certain component balances whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, not covered by local component teams.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The involvement of the Group audit team in the work of the component auditors included conference calls, meetings with local management, Procedures were performed prior to year-end to evaluate component review of working papers, attendance at audit clearance meetings, and procedures and controls, and visits were undertaken by senior team other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on members to component locations, to refine the audit approach and the significance of the component and the extent of accounting and ensure sufficient oversight of component auditors.
Senior members of the Group audit team also visited the US, Algeria and Jordan.
As at 31 December 2017, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc had in total 66entities subsidiaries and associates as part of the Group.
These Taken together our audit work accounted for 83% of consolidated entities may operate solely in one segment but more commonly revenue, 88% of the adjusted profit measure we use as a basis for operate across two.
Each territory component submits a Group determining materiality and 73% of consolidated profit before tax.
reporting package to Hikmas central accounting team including its income and financial position prepared under Group accounting Materiality policies which are in compliance with IFRSs.
We requested component The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
teams in the US West-Ward Pharmaceuticals and West-Ward We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together Columbus, Jordan Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Saudi Arabia Hikma Al with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our Jazeera Pharmaceuticals Industries, Algeria Hikma Pharma Algeria audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the and Portugal Hikma Farmaceutica to audit reporting packages of individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating certain entities in these territories and report the results of their full the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the scope audit work to us.
This work was supplemented by procedures financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $14,000,000 2016: $13,275,000 $10,000,000 2016: $13,275,000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax after adding back certain 1% of total assets.
This was capped at $10,000,000 non-recurring items such as impairment charges, 2016: $13,275,000, but calculated based on 1% of indemnity income relating to the Groups 2016 total assets.
For the purposes of the Group audit, we acquisition activity, severance and other expenses applied a lower materiality to Company balances and resulting from the planned restructuring of the transactions, other than those which were eliminated Eatontown, New Jersey manufacturing facility and on consolidation in the Group financial statements.
theimpact of US tax reform.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is core There is no income statement presented for the parent profit.
Management believes that it reflects the Company, as the entity takes the Companies Act 2006 underlying performance of the Group and is a more s408 exemption, and therefore users of the financial meaningful measure of the Groups performance.
statements are not relying on this figure to make Wetook this measure into account in determining economic decisions.
ourmateriality but did not add back certain non-core The Company holds the Groups investments and items unless we deemed them to be non-recurring performs treasury functions on behalf of the Group.
Our materiality would have been higher if Therefore, the entity is not in itself profit-oriented.
wehad adjusted for all non-core items.
Thestrength of the balance sheet is the key measure offinancial health that is important to shareholders since the primary concern for the parent Company isthe payment of dividends and servicing of debt.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $1 million and $10 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $500,000 Group and Company audits 2016: $500,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
118 Financial statements Going concern Strategic Report and Directors Report In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report Reporting obligation Outcome forthe year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable We are required to report if we We have nothing material to add legalrequirements.
CA06 have anything material to add or or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the because not all future events or In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and directors statement in the conditions can be predicted, this Companyand their environment obtained in the course of the audit, financial statements about statement is not a guarantee as to wedid not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report whether the directors considered the Groups and Companys ability and Directors Report.
CA06 it appropriate to adopt the going to continue as a going concern.
concern basis of accounting in Corporate Governance Statement preparing the financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the and the directors identification of audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement any material uncertainties to the on page 74 about internal controls and risk management systems Groups and the Companys ability inrelation to financial reporting processes and about share capital to continue as a going concern structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure over a period of at least twelve Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR months from the date of approval isconsistent with the financial statements and has been prepared of the financial statements.
in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
directors statement relating to In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company going concern in accordance with and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially identify any material misstatements in this information.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 74 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and Reporting on other information supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
ifacorporate governance statement has not been prepared by Ouropinion on the financial statements does not cover the other theCompany.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, considerwhether the other information is materially inconsistent withthe financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, orotherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement ofthe other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based onthese responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
119 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and Responsibilities for the financial statements oftheprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity andtheaudit oftheGroup Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement setout on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of The directors confirmation on page 61 of the Annual Report that they thefinancial statements in accordance with the applicable framework have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is performance, solvency or liquidity.
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that arefree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for The directors explanation on page 65 of the Annual Report as assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and period they have done so and why they consider that period to using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
inscope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material considering the directors process supporting their statements: if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant toinfluence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and these financial statements.
considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules financialstatements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Other Code Provisions auditorsreport.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to reportwhen: Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for The statement given by the directors, on page 111, that they the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do and understandable, and provides the information necessary for not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent orinto whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the ourpriorconsent in writing.
course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 78 to 81 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance withthe Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review bythe auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 120 Financial statements Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 11 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is2years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 March 2018 121 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
