Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc OPINION In our opinion: { Polypipe Group plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: { the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: { the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and { the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Polypipe Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Company statement of changes in equity for the year Group income statement for the year then ended then ended Company cash flow statement for the year then Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended ended Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements Group cash flow statement for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: { the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts set out on pages 30 to 34 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: { the Directors confirmation set out on page 74 in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: { the Directors statement set out on page 74 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: { whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or { the Directors explanation set out on page 74 in the Annual Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters { Revenue recognition and customer rebates.
Audit scope { We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all components of the Group.
{ The components where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit Before Tax, 100% of Revenue and 100% of Total Assets.
Materiality { Overall Group materiality of 3.1m 2016: 2.7m which represents 5% of Profit Before Tax excluding non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets.
81 81 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition and customer rebates Refer to the Report of the Audit We validated any material manual journals either We have concluded that revenue is Committee page 52, Summary of side of the year end to assess for any evidence appropriately recognised in the correct Significant Accounting Policies page of management bias, by checking to supporting accounting period and found no evidence 92 and Note 3.2 to the consolidated documentation.
We tested the accuracy of revenue cut off around We have concluded that the customer The timing of revenue recognition is the year end.
Our work comprised the agreement of rebates expense and liability are relevant to the reported performance of sales transactions from either side of the year end to appropriately recognised and that amounts the Group as a whole and also to the supporting documentation.
completeness of rebate expense and We also performed procedures where applicable related year end liabilities as discussed using EY bespoke data analytics tools to test the below.
There is opportunity to misstate appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the the recording of revenue between general ledger by correlating sales postings with cash periods in order to influence reported receipts throughout the year.
We tested the appropriateness of rebate provision Furthermore, as described in Note 3.2 calculations by agreeing a sample of amounts to the Group financial statements, the recognised to terms of agreements and other Groups pricing structure includes rebate supporting documents.
Some of these arrangements involve estimation We compared year end customer rebate provisions when determining the amount to be and rebate costs in the year to prior year amounts and recognised as an expense in the year expectations in order to identify unusual trends.
and a liability at the year end.
This is We compared a sample of rebate payments made in particularly the case where the Group is the year with amounts provided as at 31 December reliant on information from customers 2016 which gave us assurance over the accuracy of which may not be available at the time amounts previously provided.
We assessed the completeness of rebate amounts recognised by reference to the Groups customer base from which revenue was derived in the year.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in all locations, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group Tailoring the scope financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit statements, of the 12 reporting components of the Group, we scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this selected all 12 components covering entities within the UK, enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial France, Italy and the United Arab Emirates, which represent the statements.
We take into account factors such as size, risk principal business units within the Group.
profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be We performed an audit of the complete financial information of performed at each entity.
all 12 components selected full scope components.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS Therefore for the current year, the full scope components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% of the Groups Profit Before Tax 2016: 100%, 100% of the Groups Reported profit Before Tax of 55.6m Revenue 2016: 100% and 100% of the Groups Total Assets Starting basis 2016: 100%.
Add profit from discontinued operations before tax of 1.4m Changes from the prior year Add Non-underlying items, excluding amortisation There were no scoping changes from the prior year.
Adjustments of intangible assets, of 4.6m Involvement with component teams Totals 61.6m In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we Materiality of 3.1m 5% of materiality basis determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken Materiality at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 12 full scope components, audit procedures were performed We determined materiality for the parent company to be 2.3m on nine of these directly by the primary audit team which 2016: 2.5m, which is 1% 2016: 1% of equity.
was responsible for all UK locations.
For the three full scope Performance materiality components where the work was performed by component The application of materiality at the individual account auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component team in France.
This On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our visit involved discussing the audit approach with the component assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: management, attending the closing meeting and reviewing key 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.3m 2016: 2.0m.
audit working papers on risk areas.
The primary team interacted We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to regularly with the component teams where appropriate during the past history of few misstatements indicating a lower risk of various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers misstatement in the financial statements.
and were responsible for the scope and direction of the Audit work at component locations for the purpose of audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total opinion on the Group financial statements.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements range of performance materiality allocated to components was on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Reporting threshold The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually An amount below which identified misstatements are or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence considered as being clearly trivial.
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report extent of our audit procedures.
to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m 2016: 0.1m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.1m 2016: as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 2.7m, which is 5% 2016: 5% of the Groups Profit Before warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Tax excluding non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets.
We believe that Profit Before Tax excluding We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in assets provides us with the most relevant measure of Group light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our profitability.
83 83 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc OTHER INFORMATION OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY The other information comprises the information included in THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the Annual Report and Accounts set out on pages 1 to 78, In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly the audit: stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance { the information given in the Strategic Report and the conclusion thereon.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our financial statements and those reports have been prepared responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing in accordance with applicable legal requirements: so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge { the information about internal control and risk management obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially systems in relation to financial reporting processes and misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or about share capital structures, given in compliance with apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Guidance and whether there is a material misstatement in the financial Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that financial statements and has been prepared in accordance there is a material misstatement of the other information, we with applicable legal requirements: and are required to report that fact.
{ information about the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, We have nothing to report in this regard.
management and supervisory bodies and their committees In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to complies with rules 7.2.
our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO misstatements of the other information where we conclude that REPORT BY EXCEPTION those items meet the following conditions: In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the { Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 45 Group and the parent company and its environment obtained the statement given by the Directors that they consider in the course of the audit, we have not identified material the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is misstatements in: fair, balanced and understandable and provides the { the Strategic Report or the Directors Report: or information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups { the information about internal control and risk management performance, business model and strategy, is materially systems in relation to financial reporting processes and inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or about share capital structures, given in compliance with { Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 50 to 53 rules 7.2.
the section describing the work of the Audit Committee We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters does not appropriately address matters communicated by us in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to to the Audit Committee: or report to you if, in our opinion: { Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 43 the parts of the { adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate been received from branches not visited by us: or Governance Code containing provisions specified for review { the parent company financial statements and the part of by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision agreement with the accounting records and returns: or of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
{ certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or { we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or { a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS { We understood how Polypipe Group plc is complying RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS with the relevant frameworks by making enquiries As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities of management and those responsible for legal and Statements set out on pages 77 and 126, the Directors are compliance.
We corroborated our enquiries through our responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and review of Board minutes and papers provided to the Audit for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for Committee.
such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free { We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are { Based on this understanding we designed our audit responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, regulations.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we matters related to going concern and using the going performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
financial statements were free from fraud and error.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements is located on the FRCs website at https: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about www.
This description forms whether the financial statements as a whole are free from part of our auditors report.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not TO ADDRESS a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs { We were appointed by the Company in 2012 to audit UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
the financial statements for the year ended 31 December Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of and reappointments is six years, covering the years ended users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
{ The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING company and we remain independent of the Group and the IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD parent company in conducting the audit.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify { The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial the Audit Committee.
statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and Christabel Cowling management.
Senior Statutory Auditor Our approach was as follows: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor { We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Leeds frameworks that are applicable to the Group and 20 March 2018 determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial Notes: 1. statements are those that relate to the reporting framework The maintenance and integrity of the Polypipe Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial regulations in the UK.
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
