Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SIRIUS MINERALS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Sirius Minerals Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statements and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.0 million 2016: 4.0 million, based on 0.5% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Company materiality: 3.6 million 2016: 3.9 million, based on 0.5% of total assets.
We, as the Group engagement team, audited Sirius Minerals Plc, York Potash Limited and Sirius Audit scope Minerals Finance Limited.
Each is considered to be a financially significant component of the Group due to the quantum of their asset base.
Taken together these three entities represent 97% ofthe Groups total assets and 100% of its loss before tax.
Key audit Valuation of complex financing arrangements Group and Parent.
matters 104 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, financial conduct and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with tax authorities, review of correspondence with legal advisors and enquiries of management.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Thisis not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of complex financing arrangements We obtained managements valuation model for each of The Groups stage 1 financing activities during the 2016 the financing instruments listed.
To assess application we: financial year has resulted in a number of complex financing read the underlying contract and assessed whether the arrangements being entered into with third parties, contract terms supported the accounting treatment specifically: adopted: US$250 million royalty agreement with Hancock British assessed whether the valuation model adopted was Holdings Limited consistent with the model applied during the period US$50 million equity arrangement with Hancock British ended December 2016: Holdings Limited evaluated discount rate assumptions made by US$400 million of Group issued Dollar denominated management, engaging our PwC valuation experts to convertible bonds.
assist with this evaluation: Accounting for each of these financing instruments under confirmed convertible bond conversion rates to source IFRS is complex and, where valuation models are required, documentation: the eventual accounting treatment is sensitive to key read the disclosure made in the financial statements.
We found, based on the results of our testing, that the valuation, recognition and disclosures made in the financial The accounting framework for each of these financing statements in respect of these financial instruments were instruments and the respective valuation models employed consistent with the supporting evidence we obtained.
by management remain consistent with those adopted in 2016.
However, the valuations recognised in the 2017 financial statements remain sensitive to current year inputs in the valuations models.
Given the material nature of these instruments and the judgemental nature of these inputs we consider this to be a key audit matter.
Group and Parent 105 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SIRIUS MINERALS PLC CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group, headed by Sirius Minerals Plc, comprises13 wholly owned statutory entities, nine of which are registered and domiciled in England and Wales.
The remaining entities are registered and domiciled in each of Jersey, Canada, Singapore and the USA.
The Groups activities are fully centred on its UK operations, in particular the development of the Woodsmith Mine, an asset held by York Potash Limited.
The Group is financed via equity and external debt instruments held principally by Sirius Minerals Plc and Sirius Minerals Finance Limited.
Each of these three entitiesis considered to bea financially significantcomponent due to the quantum of their asset base.
Taken together these three entities represent 97%of the Groupstotal assets and 100% of its loss before tax.
The Group audit team has performed statutory audits on each of the financially significant components.
In addition the Group audit team has performedstatutory audit on York Potash Processing & Ports Limited, York Potash Holdings Limited, SACH 1 Limited, SACH 2 Limitedand Sirius Minerals Holdings Limited.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall Group materiality 4.0 million 2016: 4.0 million.
How we determined it 0.5% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group is in a pre-trading phase The Company holds investments in andis focused on developing the wholly owned subsidiary entities Woodsmith Mine asset.
Accordingly focused on developing the Woodsmith total assets is the primary measure Mine asset.
Accordingly total assets is usedby shareholders in assessing the primary measure used by theperformance of the Group, and shareholders in assessing the isagenerally accepted auditing performance of the Company, benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.4 million and 3.6 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million Group audit 2016: 0.1 million and 0.1 million Company audit 2016: 0.1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
106 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements draw attention to.
However, because about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going not all future events or conditions can concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the be predicted, this statement is not a Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least Companys ability to continue as a 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
107 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SIRIUS MINERALS PLC CONTINUED Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 48 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 53 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 102, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 66 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
108 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from materialmisstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of userstaken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 10 October 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is six years, covering the years ended 31 March 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Randal Casson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 5 March 2018 109 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
