Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: John Wood Group PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income expense, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Context John Wood Group PLC Wood is a global leader in the delivery of project, engineering and technical services to energy and industrial markets.
They provide performance-driven solutions throughout the asset life-cycle, from concept to decommissioning across a broad range of industrial markets including the upstream, midstream and downstream oil & gas, chemicals, environment and infrastructure, power & process, clean energy, mining and general industrial sectors.
Its activities and results continue to be impacted by challenging conditions in its core oil & gas markets.
On 6 October 2017, the group completed the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler plc AFW.
Following the acquisition, the group revised its operating structure and now operates through five BUs: Asset Solutions Americas, Asset Solutions Europe Africa Asia and Australia EAAA, Specialist Technical Solutions STS, Environment and Infrastructure Solutions E&IS and Investment Services with additional centralised group functions.
Our audit was planned to take into account the impact of market conditions and this significant acquisition on the results and activities of the group.
68 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview Overall group materiality: $30.0 million 2016: $14.6 million, based on 0.5% of total revenues 2016: 5% of average profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items.
Overall company materiality: $13.5 million 2016: $1.7 million, based on an allocation of group materiality.
On 6 October 2017, the group completed the acquisition of Amec Foster Materiality Wheeler AFW.
After due and careful consideration it was considered effective and efficient to engage the incumbent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, to perform the audit of the legacy AFW business as one component under our instruction and supervision.
We conducted full scope audits on 12 further components and the audit of specified balances and classes of transactions on a further 8 components.
The scope of work at each component was determined by its contribution to the groups overall financial performance and its risk profile.
Audit scope The group audit team performed the audits of 10 of the full scope components including those in the US.
We engaged our network firms in Australia, Norway and Guernsey to perform the audit procedures in their respective locations.
The components where audit work was performed accounted for approximately 80% of group revenue.
Key audit Appropriateness of revenue recognition on lump sum contracts.
matters Purchase price allocation arising on the acquisition of AFW.
Legacy, environmental, and other similar provisions.
Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture group and company.
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets and R&D credits group.
Recovery of unbilled revenue and accounts receivable group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of fraud in revenue recognition and management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Financial statements | Independent auditors' report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Appropriateness of revenue recognition on lump sum contracts Where controls were in place for the full year, we tested key internal financial controls over the calculation of revenue, including Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report and page 82 Accounting those used to determine the initial project set up and cost Policies.
estimations, and ongoing project review controls.
Revenue from lump sum contracts as a proportion of total revenue For a sample of contracts we obtained the percentage of has increased significantly following the acquisition of AFW.
Lump completion calculations, agreed key terms back to the signed sum contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract with contracts, tested the mathematical accuracy of the cost to reference to the percentage stage of completion at each reporting complete calculations and re-performed the calculation of revenue date.
Determining the percentage stage of completion for lump taken in the year based on the percentage of completion.
sum contracts requires significant judgement around forecast costs We discussed the sample of contracts selected with project to complete, which for longer term contracts may include a number managers and other members of senior management to of assumptions and estimates.
There is also added complexity understand the status of the contract, any changes from previous associated with assessing the forecast revenue which may include years, the key assumptions underpinning the revenue and costs, incentive payments and variation orders.
and the existence of any claims or litigation.
There may also be contract contingencies or customer claims which For forecast costs, we obtained the breakdown of costs and require measurement, or provisions required for loss making lump agreed a sample to supporting evidence such as labour rates, or sum contracts.
These provisions require significant judgement in subcontractor quotes.
For any variation orders above the original determining the status of the disputes, probability of future outflow, contract value we obtained the signed contract amendments, and the appropriate value of contract related provisions to recognise.
or where these were not available we inspected third party We focused on this area due to the material value of the revenue correspondence or legal advice as appropriate to support the recognised in the year from lump sum contracts, and the level of recognition of the variation orders and claims as revenue.
judgement required in estimating forecast costs, revenue and contract As part of our testing of significant contracts, we also assessed provisions.
the adequacy of contract provisions and managements assessment around the potential for liquidated damages for projects with delays.
For those contracts subject to claims, we have made enquiries of internal and external legal counsel to assess the adequacy of and corroborate the position taken by management.
Overall, we are satisfied that the groups accounting policies for lump sum contract revenue recognition and contract related provisions are reasonable and have been appropriately applied.
We obtained managements impairment model and tested the Carrying value of goodwill mathematical accuracy of the model and confirmed the CGUs Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 81 Accounting identified following the acquisition are the lowest level at which Policies and page 95 note 8. management monitors goodwill.
The carrying value of goodwill as at 31 December 2017 is $5.4 billion.
We performed audit procedures over the assumptions used in The goodwill balance relates to a number of acquisitions, the most respect of forecast growth rates and discount rates and involved significant of which being the groups acquisition of AFW $3.5 billion our valuation specialists to corroborate the appropriateness of the in 2017, as well as a number of smaller acquisitions in recent years.
rates used by reference to third party source data.
Following the AFW acquisition, management performed a We agreed the underlying cash flow forecasts used in the reorganisation and reassessed the underlying Cash Generating Units models to approved budgets and forecasts.
We evaluated the CGUs, resulting in the creation of 5 CGUs incorporating elements budgets and forecasts used within the model against current of the legacy WG and AFW businesses.
trading conditions and corroborated the reasonableness of Management undertook an annual impairment assessment in key assumptions including agreeing future cost synergies to accordance with their accounting policy.
The lower oil & gas price managements detailed plans.
environment since many acquisitions were undertaken, and the impact We performed sensitivity analysis by stress testing the valuation this has had on the results of the group, may have indicated that models to determine the degree to which the assumptions would goodwill is impaired.
need to move before an impairment would be triggered.
We focused on this area given the significant judgements involved, and Based on our work performed we conclude that the carrying complexity of valuation methodologies requiring the use of estimates, value of goodwill at the year-end is appropriate.
We agree with to determine whether the carrying value of goodwill is appropriate.
management that reasonably possible changes in assumptions would result in an impairment loss in the Asset Solutions EAAA cash generating unit and that the sensitivity disclosures included in note 8 in the financial statements comply with the requirements of IAS 36.
70 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purchase price allocation arising on the acquisition of Amec Foster We reviewed the recommended all share offer documents which were approved by shareholders and recalculated the implied Wheeler plc equity value based on the number of shares issued for the share Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 81 Accounting exchange.
We instructed our component teams to perform audit procedures The groups acquisition of AFW completed on 6 October 2017.
The over the material balances in the AFW balance sheet at the date consideration for the acquisition was $2.8 billion.
Intangible assets of acquisition and we reviewed their working papers.
acquired were valued at $1.3 billion and goodwill of $3.5 billion was With support from our valuation experts, we obtained an recognised.
understanding of the methodology applied in allocating the The group was required to complete an acquisition accounting exercise purchase price across intangible assets and goodwill.
This included discussions with managements third party experts, and in accordance with IFRS 3.
This comprised determining the fair value of understanding and assessing the scope of the experts work.
We the consideration payable and allocation of the consideration across also considered whether management had identified all potential the various identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, intangible assets intangible assets.
Management used third party experts to assist them in this exercise in the areas of property valuation and the In conjunction with our valuation experts, we benchmarked the key valuation of intangibles.
assumptions in the valuation models, including the discount rate, against our own internal data and recent public announcements This was an area of focus due to the material values associated with from other comparable companies.
the acquisition and the nature of the judgements and assumptions We compared the forecasts used within the intangible asset valuation management were required to make in determining the associated model to the AFW approved budgets at the time of the acquisition.
fair value of the assets acquired.
We understood the basis for the fair value adjustments attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired, and tested these adjustments to supporting documentation.
We tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Based on our work performed, we consider the fair value adjustments on the assets and liabilities, and the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill acquired, to be appropriate.
Legacy, environmental, and other similarprovisions We held discussions with managements internal and external legal experts and reviewed legal letters received from external Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 82 Accounting counsel.
We obtained supporting calculations and performed audit At 31 December 2017, the total legacy AFW group provisions, excluding procedures on the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and asbestos were $261.6m.
agreed the detailed assumptions underpinning the provisions to supporting documentation.
The estimation of the provisions involves significant judgment when determining the likely future outflow, in particular for longer term We considered the completeness of the provisions through review environmental liabilities which have a higher level of estimation of board papers, legal letters and claims correspondence.
We considered whether the disclosures made in note 18 were full and accurate.
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatements with regard tolegacy, environmental and other similar provisions.
Asbestos-related claim provisions We have performed procedures on both the UK and US asbestos liabilities.
Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 82 Accounting We examined the model maintained by managements asbestos Policies and page 108 note 18. valuation expert, and involved our actuarial experts to evaluate At 31 December 2017, the group had total provisions of $562.4m their work, considering the appropriateness of the methodology arising from claims against the legacy AFW businesses in the US and used and the reasonableness of assumptions including risk the UK relating to products previously manufactured which contained premium and considering alternative outcomes.
We agreed the accuracy of input data to the model by agreeing The estimation of the provisions involves significant judgment, to source documents, testing the effectiveness of the controls in place over the ongoing handling of that data, and vouching a in particular over the assumptions relating to the US litigation sample of defense and indemnity cash flows.
environment, such as the number and value of future claims.
We confirmed the valuation of the insurance cover held by the The group has insurance cover in place to partially offset the liability group by agreeing to source documents and considered the arising from claims in the US and the UK $132.4m included in other creditworthiness of insuring parties.
This was also considered in our work.
Finally, we tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Liabilities and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Based on our work, we consider the assumptions and approach adopted by management to be appropriate in arriving at a reliable estimate for the provision, and that the disclosures contained within notes 18 and 14 of the financial statements, to be appropriate.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Financial statements | Independent auditors' report Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture We tested managements assessment of the carrying value of EthosEnergy at 31 December 2017 by obtaining the latest offer Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 81 Accounting received for the EthosEnergy joint venture and compared this Policies and page 97 note 10. to the investment carrying value.
We tested the calculation of After accounting for the trading results from the joint venture for the the revised carrying value of the investment being the expected year ended 31 December 2017, the carrying value of the investmentin proceeds adjusted for estimated costs of disposal.
EthosEnergy at that date pre impairment was $105m.
Given the In addition, we performed substantive procedures over the VIU history of impairment charges within EthosEnergy and the risk of a model to confirm the appropriateness of the basis of the valuation further impairment this was an area of focus.
of the investment being the higher of fair value less cost to sell and Management have considered selling their share of the joint venture value in use.
We assessed the key assumptions within the model and discussions with a prospective buyer have continued during 2017. being short term cash flow assumptions, discount rate and long Management have compared the fair value less costs of disposal term growth rate.
implied by the potential selling price discussed with the prospective We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of the joint venture buyer with the carrying value which has resulted in an impairment and considered the appropriateness of this not being classified as charge of $28m being recorded.
The carrying value of the investment as held for sale.
at 31 December 2017 following the impairment is $77m.
Based on the work performed we concluded that the carrying Management also prepared a value in use VIU model which value of the groups investment in EthosEnergy at the year-end is presented a lower valuation than their assessment of fair value less appropriate and properly disclosed.
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax We assessed the valuation of tax exposures estimated by assets and R&D credits management.
Using our tax experts, we evaluated the range and quantum of risks associated with these exposures along Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 82 Accounting with claims or assessments made by tax authorities to date.
We Policies and page 92 note 5. have also inspected documentation in relation to tax audits to The group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions where uncertain tax ensure that exposures the tax authorities are raising have been positions and treatments may be challenged at a later date.
considered and provided for where necessary.
There are a number of tax associated balances across the group, the We tested the basis used by management in determining the most judgmental of which are provisions associated with tax risks, the quantum and period over which deferred tax assets and R&D tax completeness of uncertain tax positions, and the carrying value and credits will be recovered.
We have also assessed if managements recognition of deferred tax assets.
rationale over the length of time such assets will be recovered is supportable and consistent with prior periods based on There is judgement required in assessing the level of provisions to forecasting information and growth assumptions.
cover the risk of successful challenge of certain of the groups tax positions.
Provisions are held principally in respect of current tax From the work performed we are satisfied that the provisions deductions previously taken, ongoing tax audits, and uncertainties recorded in respect of tax risks and the carrying value of deferred on the utilisation of deferred tax assets.
This is an area which tax assets are appropriate.
requires management to exercise significant judgement.
Given the uncertainties inherent in establishing the group tax provisions there is a risk that these may be materially misstated.
Recovery of unbilled revenue and accounts receivable For long-outstanding accounts receivables and unbilled revenue aged greater than 90 days we tested the recoverability by Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 84 Accounting tracing to post year end cash collection invoicing.
Where the balance had not yet been invoiced or cash At 31 December 2017 group trade receivables and unbilled revenue collected, additional support was obtained including customer amounted to $1,705.1m.
correspondence, approved timesheets or approved purchase The level of risk associated with the recoverability of these balances is orders.
a result of continued market pressures and strain in the industry supply From the evidence we have obtained from the detailed procedures chain in light of the general decline in the core oil and gas market.
performed, we have not identified any material issues around Whilst the group has not incurred any significant bad debt write offs recoverability of unbilled revenue and accounts receivable.
in recent years, we believe the continued pressures in the supply chain, coupled with the magnitude of the balance is sufficient to warrant increased audit focus.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
In addition, our scoping also incorporated the significant impact of the acquisition of AFW during the year.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of a large number of components which make up the groups operating businesses within thefive Business Units and group functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed over the components either by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firmsoperating under our instruction.
EY were instructed by us to audit the acquired AFW business as one component.
After due and careful consideration this was deemed to be the most effective and efficient manner in which to obtain sufficient audit evidence.
It also mirrored the groups year end internal reporting.
The groups components vary significantly in size and we identified13 components that, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their relative size or risk characteristics.
Ten of these full scope component audits were performed by members of the UK group engagement team of which 5 were UK based and 5 were USA based.
72 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements These covered trading components and group managed balances including treasury, uncertain tax positions, post-retirement benefits, goodwill and intangibles.
Of the remaining 3 full scope components, audits of 2 components were performed by our PwC network firms in Australia and Norway and the audit of the final full scope component AFW was performed by EY.
Where component audits were performed by teams other than the group engagement team, members of the group engagement team were involved in their work throughout the audit.
We maintained regular communication and conducted formal interim and yearend conference calls with all full and specified procedure component teams.
Additionally, senior members of the group engagement team, including the group engagement leader, performed site visits to various locations in the USA including to legacy AFW locations.
Due to the size and nature of the acquired AFW business, this entity was classified as a significant component.
The group engagement team maintained sufficient oversight of the audit of AFW by performing the following procedures: Considered the competence, knowledge and independence of EY: Determined the scope and materiality of work to be performed by EY as component auditors, so that sufficient coverage and work was performed for the consolidated financial statements: Held a number of planning discussions with EY to understand their historic audit approach and risks, and to ensure that group instructions and approach were agreed and understood: Senior team members were involved in planning, interim and close out meetings with AFW management and EY: and Senior team members performed detailed reviews ofEYsworking papers.
Together these full and specific scope component audits gave appropriate coverage of all material balances at a group level.
On a consolidated basis, these components represent approximately 80% of group revenue.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Company financial Group financial statements statements Overall $30.0 million 2016: $14.6 million.
How we 0.5% of total revenues 2016: 5% of average profit before tax from continuing operations before An allocation of determined it exceptional items.
Rationale for We considered the following benchmarks when approaching the calculation of overall materiality - total An allocation of benchmark revenues, total assets, loss before tax and EBITA.
This year we concluded that the most appropriate group materiality.
applied benchmark was total revenue given profitability measures continue to be depressed as a result of the challenging core oil & gas markets and not reflective of the scale of the operations of the enlarged group following the AFW acquisition.
Revenue is also a benchmark used in the annual accounts and a key measure used by shareholders in assessing the performance of the group.
Using auditor judgement, we determined an overall materiality level of $30 million to be a reasonable amount, which equates to 0.5% of total revenue.
In previous years, materiality was based on the current period profit before tax before disclosed exceptional items.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $1 million and $15 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1 million group audit 2016: $730,000 and $1 million company audit 2016: $730,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors draw attention to.
However, because considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the not all future events or conditions can financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the be predicted, this statement is not a groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least guarantee as to the groups and companys twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Financial statements | Independent auditors' report Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 32 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 37, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 46 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 74 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Based on the records available, we were first appointed as auditors of John Wood Group PLC as John Wood Ltd, the predecessor entity prior to the company becoming a publicly listed company in 2002 on 5 June 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002, and have been annually reappointed by the members at the Annual General Meeting for subsequent financial periods.
Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is 15 years to John Wood Group PLC, covering periods from our initial appointment through to the period ended 31 December 2017.
During 2016, taking into account mandatory firm rotation rules, the group conducted an audit tender exercise, in which PwC did not participate, and will seek to appoint KPMG to perform the audit of the groups financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 at the May 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Aberdeen 19 March 2018 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75
