Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion, Capital & Counties Properties PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 63 and 64, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 39 million 2016: 41 million which represents 1 per cent of total assets.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 20 million 2016: 20 million which represents 1 per cent of total assets.
For income statement line items that are deemed to be of particular relevance, we applied a lower materiality.
Audit scope We audited the complete financial information of the Group, which comprises three business lines, Covent Garden, Earls Court and Other.
We audited the financial information relating to the sale of Venues including the Venues results attributable to the Group for the approximately three month period until the disposal.
Key audit matters Valuation of investment and development property Taxation Disposal of the Venues business We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent company to communicate in our report.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management and review of minutes of meetings of those charged with governance for the Group.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
90 90 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2017 Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Experience of Valuers and relevance of their work Valuation of investment and development property We read the Valuers reports from CBRE Ltd and JLL.
We confirmed that Refer to pages 62 to 64 Audit Committee Report, pages 102 to 106 the approaches used were consistent with the RICS guidelines and the Principal Accounting Policies and pages 102 to 137 notes to the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Valuers competence and capabilities and read their terms of The valuation of the Groups investment and development property is engagement with the Group, determining that there were no matters that the key component of the net asset value and underpins the Groups affected their independence and objectivity or imposed scope limitations result for the year.
The result of the revaluation this year was a loss of upon them.
90.9m 2016: loss of 231.2m, which is accounted for within Loss Data provided to the Valuers on revaluation and sale of investment and development property and is For investment and development properties, we validated a sample of a significant component of the result for the year.
The Groups property the data provided to the Valuers by management and found that it was portfolios, which comprise investment property including retail, food consistent with the information we audited.
This data included tenancy and beverage, commercial and residential as well as development schedules, capital expenditure details, cost schedules and square property located in central London, are not uniform in nature.
Therefore, footage details which we agreed back to appropriate supporting there are a number of different assumptions made by the Groups third documentation.
party valuers, JLL and CBRE Ltd the Valuers, in determining fair value: For development properties, we agreed that the planned schemes being Investment property The valuation of investment properties valued were consistent with the actual planned developments and, predominantly Covent Garden is inherently subjective, due where appropriate, had achieved planning consents.
principally to the individual nature of each property, which greatly influences the future rental it is expected to generate.
The assumptions Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers on which the property values are based are influenced by tenure and We met with the Valuers independently of management and gained an tenancy details for each property, prevailing market yields and the understanding of the valuation methods and assumptions used.
We estimated rental value of each property.
compared the movement in capital values over the period with market Development property The valuation of development property sector benchmarks to help identify significant changes in assumptions.
predominantly Earls Court is also inherently subjective.
Development The nature of assumptions used varied across the portfolio, depending properties are valued using the residual appraisal method i. e. by on the nature of each property but they included estimated capital estimating the fair value of the completed project using either a sales values, investment yields, estimated rental values, construction costs, comparison or income capitalisation method less estimated costs to finance cost and developers margins.
In each of these areas, and on a completion, finance cost and market based profit margin providing a sample basis, we compared the estimates and assumptions used by the return on development risk.
Valuers against our own expectations, using evidence of comparable Macro-economic factors and uncertain market conditions impact the market transactions.
Where we identified estimates and assumptions that valuation of investment and development property.
were outside the typical ranges used, we discussed these with the The fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property Valuers to understand the rationale and then assessed, based on all the valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement, available evidence and our experience in this sector, whether the use of warrants specific audit focus on this area.
the estimate or assumption was justified.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, in accordance with the Our testing, which involved the use of our internal real estate valuation RICS Valuation Professional Standards RICS.
experts, qualified chartered surveyors with deep market knowledge, indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in the context of the Groups property portfolio and reflected the circumstances of the market in the year.
com 9 91 1 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We assessed the principal assumptions and judgements made in Taxation arriving at the current and deferred tax position by using our experience Refer to page 62 to 64 Audit Committee Report, page 102 to 106 of similar matters in the industry.
Principal Accounting Polices and pages 102 to 137 notes to the We evaluate the tax provisions and potential exposures as at 31 financial statements.
December 2017, challenging the Groups assumptions and judgements Tax is a specific risk for the Group due to the degree of judgement through our knowledge of the tax circumstances.
involved in some of the ongoing activities of the Group.
This gives rise Our testing, which involved the use of our internal tax specialists, did to material tax considerations on the calculation, recognition, and not identify any matters that the Directors have not adequately reflected classification of current and deferred tax balances from both a tax in their calculation of the necessary current and deferred tax provisions.
Judgements are made by management to arrive at the current and deferred tax position.
These judgements include the impact of the Group holding structure.
Disposal of the Venues business We performed substantive procedures over the sale agreement, completion accounts, and gain on disposal workings relating to the The disposal of a significant business component, the Venues business, transaction.
We reviewed the related disclosures in the financial during the year is considered higher risk as it is a significant non-routine statements including the prior period re-presentation.
We therefore placed specific audit focus on this area.
We did not identify any material misstatements relating to the transaction.
We determined that there were no Key audit matters applicable to the Parent company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured along three business lines, Covent Garden, Earls Court Properties including the Lillie Square joint venture and the Empress State Building and Other.
The Venues business was disposed of during the year.
The Group engagement team audited all business lines, including the Venues business results reflected in the Group results for the period.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements 39 million 2016: 41 million.
Overall materiality 1 per cent of total assets.
How we determined it The key measure of the Groups performance is the The Parent Companys main activity is the holding Rationale for benchmark valuation of investment and development properties of investments in subsidiaries.
On this basis, and applied and the balance sheet as a whole.
On this basis, consistent with the prior year, we set an overall and consistent with the prior year, we set an overall Parent Company materiality level based on Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition to overall Group materiality, a specific materiality was also applied to certain areas of the income statement.
Our specific materiality is aligned with the metrics in the consolidated income statement that we believe are of particular interest to the members and we determined those metrics to be Net rental income and Net finance costs.
In order to reflect their specific characteristics, we applied materiality levels of 10 per cent of Net rental income and 10 per cent of Finance costs to each constituent line item within Net rental income and Net finance costs.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.9 million 2016: 2.0 million on balance sheet items as well as misstatements below that amount based on a proportionate value of the relevant materiality figures for income statement line items and other matters that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
92 92 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2017 Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to add or to Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate draw attention to.
However, because not to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the all future events or conditions can be Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys predicted, this statement is not a ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 to 61 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 to 61 with respect to the Parent Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
com 9 93 3 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 89 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 89, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 62 to 64 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
94 94 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2017 Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 3 June 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is eight years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2017.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2018 www.
