Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PageGroup plc Opinion In our opinion: PageGroup plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of PageGroup plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows Statement of cash flows Related notes 1 to 24 to the financial statements, including a summary Related notes 1 to 24 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work the directors statement set has been applied in their preparation is has been undertaken so that we might out on page 84 in the financial applicable law and International Financial state to the companys members those statements about whether they Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted matters we are required to state to them considered it appropriate to by the European Union and, as regards in an auditors report and for no other adopt the going concern basis of the parent company financial statements, purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted accounting in preparing them, and as applied in accordance with the by law, we do not accept or assume their identification of any material provisions of the Companies Act 2006. responsibility to anyone other than the uncertainties to the entitys ability to company and the companys members as continue to do so over a period of at a body, for our audit work, for this report, least twelve months from the date of Basis for opinion or for the opinions we have formed.
approval of the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance whether the directors statement with International Standards on Auditing Conclusions relating to principal in relation to going concern UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our required under the Listing Rules risks, going concern and viability responsibilities under those standards in accordance with Listing Rule are further described in the Auditors statement 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent responsibilities for the audit of the financial with our knowledge obtained in the We have nothing to report in respect of statements section of our report below.
audit: or the following information in the annual We are independent of the group and report, in relation to which the ISAs UK the directors explanation set out parent company in accordance with the require us to report to you whether we on page 39 in the annual report ethical requirements that are relevant to have anything material to add or draw as to how they have assessed the our audit of the financial statements in the attention to: prospects of the entity, over what UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard period they have done so and why the disclosures in the annual report as applied to listed public interest entities, they consider that period to be set out on pages 35 to 38 that and we have fulfilled our other ethical appropriate, and their statement as describe the principal risks and responsibilities in accordance with these to whether they have a reasonable explain how they are being managed requirements.
expectation that the entity will be or mitigated: We believe that the audit evidence we able to continue in operation and the directors confirmation set out have obtained is sufficient and appropriate meet its liabilities as they fall due on page 39 in the annual report to provide a basis for our opinion.
over the period of their assessment, that they have carried out a robust including any related disclosures assessment of the principal risks drawing attention to any necessary Use of our report facing the entity, including those that qualifications or assumptions.
would threaten its business model, This report is made solely to the future performance, solvency or companys members, as a body, in liquidity: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 85 | Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements We performed a full scope audit of 6 components of the Group and audit procedures on specific balances for a further Audit scope 5 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 83% of revenue, 83% of profit before tax and 82% of total assets.
Overall Gr oup materiality of 5.4 million which is based on 5% of profit before tax Materiality Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition for permanent and We performed the following full and specific scope audit procedures We concluded that temporary placements over this risk area at 11 components, which covered 83% of the revenue recognised revenue balance: for permanent and Refer to the Audit Committee Report temporary placements page 58 : Accounting policies page 96 : For permanent and temporary revenue streams, we identified is correctly recorded and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial and assessed the design of key controls to validate that revenue in accordance with Statements page 101 recognition was appropriate and applied in accordance with the the Groups revenue Groups accounting policies.
The Group has reported permanent recognition criteria placement revenues of 543.3million For 9 of the components, we used data analytics covering all and IFRS, and that the 2016: 476.3million and temporary revenue transactions in the year to test the correlation between provision for expected placement revenue of 828.3million 2016: revenue, accrued revenue, accounts receivable and cash.
For the remaining 2 components we tested the operating appropriate.
For permanent placements there is a risk effectiveness of key controls over revenue recognition and selected around the timing of revenue recognition a sample of permanent and temporary revenue placements for as revenue is recognised when customer detailed transaction testing to verify that the revenue recognition and candidate agreement is achieved, criteria had been met and revenue was recorded at the correct which may be several months in advance value.
of the start of employment.
Consequently, Performed period-end cut off testing for samples of revenue there is a risk that: transactions to check all revenue recognition criteria for the recognition occurs before revenue permanent and temporary placements had been met and that recognition criteria have been met: revenue had been recognised in the correct period.
period end cut-off is performed Compared the level of permanent placement revenue reversals over incorrectly: or the last 12 months, which occur as a result of non-completion of contractual placements, to the provision recorded against accrued management judgement is incorrectly income to determine if the assumptions used to calculate the applied in estimating the level of provision were appropriate.
We also re-performed the provision provision required for potential revenue calculation to confirm its accuracy.
reversals when placements are not taken up as agreed.
Performed sampling procedures to validate the existence of accrued revenue and trade receivable balances.
Temporary placement revenue is recognised when the customer has Performed journal entry testing around revenue, focusing on manual approved the timesheet.
Consequently entries and top-side adjustments specifically around year end.
there is a risk that: For all other components which represent 17% of the revenue revenue is recognised before an balance: approved timesheet has been For any component representing greater than 2% of the Groups submitted: or revenue we performed period-end cut off testing over for a sample that period end cut-off is performed of revenue transactions to check all revenue recognition criteria for incorrectly.
the permanent and temporary placements had been met and that revenue had been recognised in the correct period.
For both permanent and temporary placements we have identified the We performed audit procedures centrally on a country-by-country following risk: basis to address the risk of an undetected material error occurring in these components.
These comprised analytical review of revenue Management override by manipulation and gross profit, and ratio analysis of key performance indicators of revenue through manual or top-side including revenue and gross profit per fee earner.
Financial Statements | 86 In the prior year, our auditors report balances tested for the Group.
The charts below illustrate the coverage included a key audit matter in relation to obtained from the work performed by our The 11 reporting components where we the provision for transfer pricing.
performed audit procedures accounted determined that this no longer represents for: a key audit matter.
This judgement is based on our assessment that the 17% 2017 2016 59% likelihood of a material misstatement is Revenue Full scope 59% 62% lower, taking into account the risk of tax 24% components Revenue authority challenge, and that the overall Specific scope 24% 23% provision is less than audit materiality.
components Total 83% 85% An overview of the scope of Profit Full scope 57% 68% our audit before components tax 17% Tailoring the scope Specific scope 26% 22% 57% components Profit Our assessment of audit risk, our Total 83% 90% before evaluation of materiality and our 26% tax allocation of performance materiality Total Full scope 60% 57% assets components determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, Specific scope 22% 21% components this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Total 82% 78% 18% We take into account size, risk profile, 60% the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, Total assets Of the remaining 25 components that changes in the business environment together represent 17% of the Groups 22% and other factors such as recent Internal profit before tax, none are individually Audit results when assessing the level of greater than 3% of the Groups profit work to be performed at each entity.
For these components, we performed other audit procedures, In assessing the risk of material Full Scope components including analytical review procedures misstatement to the Group financial on a country-by-country basis, obtaining statements, and to ensure we had Specific Scope components an understanding of the group wide adequate quantitative coverage of Other procedures entity level controls over all components significant accounts in the financial and assessing the results of the Internal statements, we selected 11 of the 36 Audit reviews to identify any potential reporting components that represent Changes from the prior year risks of material misstatement to the the principal business units within the Group financial statements.
We have Group within the following countries: To incorporate an element of also verified bank reconciliations to test United Kingdom, France, United States, unpredictability and change into our cash balances and performed revenue Australia, China, Hong Kong, Italy, audit approach we rotated the smallest cut-off procedures around year-end at Germany, Spain, Netherlands and component from last years audit some of the larger locations within these Belgium.
Switzerland and replaced it with the remaining 25 components.
next largest component, Belgium Of the 11 components selected, we specific scope.
This year we also performed an audit of the complete performed additional revenue cut-off financial information of 6 components procedures centrally for the next full scope components which were 4 largest components not identified selected based on their size or risk as full or specific scope, namely characteristics.
For the remaining Switzerland, Japan, Mexico and Brazil.
5 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant 87 | Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Involvement with component teams audit team attended 3 regional audit materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our closing meetings or calls with regional planning materiality, namely 4.1million In establishing our overall approach to management and the Group CFO, at 2016: 3.6million.
the Group audit, we determined the type which key areas of local judgement and of work that needed to be undertaken at Audit work at component locations for audit findings were discussed.
each of the components by component the purpose of obtaining audit coverage auditors from other EY global network The Group audit team interacted over significant financial statement firms operating under our instruction regularly with the component teams accounts is undertaken based on or in some cases by us, as the primary where appropriate during various stages a percentage of total performance audit engagement team.
For the 6 full of the audit, reviewed key working materiality.
The performance materiality scope components, audit procedures papers and were responsible for the set for each component is based on the were performed by component audit scope and direction of the audit process.
relative scale and risk of the component teams.
Procedures on the Groups Head This, together with the additional to the Group as a whole and our Office were performed directly by the procedures performed at Group level, assessment of the risk of misstatement primary audit team.
Of the 5 specific gave us appropriate evidence for at that component.
In the current year, scope components, audit procedures on our opinion on the Group financial the range of performance materiality one of the components were performed statements.
allocated to components was 0.8million directly by the primary audit team.
For 2 to 1.8million 2016: 0.7million to of the full scope components, the United 1.18million.
Our application of materiality Kingdom and the US, the component Reporting threshold We apply the concept of materiality audit team included the Group audit in planning and performing the audit, senior manager from the primary audit An amount below which identified in evaluating the effect of identified team.
For the remaining 4 full scope misstatements are considered as being misstatements on the audit and in components and the 4 specific scope clearly trivial.
components, where the work was We agreed with the Audit Committee performed by component auditors, Materiality that we would report to them all we determined the appropriate level of uncorrected audit differences in excess The magnitude of an omission or group team involvement as described of 0.27m 2016: 0.24m, which is set misstatement that, individually or in below to enable us to determine that at 5% of planning materiality, as well as the aggregate, could reasonably be sufficient audit evidence had been differences below that threshold that, expected to influence the economic obtained as a basis for our opinion on in our view, warranted reporting on decisions of the users of the financial the Group as a whole.
Materiality provides a basis The Group audit team continued to for determining the nature and extent of We evaluate any uncorrected follow a programme of planned visits our audit procedures.
misstatements against both the that has been designed to ensure that quantitative measures of materiality We determined materiality for the Group the Senior Statutory Auditor visits all full discussed above and in light of other to be 5.4million 2016: 4.9million, scope locations at least once every 3 relevant qualitative considerations in which was based on 5% of profit years.
During the current years audit forming our opinion.
before tax 2016: 5% profit before tax.
cycle, visits were undertaken by the We believe that profit before tax is the Senior Statutory Auditor to the UK and principal consideration for stakeholders Other information Italy.
A visit to France and the Groups in assessing the financial performance of EMEA shared service centre SSC The other information comprises the the Group.
based in Spain was undertaken by the information included in the Annual Group audit senior manager.
These visits We determined materiality for the Parent Report and accounts other than the involved discussing the audit approach company to be 5.8million 2016: financial statements and our auditors with the component teams and any 5.8million, which is 0.5% 2016: 0.5% report thereon.
The directors are issues arising from their work, reviewing of total assets.
responsible for the other information.
key audit working papers on risk areas Performance materiality Our opinion on the financial statements and attending the audit closing meeting does not cover the other information for the Italian component with local The application of materiality at the and, except to the extent otherwise management.
The purpose of the visit to individual account or balance level.
explicitly stated in this report, we do the SSC was to obtain an understanding It is set at an amount to reduce to an not express any form of assurance of the SSC operations, perform appropriately low level the probability conclusion thereon.
walkthrough procedures for all significant that the aggregate of uncorrected and processes in relation to the countries undetected misstatements exceeds In connection with our audit of the now supported by the SSC, perform materiality.
financial statements, our responsibility independent testing of management is to read the other information and, in On the basis of our risk assessments, controls on some of the processes and doing so, consider whether the other together with our assessment of the perform audit procedures on one of the information is materially inconsistent Groups overall control environment, components for which Group audit team with the financial statements or our our judgement was that performance was directly responsible.
The Group knowledge obtained in the audit or Financial Statements | 88 otherwise appears to be materially We have nothing to report in respect of Opinions on other matters misstated.
If we identify such material the following matters in relation to which prescribed by the Companies inconsistencies or apparent material the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Act 2006 misstatements, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: determine whether there is a material In our opinion, the part of the directors adequate accounting records misstatement in the financial statements remuneration report to be audited has have not been kept by the parent or a material misstatement of the other been properly prepared in accordance company, or returns adequate for our information.
If, based on the work we with the Companies Act 2006. audit have not been received from have performed, we conclude that there branches not visited by us: or In our opinion, based on the work is a material misstatement of the other the parent company financial undertaken in the course of the audit: information, we are required to report statements and the part of the that fact.
the information given in the strategic Directors Remuneration Report to report and the directors report We have nothing to report in this regard.
be audited are not in agreement with for the financial year for which the the accounting records and returns: In this context, we also have nothing to financial statements are prepared or report in regard to our responsibility to is consistent with the financial certain disclosures of directors specifically address the following items statements and those reports have remuneration specified by law are not in the other information and to report as been prepared in accordance with made: or uncorrected material misstatements of the applicable legal requirements: other information where we conclude that we have not received all the the information about internal control those items meet the following conditions: information and explanations we and risk management systems require for our audit Fair, balanced and in relation to financial reporting understandable set out on processes and about share capital a Corporate Governance Statement page 84 the statement given by structures, given in compliance has not been prepared by the the directors that they consider with rules 7.2.
6 in the company the annual report and financial Disclosure Rules and Transparency statements taken as a whole is fair, Rules sourcebook made by the Responsibilities of directors balanced and understandable and Financial Conduct Authority the FCA As explained more fully in the directors provides the information necessary Rules, is consistent with the financial responsibilities statement set out on page for shareholders to assess the statements and has been prepared 84, the directors are responsible for the groups performance, business in accordance with applicable legal preparation of the financial statements model and strategy, is materially requirements: and and for being satisfied that they give a inconsistent with our knowledge information about the companys true and fair view, and for such internal obtained in the audit: or corporate governance code control as the directors determine is Audit committee reporting set out and practices and about its necessary to enable the preparation of on page 58 the section describing administrative, management financial statements that are free from the work of the audit committee does and supervisory bodies and their material misstatement, whether due to not appropriately address matters committees complies with rules fraud or error.
communicated by us to the audit 7.2.
7 of the FCA committee: or Rules.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing Directors statement of the Group and Parent companys ability to compliance with the UK Matters on which we are required continue as a going concern, disclosing, Corporate Governance Code to report by exception as applicable, matters related to going set out on page 52 the parts of In the light of the knowledge and concern and using the going concern the directors statement required understanding of the Group and the basis of accounting unless the directors under the Listing Rules relating to Parent company and its environment either intend to liquidate the Group or the the companys compliance with the obtained in the course of the audit, Parent company or to cease operations, UK Corporate Governance Code we have not identified material or have no realistic alternative but to containing provisions specified for misstatements in: do so.
review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do the strategic report or the directors not properly disclose a departure report: or from a relevant provision of the UK the information about internal control Corporate Governance Code.
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules 89 | Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We understood how PageGroup plc Auditors responsibilities for the Other matters we are required to is complying with those frameworks audit of the financial statements address making enquiries of management, We were appointed by the company Our objectives are to obtain reasonable internal audit, those responsible for in June 2011 to audit the financial assurance about whether the financial legal and compliance procedures statements for the year ended statements as a whole are free from and the company secretary.
We 31 December 2011 and subsequent material misstatement, whether due to corroborated our enquiries through financial periods.
fraud or error, and to issue an auditors our review of board minutes and report that includes our opinion.
papers provided to the Audit The period of total uninterrupted Reasonable assurance is a high level Committee.
Our assessment engagement including previous of assurance, but is not a guarantee included the tone from the top and renewals and reappointments is that an audit conducted in accordance the emphasis on a culture of honest 7 years, covering the years ending with ISAs UK will always detect a and ethical behaviour.
31 December 2011 to 2017. material misstatement when it exists.
We assessed the susceptibility of The non-audit services prohibited Misstatements can arise from fraud the Groups financial statements to by the FRCs Ethical Standard were or error and are considered material material misstatement, including not provided to the Group or the if, individually or in the aggregate, how fraud might occur by meeting Parent company and we remain they could reasonably be expected with management from various independent of the Group and the to influence the economic decisions parts of the business to understand Parent company in conducting the of users taken on the basis of these where it considered there was audit.
We also The audit opinion is consistent with considered performance targets the additional report to the audit and their propensity to influence on Explanation as to what extent the committee.
efforts made by management to audit was considered capable of manage earnings.
We considered detecting irregularities, including the programmes and controls fraud that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that The objectives of our audit, in respect otherwise prevent, deter and detect to fraud, are: to identify and assess Bob Forsyth Senior Statutory fraud: and how senior management the risks of material misstatement of Auditor monitors those programmes and the financial statements due to fraud: controls.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit Statutory Auditor Based on this understanding we evidence regarding the assessed risks designed our audit procedures of material misstatement due to fraud, London to identify non-compliance with through designing and implementing 6 March 2018 such laws and regulations.
Our appropriate responses: and to respond procedures were focused on appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud Notes: revenue recognition, which is identified during the audit.
The maintenance and integrity of described in more detail in our Key primary responsibility for the prevention the PageGroup plc web site is the audit matters and journal entry and detection of fraud rests with both responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not testing, with a focus on manual or those charged with governance of the involve consideration of these matters top-side adjustments.
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Our audit procedures were responsibility for any changes that may Our approach was as follows: have occurred to the financial statements communicated to and performed by We obtained an understanding of since they were initially presented on the our component teams.
the legal and regulatory frameworks A further description of our that are applicable to the Group 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom responsibilities for the audit of the governing the preparation and and determined that the most dissemination of financial statements financial statements is located on significant are those that relate to may differ from legislation in other the Financial Reporting Councils the reporting framework IFRS, FRS jurisdictions.
uk 101, the Companies Act 2006 and .
This description UK Corporate Governance Code forms part of our auditors report.
and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
There are no significant, industry specific laws or regulations that we considered in determining our approach.
