Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF IP GROUP PLC ONLY 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment We have audited the financial statements of IP Group of risks of material misstatement plc the Group for the year ended 31 December Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 2017 which comprise the consolidated statement professional judgment, were of most significance of comprehensive income, the Group consolidated in the audit of the financial statements and include statement of financial position, the consolidated the most significant assessed risks of material statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified of changes in equity, the Company balance sheet and by us, including those which had the greatest the related notes, including the accounting policies in effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation note 1. of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below In our opinion: the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit y the financial statements give a true and fair view significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, of the state of the Groups and of the parent together with our key audit procedures to address Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of those matters and, as required for public interest the Groups profit for the year then ended: entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based y the Group financial statements have been properly on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and prepared in accordance with International Financial solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion Union: thereon, and consequently are incidental to that y the parent Company financial statements have opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on been properly prepared in accordance with UK these matters.
accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Valuation of unquoted equity investments 860.3m: 2016: 433.8m Risk vs 2016: y the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Refer to pages 100 to 104 Audit Committee Report, Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the pages 125 to 127 accounting policy and pages Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 143 to 145 financial disclosures.
y The risk: Subjective valuation 51.8% of the Groups total assets by value is held in Basis for opinion investments where no quoted market price is We conducted our audit in accordance with available.
In October 2017 the Group acquired International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs Touchstone Innovations plc.
This acquisition lead UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are to significant increase in the number of unquoted described below.
We believe that the audit evidence equity investments held by the Group.
we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis Unquoted investments are measured at fair value for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with which is estimated by the directors based on our report to the audit committee.
methods such as prices of recent investment and We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders discounted cash flows.
Where price of recent on 13 May 2014.
The period of total uninterrupted investment is used, due to the relatively low engagement is for the four financial years ended number of investors partaking in funding rounds, 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical there is a risk that recent funding round prices responsibilities under, and we remain independent on which fair value is based are not sufficiently of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical at arms length to ensure an independent market requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as valuation representative of fair value.
Whether applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit it remains appropriate to use the price of the services prohibited by that standard were provided.
recent funding rounds depends on the specific circumstances of the investment, the stability of the external environment and the period since the last funding round occurred.
There are a number 110 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Auditors report of assumptions made by the directors when y Assessing transparency: Considering the using alternative valuation methods, such as a appropriateness, in accordance with relevant discounted cash flows, including the probability of accounting standards, of the disclosures related to achieving milestones and the discount rate used.
y Our results: We found the valuation of unquoted There is a concentration of risk within the equity investments to be acceptable.
unquoted valuation of Oxford Nanopore, of which the Groups stake is valued at 274.1m 2016: Carrying value of goodwill 172.1m: 246.2m, comprising 24% of the portfolio 2016: 2016: 57.1m Risk vs 2016: 40% and 17% of total assets 2016: 36%.
Refer to pages 100 to 104 Audit Committee Report, This risk is applicable to the parent company, page 124 accounting policy and pages 139 to 140 which also holds investments where no quoted financial disclosures.
y The risk: Forecast based valuation IP Groups y Our response Our procedures included: impairment review of goodwill involved the calculation of value-in-use through a discounted y Methodology choice: For a selection of cash flow model.
The estimated recoverable investments, assessing the reasonableness of the amount is subjective due to the inherent valuation approach used, considering these against uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting IPEV guidelines: future cash flows in the UK university spin-out For those valued using the price of recent company market.
Significant levels of judgement investment as an appropriate basis for the are inherent within the assumptions used, including measurement of the fair value at the time, the discount rate, gains on future investments, the evaluating the independence of the funding annual investment rate and the weighted average round on which this valuation is based and holding period of the Groups investments.
corroborating the price to signed Share y Our response Our procedures included: Subscription Agreements: y Assessing methodology: Assessing the principles For those valued based on a funding round and integrity of the value in use discounted cash aged greater than 12 months, corroborating flow: judgements through discussions with the investment team and independent support, y Historical comparisons: Comparing the such as investee board minutes: assumptions to actual cashflows achieved in the year, such as the annual investment rate: For those valued using alternative valuation methods, such as a discounted cash flows, y Sensitivity analysis: Considering the sensitivity of corroborating the underlying information back the valuation model to the key assumptions above to independent support, such as signed license through a sensitivity analysis that considered the agreements: impact of each assumption on the value in use: y Our corporate finance expertise: For a selection of y Assessing transparency: Assessing the Groups investments, when alternative valuation methods disclosures of the sensitivity of the outcome of the are used, assessing the principles and integrity of impairment reviews to changes in key assumptions the method using our own valuation specialist: against IAS 36. y Independent research: Conducting research into y Our results: We found the resulting estimate of the publicly available information, including news recoverable amount of goodwill to be acceptable.
websites and the companies own website, for indicators of fair value changes since the last funding round was set: y Valuation meetings attendance: Observing the Directors and senior finance personnel to assess their discussion and review of the investment valuations and methodology choice: 111 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Independent auditors report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF IP GROUP PLC ONLY Acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc 3.
Our application of materiality Goodwill recognition 108.5m Risk vs and an overview of the scope of 2016 New: our audit Refer to page pages 100 to 104 Audit Committee The materiality for the Group financial statements as Report, page 124 accounting policy and pages a whole was set at 16.8m 2016: 8.0m, determined 159 to 161 financial disclosures.
with reference to a benchmark of Group total assets, of which it represents 1% 2016: 1%.
y The risk: Subjective estimate On acquisition, identifiable assets acquired, including intangible Materiality for the parent company financial assets, and liabilities assumed are recognised statements as a whole was set at 12.9m 2016: separately from goodwill.
All assets acquired and 5.4m, determined with reference to a benchmark liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Touchstone of total assets, of which it represents 1% 2016: 1%.
Innovations plc are measured at acquisition-date We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee any fair value.
corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements The valuation of the unquoted portfolio has been relating to the statement of financial position estimated by the directors based on methods such exceeding 840,000 2016: 400,000, in addition as prices of recent investment and discounted to other identified misstatements that warranted cash flows.
The Directors have exercised judgement in Of the Groups 38 components 2016: 33, the identifying and estimating the fair value of the Group audit team subjected 15 2016: 8 to audits unquoted investments.
For any movements in fair to component materiality for Group audit purposes.
value of the assets at the acquisition date, there Due to nature of the Groups operations and the audit would be a corresponding impact on the amount approach, aggregation risk was deemed to be low of goodwill recognised.
and component materiality was set at 16.3m 2016: 7.9m.
These 15 entities account for 95.7% of the y Our response Our procedures included: Groups portfolio revenue and return 2016: 89.3%, Our sector experience: We considered the 86.2% of total profits and losses that made up the rationale for the acquisition to challenge the Groups profit before tax 2016: 78.6% and 98.5% of identification of intangible assets and goodwill.
We inspected available documents including For the remaining components, we performed the acquisition agreements and due diligence specified risk-focused audit procedures on specific reports, inspected board minutes and discussed balances and we performed analysis at an aggregated with Directors: group level to re-examine our assessment that there Assessing methodology: Assessing the were no significant risks of material misstatement principles and integrity of the valuation within these.
methods used by the directors to determine fair value of net assets at the acquisition date: Assessing Transparency: We assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the acquisition and estimation assumptions and whether they have been disclosed appropriately.
Our results: We found the identification and valuation of goodwill acquired to be acceptable.
112 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Auditors report Directors Remuneration Report 4.
We have nothing to report on In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration going concern Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We are required to report to you if: accordance with the Companies Act 2006. y we have anything material to add or draw Disclosures of principal risks and attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of longer-term viability the going concern basis of accounting with no Based on the knowledge we acquired during our material uncertainties that may cast significant financial statements audit, we have nothing material doubt over the Group and Companys use of that to add or draw attention to in relation to: basis for a period of at least twelve months from y the directors confirmation within the viability the date of approval of the financial statements: or statement page 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing y if the related statement under the Listing Rules set the Group, including those that would threaten its out on page 53 is materially inconsistent with our business model, future performance, solvency and audit knowledge.
liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
y the Principal Risks disclosures describing these 5.
We have nothing to report risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and on the other information in the Annual Report y the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the The directors are responsible for the other Group, over what period they have done so and information presented in the Annual Report together why they considered that period to be appropriate, with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the and their statement as to whether they have a financial statements does not cover the other reasonable expectation that the Group will be able information and, accordingly, we do not express an to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any they fall due over the period of their assessment, form of assurance conclusion thereon.
including any related disclosures drawing attention Our responsibility is to read the other information to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our Under the Listing Rules we are required to review financial statements audit work, the information the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the this respect.
financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: y we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: y in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and y in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Independent auditors report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF IP GROUP PLC ONLY Corporate governance disclosures 6.
We have nothing to report on We are required to report to you if: the other matters on which we are y we have identified material inconsistencies required to report by exception between the knowledge we acquired during Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to our financial statements audit and the directors report to you if, in our opinion: statement that they consider that the annual y adequate accounting records have not been kept report and financial statements taken as a whole is by the parent Company, or returns adequate for fair, balanced and understandable and provides the our audit have not been received from branches information necessary for shareholders to assess not visited by us: or the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or y the parent Company financial statements and the y the section of the annual report describing part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the work of the Audit Committee does not audited are not in agreement with the accounting appropriately address matters communicated by records and returns: or us to the Audit Committee.
y certain disclosures of directors remuneration We are required to report to you if the Corporate specified by law are not made: or Governance Statement does not properly disclose y we have not received all the information and a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK explanations we require for our audit.
Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Based solely on our work on the other information Directors responsibilities described above: As explained more fully in their statement set out y with respect to the Corporate Governance on page 107, the directors are responsible for: the Statement disclosures about internal control and preparation of the financial statements including risk management systems in relation to financial being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: reporting processes and about share capital such internal control as they determine is necessary structures: to enable the preparation of financial statements that we have not identified material misstatements are free from material misstatement, whether due therein: and to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent the information therein is consistent with the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, financial statements: and disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of y in our opinion, the Corporate Governance accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Statement has been prepared in accordance Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
114 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Auditors report Auditors responsibilities 8.
The purpose of our audit Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance work and to whom we owe our about whether the financial statements as a whole responsibilities are free from material misstatement, whether due This report is made solely to the Companys to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, work has been undertaken so that we might state but does not guarantee that an audit conducted to the Companys members those matters we are in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a required to state to them in an auditors report and material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, anyone other than the Company and the Companys they could reasonably be expected to influence the members, as a body, for our audit work, for this economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
JONATHAN MILLS A fuller description of our responsibilities is SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR provided on the FRCs website at for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor www.
Chartered Accountants Irregularities ability to detect 15 Canada Square London We identified areas of laws and regulations that could E14 5GL reasonably be expected to have a material effect on 29 March 2018 the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
