FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Ferrexpo plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Ferrexpo plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position: the consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash flows: the consolidated and Parent Company statement of changes in equity: the accounting policies: the related consolidated Notes 1 to 35: and the related Parent Company Notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Charitable payments Taxation Related party disclosure Our assessment of the Groups key audit matters is consistent with 2016 except for: i Going Concern, which is no longer considered a key audit matter as a result of improved iron ore pellet prices and increased actual and forecast cash flow generation: ii Impact of Bank F&C liquidation, which is no longer considered a key audit matter as the amounts relating to Bank F&C have been fully provided for in 2016: and iii Taxation, which is a new key audit matter due to the significance of a judgement in relation to whether or not to recognise a deferred tax asset for the previous Bank F&C losses, and ongoing challenges from the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine SFS, including the commencement of a transfer pricing audit in 2017.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was US$16.5 million, which was determined as 5% of the two-year average of profit before tax PBT and special items.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 Scoping We utilised Deloitte global member firms Component Auditors to report on the operations of the five material subsidiaries comprising the three mining and processing entities in Ukraine and the Swiss and Middle East marketing companies.
Material subsidiaries were determined based on i financial significance of the component to the Group as a whole, and ii assessment of the risk of material misstatements applicable to each component.
Our audit scope results in all major operations of the Group being subject to audit work, covering in excess of 94% of the Groups revenue, 95% of the Groups profit and 85% of the net assets.
First year audit We developed a detailed audit transition plan, designed to deliver an effective transition from the Groups transition predecessor auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
Our audit planning and transition commenced on 1 January 2017.
Our transition activities were performed for components located in the UK, Switzerland and Ukraine, which included but were not limited to meeting relevant partners and senior staff from EY, shadowing EY in the audit close meetings, attending the February 2017 Audit Committee meeting where the final report on the audit was provided, and reviewing EYs 2016 audit work papers.
Our transition focused on obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of internal control, evaluating the Groups accounting policies and areas of accounting judgement, and meeting with management across all major divisions.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their have nothing material identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to report, add or draw to do so over a period of at least 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of have nothing material the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, to report, add or draw weare required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect the disclosures on pages 34 to 39 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being of these matters.
managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 61 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 40 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures, drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Charitable payments Key audit matter In order to maintain its social licence to operate, the Group operates a CSR programme in Ukraine.
In 2013, description the programme expanded and, also in 2013, Blooming Land, a local charity based in Ukraine, was established with the primary function of coordinating the Groups CSR programme.
In 2017, this programme included Ferrexpo making charitable payments totalling US$28.4 million as disclosed in Note 7 out of which US$25.0 million 2016: US$25.2 million was paid to Blooming Land.
These activities are further described on page 48 of the Strategic Report and the Group oversight is described on page 63 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Blooming Land managed its activities via three related charitable funds the Sub Funds who carried out charitable activities by subcontracting individual event managers.
During the year 129 health-related events were reported to Ferrexpo as having taken place.
We identified a risk that the payments could be misappropriated or misapplied once the funds have been received by the Sub Funds.
Depending on the nature of any such misappropriation or misapplication, the risk is that the Groups financial statements i might not fairly present the nature of the expenditures made: ii might omit liabilities for any related breaches of laws and regulations involving the Group: and or iii might omit related party or other disclosures that ought to have been made.
Given the importance of transparent reporting and compliance, CSR payments to Blooming Land were considered as a significant risk area due to potential fraud and a key audit matter.
How the scope of We have reviewed the procedures performed and reporting provided to the Board of Directors from the Groups our audit responded Compliance Officer as required by the Groups CSR policy.
to the key audit matter We agreed CSR payments made to Blooming Land to bank statements.
We reviewed Board minutes of Ferrexpo Poltava Mining to ensure all CSR payments made to Blooming Land were approved.
We performed background checks on the beneficiary the effective administrator of Blooming Land and the Sub Funds.
We also performed background checks of the directors of the four funds and the individual event managers contracted by the Sub Funds.
We obtained and reviewed confirmations received by the Company from the individual event managers, the trustee of Blooming Land and the three Sub Funds that the funds had been received and applied for healthrelated charitable activities in Ukraine in compliance with local and international legislation.
We challenged management as to whether Blooming Land and the Sub Funds were independent or controlled by Ferrexpo.
We reviewed managements analysis that evaluated whether IFRS 10 criteria were met and whether these entities were controlled by the Group.
We determined that audit evidence was required from the Sub Funds and the individual event managers to evidence the nature and validity of the expenditure funded by Ferrexpo.
From the breakdown of costs by event, we sampled 12 events including four which we attended, for which we requested selected primary documents including invoices paid and bank transfer documentation.
We attended four events which occurred in 2017.
We made follow-up enquiries regarding the volumes of items ordered relative to the number of observed attendees and the treatment of significant surplus inventory.
We reconciled the cash balance in the four funds from the opening balance, plus funds received from Ferrexpo, less the total amount per the breakdown of costs by event in the year prepared by Blooming Land to the reported closing cash balance.
Key observations The results of our testing were sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our audit opinion.
We consider managements presentation and disclosures in relation to charitable payments to be appropriate.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Taxation Key audit matter The key audit matter related to taxation includes the following specific areas: description Deferred tax assets: In 2017, the Group implemented a new commercial structure in its operations in Ukraine.
As a result, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset DTA at one of its Ukrainian subsidiaries of US$28.8 million, of which US$24.0million relates to previously unrecognised tax losses and the remainder to previously unrecognised deferred tax assets on property, plant and equipment.
The Group also derecognised the deferred tax asset of US$25.4million previously recognised in relation to the losses which arose on deposits held with Bank Finance and Credit Bank F&C which was declared as insolvent and commenced liquidation proceedings in 2015.
Thiswas on the basis that the liquidator of Bank F&C has not recognised the Groups claims to losses of US$132.6million against the bank refer to Note 30.
Assessing the probability to the claim being recognised is highly subjective given the complex nature of the court proceedings and the further passage of time.
There is a risk that other deferred tax assets will not be recovered in the future due to i restrictions imposed by the Ukrainian government, or ii insufficient future profits.
Transfer pricing: The Group prices its sales between its subsidiaries using international benchmark prices for comparable products covering product quality and applicable freight.
The Group judges these to be on terms which comply with applicable legislation.
In August 2017, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine SFS commenced a tax audit at the Groups major subsidiary in Ukraine with a focus on cross-border transactions in terms of its pellet sales to another subsidiary of the Group.
The audit can take up to 18 months and there have been no findings to date.
This matter is described in Note 12 to the financial statements.
Significant judgement is required in applying the transfer pricing rules and in determining the probability of any loss in connection with the Ukrainian tax audit.
The taxation disclosure including accounting policies and description of key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out in Note 12 and considered by the Audit Committee on page 63 of the Annual Report.
How the scope of Deferred tax assets: our audit responded We involved specialists in Ukrainian tax legislation to review the commercial structure to determine whether to the key audit suchstructures were common in Ukraine and acceptable under Ukrainian tax legislation.
matter We have evaluated the projected profitability for the Ukrainian subsidiaries for purposes of evaluating the recoverability of the tax losses recognised in the current period.
We considered the appropriateness of forecast taxable profits and the consistency of these forecasts with theGroups budgets to support the recognition of the remaining deferred tax assets.
We have evaluated the latest developments in the litigation relating to Bank F&C including a review of correspondence received from the external legal counsel and discussed with them the potential outcomes forthis matter.
Transfer pricing: We have involved transfer pricing tax specialists in Ukraine to assess appropriateness of the transfer pricing policies and documentation in place prepared by management.
On a sample basis, we verified the calculation of prices for transactions that occurred in 2017 to be in line with the transfer pricing policy.
We have reviewed the correspondence with SFS and calculation of the assessed risk with assistance from UK tax and transfer pricing specialists.
In addition, we have reviewed recent similar cases in Ukraine and the results of the court proceedings.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Taxation continued Key observations Deferred tax assets: The liquidator still has not recognised the Groups claims and therefore we concur with the Groups derecognition of the deferred tax asset.
Transfer pricing: The SFS has set out a comprehensive information request in relation to transactions and period in scope and management has delivered all the required information.
No specific claim or findings have been communicated as of the date of this report.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the recorded tax assets, tax provisions and disclosures are appropriate.
Related party disclosure Key audit matter The Group enters into a substantial number of related party transactions, recording an expense of description US$40.0million and other income of US$0.5 million, of which US$21.6 million and US$0.5 million, respectively, relates to transactions with counterparties that are controlled by the Groups majority shareholder and CEO.
There is a risk of undisclosed related party transactions and transactions entered into that are not transacted on an arms length basis and not disclosed as such.
The related party disclosures are set out in Note 34 to the financial statements.
How the scope of We reviewed and evaluated managements process for identifying and recording related party transactions our audit responded and reviewed the design and implementation of managements controls around the approval of related party to the key audit transactions both at the level of the Group and individual entities.
matter We have reviewed the minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors and relevant sub-committees and confirmed there are no new related party transactions entered into in 2017 that are significant or outside the normal course of business.
For a sample of new counterparties in 2017 we searched for evidence of any related party relationships with the Group.
We did independent searches of the majority shareholder CEOs other business interests to test the completeness of the related party list.
We obtained the list of related parties confirmed by the Board of Directors and did not identify any counterparties on the list which were not included in the related party disclosures.
We have reviewed underlying contracts to understand the nature and commerciality of any new or significant related party transactions and assess whether they are executed on an arms length basis.
We reviewed disclosure of related party balances and transactions to determine whether they were in compliance with IAS 24.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the related party transactions and balances are appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Parent Company Group financial statements financial statements Materiality US$16.5 million 2016: US$12.0 million by the previous auditors US$14.4 million Basis for determining We have determined materiality by using 5% of a two-year average 20162017 1.5% of Parent materiality of profit before tax PBT and special items which comprised US$0.4 million of Companys net assets inventory and property, plant and equipment write-offs in 2017 and US$2.5 million of inventory, property, plant and equipment, receivables and prepayments and other write-offs and US$8.5 million of allowance for the Bank Finance & Credit restricted cash balance in 2016.
In 2016, the previous auditors used approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for the The profit before tax for the years 20162017 has been normalised in determining We consider the chosen benchmark applied materiality to exclude items which, due to their variable financial impact and or benchmark appropriate expected infrequency of the underlying events, are not considered indicative of due to the nature of continuing operations of the Group.
These items do not form part of the Groups the Parent Companys internally or externally monitored primary key performance indicators, and which operations being a ifincluded, would distort materiality year-on-year.
We consider this approach of using a two-year average to be more appropriate than an assessment based on current year results alone given the nature of the mining industry, which is exposed to cyclical commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a more stable base reflective of the scale of the Groups size andoperations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the PBT US$450 million Committee all audit differences in excess of US$0.825 million Group materiality 2016: US$0.6 million was used by the previous auditors for the US$16.5 million Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Component materiality range from US$6.6 million to US$10.7 million Audit Committee reporting threshold US$0.825 million PBT Group materiality An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environments, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
The Groups Parent Company and finance company are UK based, while the head office and marketing companies are based in Switzerland and the primary mining operations are located in Ukraine.
Considering operational and financial performance and risk factors, we focused our assessment on the significant components and performed full scope audits of the Swiss FAG and FME, Ukrainian FPM, FYM and FBM components and Ferrexpo plc company only, along with specified audit procedures at Ferrexpo Finance plc.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures cover revenue 94% of Group total, profit before tax 95% of Group total and net assets 85% of Group total.
The remaining 23 components represent 5% of Groups profit before tax and individually do not contribute more than 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
There were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have performed analytical procedures for these companies as well as testing of consolidation journal entities.
The work performed by the component audit teams is guided by the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from US$6.6 million to US$10.7 million.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED For full scope overseas components, the Group audit team was involved in the audit work performed by the component auditors in Ukraine and Switzerland through a combination of our global planning conference call meetings, in-country technical training, provision of referral instructions, review and challenge of related component inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing conference calls and weekly interaction on audit and accounting matters which arose.
Ferrexpo plc company only and Ferrexpo Finance plc are registered in the United Kingdom, hence the audit and specified procedures were carried out by the Group audit team.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UKCorporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance withListing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone otherthan the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report, if in our opinion, certain disclosures of report in respect of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited these matters.
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members at the Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is therefore one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
CHRISTOPHER THOMAS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 20 March 2018 Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
