Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Hansteen Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Investment property valuations.
Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 10.8 million which was determined on the basis of 2% of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we considered EPRA Earnings as defined in note 14 to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.5 million for items affecting EPRA Earnings.
Scoping We have performed a full scope audit over 96% of the Revenue, 99% of the Profit before tax and 96% of the Groups net assets.
Significant changes in We have identified the Founder LTIP as a key audit matter for 2017 due to the quantum of the charge in ourapproach the current year, the estimates made by management in determining the charge and the complexity in the calculation due to the return of capital in the year.
53 Independent Auditors report | continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 3 to the financial We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt draw attention to in respect of these matters.
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the draw attention to in respect of these matters.
course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 18 and 19 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors' confirmation on page 18 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 48 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Investment property valuation Key audit matter At 31 December 2017, the Group held wholly owned investment property valued at 808.1 million.
description Investment properties are held at fair value on the balance sheet.
During the year, a net valuation gain of 62.0 million was recorded excluding acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange gains.
The fair values are calculated by third party valuation experts using factual information, such as lease agreements and tenancy data, and their professional judgement concerning market conditions and factors impacting individualproperties.
The valuation process is a key source of estimation uncertainty, which is why we consider this to be a risk of material misstatement as well as a potential fraud risk.
In particular, changes in assumptions such as the market conditions surrounding property yields, estimated rental values, the time a property will remain vacant when a tenant leaves, the rent free period required to attract a new tenant, and the level of expenditure required to maintain the property can lead to significant movements in the value of the property.
See also key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 4, the investment property in note 18 of the financial statements and the Audit Committees report on pages 26 to 30.
How the scope of our We assessed and discussed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external auditresponded to the valuer.
We also assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer.
keyaudit matter We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuer to discuss the results of their work on a sample of properties.
With the assistance of an audit expert, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuation model, including yields, occupancy rates, lease incentives and break clauses.
We benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
54 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements Strategic report Governance Financial statements How the scope of our We tested the tenancy schedules for integrity by agreeing a sample of entries to lease agreements, and auditresponded to the agreeing a sample of lease agreements to the tenancy schedule to test for completeness.
keyaudit matter continued Audit analytics were applied to compare the audited tenancy schedule with the data provided to the valuers thereby testing the integrity of the underlying data used by the valuers in their valuations.
This was supported by review of the reconciliation that management had performed to determine whether the data used by the valuers matched the tenancy schedules maintained by the Group.
We further employed audit analytics to identify properties which exhibited valuation movements and yields outside of our predetermined benchmarks.
These were discussed in detail with the external valuers and key explanations provided were corroborated to underlying lease or cost data.
In addition, we tested a sample of other properties to determine whether the valuations were appropriately performed, and considered the value realised on property disposals compared to previous valuations to assess historical valuation reliability.
We checked that the valuation reports have been recorded correctly in the financial statements and appropriate disclosures have been made.
Key We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuation of the portfolio as a whole were supportable in light of observations available and comparable market evidence.
significant one-of transactions Key audit matter The nature of the Groups operations gives rise to one-o transactions which can result in significant gains and losses.
description In the year the Group completed: the disposal of its German and Dutch property portfolio: and the acquisition of the Industrial Multi Property Trust.
These transactions are, by their nature, one-o and are complex.
There are management j udgements inherent in their measurement, such as in calculating the value of the transaction or its resulting gain or loss, and their presentation in the financial statements which has a material impact on the results for the year.
See also significant accounting policies in note 3, the discontinued operations in note 15, disposal of subsidiary in note 16 and the Audit Committees report on pages 26 to 30.
How the scope of our In relation to the disposal of the German and Dutch portfolio, we have performed the following procedures: auditresponded to the tested the profit on disposal following the nalisation of the completion accounts mechanism: keyaudit matter recalculated the quantum of the recycled foreign exchange gains and losses previously recognised in Other Comprehensive Income: assessed the tax treatment arising from the disposal with involvement of a tax specialist: and reviewed the disclosures and reclassications in the Annual Report required by IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
In relation to the Industrial Multi Property Trust acquisition, we have performed the following procedures: assessed whether the accounting treatment proposed, including the transfer of control to the Group and full consolidation as a subsidiary, has been appropriately recorded in the accounts: and challenged the allocation of the purchase price between the assets and liabilities on acquisition in line with the accounting standards.
We evaluated the presentation and related disclosure of the significant one-o transactions in the Annual Report.
Key We concluded that significant one-o transactions during the year were properly accounted for and disclosed.
observations Founder LTIP Key audit matter The Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP was established at IPO in November 2005 to incentivise the description Joint Chief Executives.
On 1 January 2016, the current three-year Founder LTIP performance period commenced.
As set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee pages 33 to 46, the calculation methodology in the current three year performance period was modied to allow for the impact of the return of capital to shareholders during 2017.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Pay ments a charge is recognised in the income statement over the performance period based upon the expected value that the award will pay out.
There is a risk of an inappropriate recognition of the current period share-based payments charge due to the j udgements and assumptions applied in forecasting the future performance of the Group, including no forecast change in property values.
There is also a risk that insucient prominence and disclosure could result in the impact of the Founder LTIP scheme not being clear to users of the financial statements.
See also significant accounting policies in note 3 and share-based payments in note 32.
55 Independent Auditors report | continued Founder LTIP continued How the scope of our We reviewed minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Remuneration Committee, in addition auditresponded to the to evaluating the scheme agreements and other correspondence between the Group and the Founder keyaudit matter LTIPmembers.
We reviewed the professional advice received by the Remuneration Committee and assessed whether it was appropriately implemented by management in the calculation to determine the correct charge of 19.1 million to be recognised in the period in accordance with IFRS 2.
We evaluated the level of disclosure in the Annual Report, in particular the presentation of the charge within diluted metrics and adj usted performance measures.
Key We concluded that the Founder LTIP was appropriately accounted for and disclosed.
observations Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of areasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional j udgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 10.8 million 2016: 14.0 million and a lower materiality of 1.0 million 2016: 1.5 million.
1.5million 2016: 2.7 million for balances aecting EPRA earnings.
Basis for 2% of net assets 2016: 1.5% of net assets.
Materiality for Parent Company represents less determining than 0.5% 2016: 1.0% of net assets which we materiality The lower materiality used for balances impacting EPRA earnings considered appropriate for the consolidation of was determined using 5% 2016: 5% of EPRA earnings.
this set of financial statements to the Groups results.
Rationale for the We determined Group materiality using net assets on the basis that We determined the Parent Company materiality benchmark applied the Group is an asset-intensive business, with shareholder value using net assets on the basis that the Parent being driven by net asset value movements.
The most significant Company has limited trading and holds significant balances in the financial statements are investment property and investments in subsidiaries of the Group therefore associated borrowings.
equity was used as an appropriate benchmark.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA earnings per share to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors.
EPRA earnings per share is based on the Groups EPRA earnings which is reconciled to IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent in note 14.
We applied a lower threshold of 1.5 million, which represents 5% of EPRA earnings, for testing all balances impacting EPRA earnings.
557.6m 30m 1.5m 10.8m 0.76m- 5.4m- 1.06m 7.5m 0.5m 0.5m EPRA Earnings NAV Group materiality Group materiality Component materiality range Component materiality range Audit committee reporting threshold Audit committee reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit dierences in excess of 540k 2016: 700k for the Group, as well as dierences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
56 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements Strategic report Governance Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, where full audits were carried out based on our assessment of the identied risks of material misstatement identied above.
Full audits of Germany and the Netherlands were required as these j urisdictions were operational in the Group until the disposal completion in mid-June 2017.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the wholly owned entities in the United Kingdom and the component audit of Germany, and for the Netherlands, local component auditors performed the audits, based on instructions from the Group audit team.
In addition, the Group team also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subj ect to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The components subj ect to a full audit represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 96% 2016: 98% of the Groups revenue, 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups profit before tax and 96% 2016: 99% of the Groups net assets.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component and ranged between 5.4 million to 7.5 million 2016: 7.0 million to 9.1 million, excluding the Parent Company.
Revenue profit before tax Net assets 1% 4% 4% 96% 99% 96% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at Group level Review at Group level Review at Group level Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in included in the Annual Report including the Strategic Report, Audit Committee Report, Nomination respect of these matters.
Committee Report, Chairmans Corporate Governance Statement, Remuneration Committee Report, Directors Remuneration Report, Directors Report and Directors Responsibility Statements other than thenancial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or A udit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
57 Independent Auditors report | continued Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report in respect of of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report these matters.
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure We were appointed by the Company on 30 November 2005 to audit the financial statements for the years ending 31 December 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor by the Company on 19 March 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 12 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Claire Faulkner, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 58 19 March 2018 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements
