STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under the financial statements give a true and fair view of the those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our the Group financial statements have been properly prepared audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these the parent company financial statements have been properly requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting parent company.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of GKN plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated cash flow statement: the related notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 30: and the related notes to the company financial statements 1 to 5.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
com 97 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Existence and valuation of inventory: Presentation and disclosure of the adjustments arising from the balance sheet review in Aerospace North America: Management override of controls: Carrying value of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets: Assumptions made in determining pension liabilities: and Presentation and disclosure of non-trading items.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 23.5 million.
We determine materiality using profit before tax adjusted to exclude the impact of changes in valuation of derivatives and other financial instruments, impairment charges and losses arising as a result of changes in group structure as it provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
Scoping We selected 55 reporting units representing 44% of the Groups revenue where we requested components auditors to perform a full scope audit of the components financial information.
We also requested component auditors to perform specified audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions at a further 48 reporting units.
These units represented a further 42% of the Groups revenue.
A full audit was also performed at the SDS joint venture in China, which represented 96% of the share of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
Significant changes We presented our audit plan to the Audit & Risk Committee in September 2017.
As set out on page 105, below, this in our approach included a planned reduction in full scope audits and increase in focused audit procedures due to our scope being higher in 2016 as it was our first year as auditor.
As a result of certain matters identified by management, reported in the trading updates issued in October and November, we refined our audit approach identifying new risks and expanding the scope of work as follows: We extended the scope of our audit to include all of the Aerospace North American businesses which management was investigating in their balance sheet review: We increased the minimum levels of risk we associated with inventory, accounts receivable and other payables at a number of businesses, including specifically identifying an additional key audit matter in relation to inventory existence and valuation at a number of locations: We updated the key audit matters in relation to both management override of controls and financial presentation, with a specific focus on the reporting and disclosures of the adjustments arising from the North American Balance Sheet Review: We performed enhanced management override procedures at all businesses in scope for group audit testing.
This included extending our audit procedures in relation to journals, balance sheet reconciliations and enquiries of management: and We reduced group materiality reflecting the lower forecast result and the anticipated adjustments arising from the North American Balance Sheet Review.
98 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 29 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt add or draw attention to in the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their identification of any respect of these matters.
material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the add or draw attention to in knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the respect of these matters.
Directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 30-39 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on pages 30 and 54 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, Key audit matters from the prior year which have not been included in were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the the current year audit report include: current period and include the most significant assessed risks of Recoverability of material contract related assets relating to material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
development costs and other intangibles arising from acquisitions.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the Aerospace programmes with material exposures have now reached overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and a level of profitability where impairment risk is reduced.
directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This has not been included because there has These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the only been one material contract modification in the year.
Whilst we financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, audited the accounting for and effect of this modification it has not and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
required a significant amount of audit effort.
New key audit matters in the current year reflect changes in our risk assessment and include: Existence and valuation of inventory specifically in relation to the Aerospace North American businesses which were subject to the management balance sheet review and four other businesses where we identified heightened risks of material misstatement.
Presentation and disclosure of the adjustments arising from the North American Balance Sheet Review.
Management override of control which has been elevated to represent a key audit matter in 2017 given the perceived increase in risk in Aerospace North America which led to enhanced management override procedures being performed.
com 99 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Existence and valuation of inventory Key audit matter Refer to page 26 Strategic report and page 68 Audit & Risk Committee report, and note 2 Segmental analysis.
description Following ongoing pricing pressure, continuing operational challenges and the impact of programme transitions, a detailed review was carried out by management in the GKN Aerospace North America Alabama plant which resulted in a 15 million charge relating principally to programme inventory balances.
The subsequent balance sheet review across Aerospace North America identified inventory write-downs totalling a further 64 million.
Given the nature of the adjustments identified and the quantum of the write off we identified a significant risk and key audit matter relating to the existence and valuation of inventory at these locations.
As set out in note 15 to the accounts total inventories are 1.4 billion of which 523 million relates to WIP and 370 million to finished goods.
Estimation is required in determining the recoverable value of inventory.
As part of our risk assessment, using our programme specific knowledge at each location as well as a range of metrics including stock turn and inventory provisioning percentage, we identified inventory balances either similar in nature to those where write-downs had occurred, or sites where inventory displayed characteristics which appeared to be outliers to the divisional norm.
Given the adjustments identified by management the focus of our key audit matter was inventory existence and valuation at these locations.
Inventory where we identified a key audit matter in relation to either its existence or valuation totalled 363 million.
In locations where we had previously considered inventory to be a higher risk, and recognising the aggregation risk with the balances identified above, we also updated our risk assessment to consider inventory valuation and existence at these sites to be significant risks.
How the scope of our Members of the group audit team visited our local component audit teams at each business where significant audit responded to the risks were identified in relation to inventory.
We designed audit procedures which responded specifically to the key audit matter local risks identified.
In response to the significant risk we performed additional procedures which included: testing of the design and implementation of key controls such as the periodic counting of inventory and review of inventory provisions: performing detailed sample tests of inventory identified at the stock count, including focused testing on quarantined WIP, tying each sample to the relevant engineering assessment and making direct enquiries of engineers and programme managers to understand the nature of the stock and its realisable value: evaluating the findings of the independent engineers, engaged by management to challenge the companys assessment of inventory, and the independence and competence of the external engineers, together with the scope of their work, in order to enable us to place reliance on the work of managements external engineering consultant: performing testing of net realisable value of finished goods against subsequent sales: performing a profitability review by programme: and performing movement analysis on the inventory balances to understand the movement of WIP.
Key observations From our work performed we found inventory to be fairly stated and that the inventory write downs the company recorded in the Aerospace North American sites of 79 million were materially appropriate.
100 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Presentation and disclosure of the adjustments arising from the North American Balance Sheet Review Key audit matter Refer to page 26 Strategic report, page 68 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 2 Segmental analysis.
description As referenced above, in the final quarter of 2017 management carried out an investigation into potential accounting adjustments in Aerospace North America.
This led to the identification of 123 million of adjustments including the 15 million charge in relation to Alabama which was reported in October 2017.
Working with independent advisors, management sought to age the adjustments identified and in doing so determine which may have been reflective of circumstances that existed at 31 December 2016 and therefore merit consideration for a prior year restatement.
IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, defines a prior period error as an omission from, and misstatement in, the entitys financial statements for one of more prior periods resulting from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable information that was available when the financial statements were authorised for issue and could reasonably have expected to have been obtained and taken into account.
When such a determination has been made IAS 8 requires restatement where prior period errors have a material impact on the financial statements.
It distinguishes prior period errors from accounting estimates which, by their nature, may need to be revised as additional information becomes known.
IAS 8 defines a material misstatement as one that could, individually, or collectively, influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements.
The review concluded that 22 million of the adjustments constituted prior period errors under IAS 8.
Management concluded that the prior period error of 22 million, considered individually or in aggregate with the range of other items which may contain both an element of error and change in estimate, were neither qualitatively or quantitatively material and a restatement of the prior year financial statements was not required.
Given the complexity in the judgements taken by management, our key audit matter focused on whether the adjustments were appropriately presented and disclosed.
How the scope of our In addition to the procedures set out in relation to the inventory existence and valuation, we performed specific audit responded to the audit procedures to analyse the nature of the adjustments.
These procedures were designed to assess whether key audit matter adjustments related to estimation or error, and the availability of information to make those adjustments at the prior year end.
This included: making direct enquiries of external advisers, including those performing the conduct review and the balance sheet review: re-performing ageing calculations and re-calculating provision levels: testing of the completeness and accuracy of reports used to identify which inventory adjustments in 2017 related to inventory which existed in 2016: reviewing a key contract and understanding the nature and status of negotiations with that customer to challenge the point at which it became onerous: assessed the information available, or which could have been reasonably expected to be taken into account, at 31 December 2016: and reviewing prior year work papers, the conduct review and our wider audit procedures to search for evidence that the prior year error was larger than 22 million.
In order to determine whether the level of error was material, we reviewed managements paper and the rationale they provided for not restating the prior year financial statements.
We have challenged their views and formed our own opinion, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative, factors in determining whether a restatement is required.
Key observations Having completed our procedures, we concur with managements judgement that the impact of the identified prior year error is not material and so no restatement of previous results is required.
com 101 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Management override of controls Key audit matter Refer to pages 68 and 71 Audit & Risk Committee report.
description Management is in a unique position to override controls that otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
In the final quarter of 2017 an investigation in to potential accounting adjustments in North America was undertaken.
As set out above we identified a key audit matter relating to the carrying value of inventory and another relating to the presentation of the findings.
In addition to these matters we considered whether the adjustments identified in the Aerospace North American balance sheet indicated a breakdown in the control environment in those businesses and therefore a heightened risk that controls preventing management override had not operated effectively.
As a result, we identified an additional key audit matter relating to management override of controls across all businesses in our group audit scope.
The Aerospace North America review management performed included an assessment of the root causes and potential failures in GKNs internal control and risk management systems which provides a base for future remediation.
How the scope of our In addition to the procedures above to respond to the inventory and presentation key audit matters, we audit responded to the extended our audit testing to perform enhanced management override procedures at all material in scope units.
key audit matter This included, but was not limited to: understanding the overall governance and oversight process surrounding managements investigation, including the balance sheet review and conduct review: examining the scope and results of work carried out by managements experts.
We utilised an in-house forensics team to support our procedures and challenge, specifically in relation to the scope of work and performance of the conduct review: making direct enquiries of the lawyers involved in the conduct review to understand the procedures performed in reaching their conclusion that there was no hard evidence of fraud or deliberate misconduct: evaluating the specific changes made to the inventory provisioning approach: using our journal interrogation tools to perform journal testing at 78 in-scope businesses by reconciling a complete population of journals and selecting those that met our specific risk criteria based on our professional judgement and scepticism: reviewing balance sheet reconciliations related to other payables and other receivables and testing reconciling items to a lower level of materiality: using our questionnaire to make direct enquiries of over 100 personnel at local sites to identify any potential fraud risks: and examining the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors.
Key observations From our work we have not identified any indicators of inappropriate management override of controls in these areas.
102 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Carrying value of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets Key audit matter Refer to page 69 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and presentation, note 11c description Goodwill and other intangible assets and note 12 Property, plant and equipment.
The Group holds goodwill of 492 million, other intangible assets of 1.2 billion and tangible assets of 2.7 billion at 31 December 2017.
The Group recognised impairment charges of 131 million in 2017.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires the Group to perform an annual impairment test on goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles and to perform a review for impairment of other assets where there are indicators that the carrying value of assets exceeds their recoverable value.
The latter is relevant to businesses such as St. Louis which has no goodwill balance but demonstrated indicators of impairment during the year.
We identified two key audit matters relating to the carrying value of assets and the annual impairment review as follows: Managements estimate of cash flows to support the business valuation for EP West and St Louis, which we assessed to be a key audit matter as the businesses have faced operational challenges in the year and a reasonably possible change in assumptions could give rise to a material impairment: and Identification and allocation of goodwill to cash generating units CGUs within the Driveline division, where business change prompted a review of the historical CGU structure and judgements were required to be taken as to whether cash inflows continued to support the historical CGU assessment.
We tested a number of other risks associated with the carrying value of goodwill but did not consider them to represent key audit matters where significant additional audit effort was applied.
These included two areas which were identified as key audit matters in the prior year being the derivation of discount rates and long growth rates, and the presentation of the results of the impairment review in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36.
How the scope of our We have obtained and understood the Directors impairment models for those CGUs where the carrying value is audit responded to the subject to significant management judgement.
We have challenged managements key assumptions around the key audit matter business drivers of the cash flow forecasts for EP West and St Louis.
In evaluating the forecast cash flows presented we have: obtained support for forecast sales growth: agreed cost savings to detailed management plans and savings already contracted: assessed the future margins relative to historical performance for each CGU and evaluated the risk factors in the cash flows by reference to forecasting accuracy: compared the position set out by management to our understanding of industry factors relevant to that CGU: challenged whether the period management have used internal cash flows forecasts for prior to the perpetuity calculation is supportable: directed our internal valuation specialists to review the detailed impairment model to ensure it complies with the requirements of IAS 36 and is a robust mathematical valuation model including assessing the discount rates and growth rates applied: and considered whether the value in use methodology represents the highest recoverable value and whether managements future intentions support the use of the value in use model.
In determining the identification of CGUs we have made enquiries of management and challenged the fact pattern, including considering the independence of cash inflows and challenging whether each plant should represent its own CGU.
We obtained support for the current level of interaction between plants within subsegments, and therefore for the new CGU structure.
We recalculated the allocation of goodwill, and other non-monetary assets, between the new CGUs and tested impairment reviews prepared by management.
Key observations From our work performed we are satisfied with the carrying value of assets recognised and the identification of cash generating units.
com 103 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued Assumptions made in determining pension liabilities Key audit matter Refer to page 39 Risk management, page 69 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and description presentation and note 24 Post-employment obligations.
The Group has a number of defined benefit obligation schemes with a gross liability of 4.4 billion, the majority of which relates to schemes in the UK, US and Germany.
We have identified a key audit matter relating to the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities in the UK, US and Germany with specific focus on management judgements exercised in selecting the discount rates used to determine the pension liability in accordance with IAS 19.
A relatively small change in assumptions could cause a material impact on the liability.
How the scope of our We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions for the UK, US and German schemes.
audit responded to the Our assessment included reviewing yield curves to recalculate a reasonable range for the key assumptions.
key audit matter We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in key assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculations.
Additionally, we benchmarked key assumptions against other listed companies to identify any outliers in the data used.
Key observations From the work performed we are satisfied that the significant assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme liabilities are appropriate and that the discount rate methodology responds to specific market conditions at 31 December 2017.
Presentation and disclosure of non-trading items Key audit matter Refer to page 69 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and presentation and note 3 description Adjusted performance measures.
Trading profit, a non-statutory measure, is used by the group to report the business performance to investors and wider stakeholders.
We have identified a key audit matter relating to the presentation of the financial performance of the group, including the separate identification of non-trading items in arriving at the trading profit measure, and the completeness of items separately identified.
The non-trading items excluded from trading profit in 2017 represent a net credit of 131 million 2016: net charge of 349 million, which comprises changes in derivatives and other financial instruments, amortisation of non-operating intangible assets and impairment charges.
Applying consistent principles in determining which items of profit or loss should be separately presented, or referenced in narrative, is important to avoid distorting the reported result.
How the scope of our We challenged and understood managements rationale for including certain items outside trading profit to audit responded to the provide appropriate disclosure in the financial statements.
This was performed in the context of recent regulatory key audit matter guidance, ensuring the purpose of using alternative performance measures was set out and that they were clearly defined, consistent over time and included appropriate reconciliations to statutory financial information.
We assessed the completeness of items separately identified as non-trading items through an examination of costs recorded to determine whether they only related to those non-trading items defined above.
We agreed the amounts recorded through to underlying financial records and other audit support to verify the amounts disclosed were complete and accurate.
We focussed our review of the Group financial statements on the financial statement and narrative presentation of items which may be considered to be non-recurring in nature to determine whether principles are being consistently applied and the resulting financial presentation is true and fair.
We checked whether the narrative within the financial statements is balanced and that there are no items in trading profit which are outside of the ordinary course of business and materially distort the result.
Key observations We are satisfied that the items excluded from trading profit and the related disclosure of these items in the financial statements are in line with the accounting policy.
104 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our application of materiality We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million 2016: We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 1 million as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for An overview of the scope of our audit the financial statements as a whole as follows: During the year the Group restructured to recognise three separate segments operating principally in two markets, being the aerospace Group financial Parent company and automotive markets.
The three segments are: statements financial statements GKN Aerospace, mainly located in the UK, US, Sweden and Materiality 23.5 million 22.3 million the Netherlands: 2016: 25.0 million 2016: 22.3 million GKN Driveline, mainly located in Europe and North America as well Basis for Materiality was determined Materiality was based as a material joint venture in China: and determining as approximately 5.5% of on net assets capped GKN Powder Metallurgy, mainly located in North America as well materiality adjusted pre-tax profit at the component as sites in Europe and Asia Pacific.
which was determined on materiality level which the basis of profit before supports our group Each division consists of a number of reporting units, and manages tax adjusted to exclude the audit opinion to reflect operations on a geographical and product basis.
There are 236 impact of changes in aggregation risk.
reporting units in total, each of which is responsible for maintaining valuation of derivatives and their own accounting records and controls and using an integrated Net assets total other financial instruments, consolidation system to report to UK head office.
Component impairment charges and materiality represents Our audit was scoped using the detailed understanding of the Group losses arising as a result of 1% of net assets.
we gained in the prior period as well as our understanding of operational changes in group structure, activities in the year, commercial markets and geographies the Group Adjusted PBT.
We also considered the controls exercised by management Rationale We determine materiality The entity is nonat a business, divisional and group level.
In the prior year we performed for the using Adjusted PBT trading and its financial detailed on site audit procedures at 78 reporting units.
This enabled us benchmark as it provides us with position comprises to gain a detailed understanding of the Group in our first year.
Given the applied a consistent year on year intercompany nature of the Group and its systems we continue to be of the view that basis for determining investments, high coverage is required to gain sufficient assurance to provide an materiality.
As a public receivables and opinion on the Group financial statements.
In the current year, building company we consider payables, therefore net on the information obtained in the prior year, we focused our component profit is most aligned to the assets is considered an audit teams on testing account balances, classes of transaction and interests of the users of the appropriate basis.
disclosures that presented risks of material misstatement in a particular financial statements.
business rather than performing full scope audits in all locations.
In line with our expectations for our recurring audit, from year two onwards, we performed full scope audits at a lower number of reporting units in 2017 55 compared to 2016 71.
Together these businesses represented 44% 2016: 68% of the Groups revenue.
We requested component auditors to perform specified audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions at a further 48 2016: 47 reporting units.
These units represented a further 42% 1 2 23.5m 2016: 20% of the Groups revenue.
A full audit was also performed at the SDS joint venture in China, which represented 96% 2016: 86% of the share of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
Following the identification of the accounting adjustments in Aerospace North America, we expanded our scope in the US to perform audit work at three businesses two Aerospace, one Powder Metallurgy which were not originally in scope.
To introduce additional unpredictability 1 Adjusted PBT 427 million into our procedures we also added two additional businesses in 2 Group materiality Driveline Europe.
Given the focus of management, and their advisors, Group materiality 23.5 million on the Aerospace North American businesses extending the coverage Component materiality range 4 million to 9 million for of group reporting to account balances, transactions and components trading entities and 22 million for GKN plc.
Audit & Risk Committee reporting threshold 1 million gkn.
com 105 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc continued outside of this sub-segment was deemed an appropriate response We increased this interaction during the period November 2017 to to ensure that the adjustments were limited to that market.
February 2018 reflecting the changing pressures in the Group including the November balance sheet review, and one call where the Audit & In order to support our opinion that there were no significant risks Risk Committee chairman provided her perspectives and addressed of material misstatement in the remaining components not subject queries raised by local audit teams.
to detailed audit procedures, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical review procedures at a divisional level.
The group audit team participated in every audit close meeting of full The Group engagement team based at the head office also performed scope entities, reviewed the component auditor work papers and central procedures on post-employment obligations, derivative discussed the detailed findings of the audit with the component team.
financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation and goodwill and The parent company is located in Redditch and audited directly by the intangible asset impairment assessments.
The Company was also group audit team.
subject to a full scope audit.
The Group engagement team visited 23 locations based on significance Coverage and or risk characteristics, as well as on a rotational basis to ensure coverage across the Group.
We follow a programme of planned visits As set out in the chart below we performed audit work on site at that has been designed so that senior members of the audit team will locations which together contributed 86% of Group revenue.
continue to visit new sites as well as returning to the largest and most complex sites on a rotational basis or when our ongoing risk 1 Full audit scope assessment identifies such a need.
44% 3 The Group engagement team had on-going communication with 2 Specified audit procedures component audit teams throughout the year.
Senior members of the 42% Group audit team were in contact, at each stage of the audit, with all 3 Review at group level component teams including holding global planning and fraud risk 14% Revenue 1 assessment calls on a group, divisional and reporting unit basis which provided an opportunity for component teams to discuss the detailed 2 instructions issued by the group audit team and escalate any findings during the year.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit & Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
106 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Responsibilities of directors In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements strategic report or the directors report.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the Matters on which we are required to report by exception preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Adequacy of explanations received and We have nothing to accounting records report in respect of In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are these matters.
assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue required to report to you if, in our opinion: as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the we have not received all the information Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company and explanations we require for our audit: or or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the the parent company financial statements financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, are not in agreement with the accounting whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that records and returns.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Directors remuneration We have nothing to ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also report in respect of Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered required to report if in our opinion certain these matters.
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be disclosures of directors remuneration have expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the not been made or the part of the directors basis of these financial statements.
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial and returns.
statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters Auditor tenure Use of our report Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016 to This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the companys members those matters we are required to state to them firm is 2 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent 31 December 2017. permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the other than the company and the companys members as a body, for Audit & Risk Committee our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Ian Waller Senior statutory auditor the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Statutory Auditor is consistent with the financial statements: and London, UK the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in 26 February 2018 accordance with applicable legal requirements.
