94 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Melrose Industries plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 29 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 8 to the company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Carrying value of goodwill and other non-current assets in the Energy Segment: and Classification of non-underlying items Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 12.5 million which was determined on the basis of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed on 11 components and the head office function, and specified audit procedures over certain balances were performed on 4 components.
In total our scope represented 77% of Group revenue, 83% of Group operating profit and 95% of Group net assets.
Significant changes in our approach Following the acquisition of the Nortek group in August 2016, this is the first full year of ownership.
As such we have revised our audit scoping, materiality basis and consideration of the risks most specific to the current group.
In particular, our basis of materiality in the prior year considered revenue, underlying profit before tax and net assets of the enlarged Group, whereas in the current year our basis of materiality is focused on underlying profit before tax.
Our prior year audit report also discussed the risks relating to the acquisition of the Nortek business, focused on the valuation of intangible assets and the fair value of provisions.
The acquisition completed in 2016 and is therefore not considered to be a key audit matter in 2017.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 95 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it to report, add or draw appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material attention to in respect uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from of these matters.
the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge to report, add or draw we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment attention to in respect of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have of these matters.
anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: t he disclosures on pages 44 to 49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: t he directors confirmation on page 42 to 43 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or t he directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our prior year audit report discussed the risks relating to the acquisition of the Nortek business, focused on the valuation of intangible assets and the fair value of provisions.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 96 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Carrying value of goodwill and other non-current assets The carrying value of goodwill and other non-current We assessed the design and implementation of Based on our detailed audit assets in the Energy group of cash-generating units relevant controls around managements preparation procedures performed, the Energy group as at 31 December 2017 is of the impairment models.
we determined that the comprised of goodwill of 122 million, other intangible assumptions applied in the We assessed managements impairment paper, assets of 62.5 million and property, plant and impairment model were within underlying analysis, supporting financial model and equipment of 69.8 million.
an acceptable range, that the challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions overall position adopted was Management perform an impairment review for which underpin managements forecasts.
Specifically, reasonable and the disclosures all goodwill balances on an annual basis and for our work included, but was not limited to: are appropriate.
other assets whenever an indication of impairment E valuating the model applied by management in is identified.
calculating the fair value less cost to sell recoverable As a result of the continued market downturn and amount, specifically evaluated the appropriateness deferral of generator orders in the second half of the of the inclusion of the restructuring costs and year, an impairment trigger was identified for the Energy benefits in the estimation of fair value: group.
Management determined the recoverable E valuating forecast revenue and operating margins amount for the Energy Group was 300 million, which with reference to the recent and historical trading resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of 95.4 million performance of the Energy group, as well as the related to Goodwill and 18.2 million relating to current contractual arrangements and external property, plant and equipment, in addition to a market data: 31.1 million charge for the write down of assets A ssessing the forecast restructuring costs and in Brush China.
impact on future cash flows: B enchmarking long-term growth rates to applicable IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires that the macro-economic and market data: recoverable amount of an asset is measured as the E ngaging our internal valuation specialists to higher of its Value in Use VIU or its fair value less challenge the discount rate applied, by obtaining costs to sell FV.
Management has prepared a model the underlying data used in the calculation and to calculate the recoverable amount, in this instance benchmarking it against market data and FV being the higher valuation.
The determination of comparable organisations, and by evaluating the the fair value of the Energy business is a judgemental underlying process used to determine the risk process which requires estimates concerning the adjusted cash flow projections: forecast future cash flows, associated growth and V alidating the integrity of the impairment models discount rates.
Further, the valuation includes the through testing of the mathematical accuracy and impact of restructuring costs on the basis that a market verifying the application of the input assumptions.
participant would perform a similar restructure.
The inclusion of restructuring costs, forecasting of future We performed sensitivity analysis and have challenged cash flows and associated growth and discount rates management on the key assumptions such as is a judgemental process.
forecasted revenues, operating margins, discount rate and long-term growth rate which would either The key judgements and estimates and impairment individually or collectively impact the impairment accounting policy are described in more detail in the charge whilst also considering the likelihood of audit committee report and in notes 2, 3 and 11 to such movements.
We reviewed the disclosures in note 11 in relation to the sensitivities reflecting the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and other non-current assets and also in note 3 in relation to the key sources of estimation uncertainty for the Energy business.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 97 Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Classification of non-underlying items The presentation and consistency of costs and We evaluated the appropriateness of the inclusion We consider the disclosure income within non-underlying items is a key determinant of items, both individually and in aggregate, within of non-underlying items to in the assessment of the quality of the Groups non-underlying results.
We assessed the consistency be in line with the Groups underlying earnings.
of items included year on year and the application of accounting policies and managements accounting policy, challenging the that the presentation of There is no definition of non-underlying items within nature of these items and ensuring adherence non-underlying items is IFRS and therefore the Group continues to classify one to IFRS requirements, ESMA guidance and latest consistent between the off costs or income in accordance with its accounting FRC guidance.
policy on non-underlying items as set out in note 2.
A sample of non-underlying items, including all material In the Groups reported results significant adjustments items, were agreed to source documentation and have been made to the statutory operating loss of evaluated by the component and Group audit teams as 6.9m to derive underlying operating profit of 278.4m.
to their nature in order to assess whether they are in line Explanations of each adjustment are set out in note 6 with the Groups accounting policy, and also to assess to the financial statements.
consistency of non-underlying items between periods in the financial statements.
As such, a risk of material misstatement exists in respect of the classification of items recorded as We also assessed whether the disclosures within non-underlying.
We note that underlying profit the financial statements provide sufficient detail for before tax is the main measure used by management the reader to understand the nature of these items in monitoring the Groups performance and in and how non-underlying results are reconciled to communication to shareholders.
There is a risk that items may be classified as nonunderlying which are underlying or recurring items and that therefore the reported underlying earnings are distorted, whether due to manipulation or error.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important for the comparability of year on year reporting.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 12.5 million 2016: 11 million 6.25 million 2016: 5.5 million Basis for determining materiality 5% of underlying profit before tax which is 50% of Group materiality.
reconciled to the loss before tax in Note 6 to the financial statements.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Underlying profit before tax is a key measure Materiality for the parent company financial used by management in monitoring the statements has been capped at 50% of Group Groups performance and in communication materiality.
This is with reference to the net asset to shareholders.
This approach differs from position of the parent company when compared the prior year where we considered a range of to the net asset position of the Group.
benchmarks, including revenue, underlying profit and net assets, due to the impact of the timing of the acquisition of Nortek Inc. and the resulting focus on the balance sheet.
Our determined materiality for the current year is equivalent to 0.7% of net assets 2016: 0.5%.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 98 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Group materiality 12.5m Upper range of component materiality 6.25m Underlying profit before tax 257.7m Group materiality 12.5m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.5m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 500,000 2016: 250,000 for the group and 250,000 2016: 125,000 for the parent company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is organised into an Energy division and three Nortek divisions.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on audit work at 15 components 2016: 17, of which 4 relate to components which form part of the Energy division, 7 relate to Air Management, 2 relate to Security & Smart Technology and 2 relate to the Ergonomics division.
The change in the number of components reflects the reorganisation of the Nortek business since acquisition by Melrose and our risk assessment in the current year.
The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and on the materiality of the Groups business operations at these locations.
Revenue Operating profit Net assets Full audit scope 73% Full audit scope 76% Full audit scope 95% Specified audit Specified audit Specified audit procedures procedures 7% procedures 0% 4% Review at Review at Review at group level 23% group level 17% group level 5% In 2016 our combined full audit scope and specified audit procedures represented 82% of Group revenue, 86% of Group operating profit and 92% of Group net assets.
Energy division In respect of the Energy division, all 4 components were subject to a full audit 2016: 4.
These 4 components accounted for 80% of the Energy divisions revenue and 76% of the Energy divisions underlying operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
The work performed at these 4 components together with the work performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 77% of the Energy division net assets.
Our work at the 4 components forming part of the Energy division was principally performed to levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged between 0.4 million and 1.1 million.
In 2016, these 4 components accounted for 81% of the revenue and 79% of the underlying operating profit and divisional costs before central costs of the Energy division.
Nortek group For the Nortek group, 7 components were subject to a full audit 2016: 8 components and 4 were subject to specified audit procedures 2016: 5 components on certain balances that represent a risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
These 11 components subject to full audit and specified audit procedures accounted for 76% of revenue and 78% of underlying operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
The work performed at these components together with the work performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 78% of the net assets of the Nortek group at 31 December 2017.
Our work and audit procedures at the Nortek components were performed at levels of materiality which were lower than group materiality, determined by reference to the relative scale of the business concerned, and ranged between 6.25 million and 5 million 2016: between 2.8 million and 3.9 million.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 99 Involvement in the work of component auditors and work performed at group level The senior statutory auditor or other senior members of the Group audit team visited 7 of the largest components for the audit 2016: 8.
The senior statutory auditor also held close meetings which covered all businesses.
Where we do not visit a component within our Group audit scope, we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The parent company was audited directly by the group audit team.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 100 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors in 2003 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment was subsequently ratified at the annual general meeting of the Company.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Stephen Griggs FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 20 February 2018 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
