Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc Basis for opinion REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE We conducted our audit in accordance with FINANCIALSTATEMENTS International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK Opinion and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for In our opinion: the audit of the financial statements section of our G4S plcs Group financial statements and parent report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have company financial statements the financial obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis statements give a true and fair view of the state for our opinion.
of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and Independence cash flows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the Group in accordance the Group financial statements have been properly with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our prepared in accordance with International Financial audit of the financial statements in the UK, which Reporting Standard IFRSs as adopted by the includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to European Union: listed public interest entities and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these the parent company financial statements have been requirements.
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and Standard were not provided to the Group or to the applicable law : and parent company.
the financial statements have been prepared in Other than those disclosed in note 10 to the financial accordance with the requirements of the Companies statements, we have provided no non-audit services to Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial the Group or to the parent company in the period from statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Integrated Report and Accounts the Annual Our audit approach Report, which comprise: Context the consolidated statement of financial position at G4S is an integrated security company specialising in the 31 December 2017: provision of security and related services to customers the parent company statement of financial position in around 90 countries, which in 2017 was organised at 31 December 2017: into seven geographical regions.
the consolidated income statement for the year Overview then ended: Materiality the consolidated statement of comprehensive Overall Group materiality: 20m 2016: 15m, income for the year then ended: which represents approximately 5% of adjusted the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year profit before tax, being profit before tax after adding then ended: back certain items that are separately reported on the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the face of the consolidated income statement the year then ended: including specific items, restructuring costs and profit the parent company statement of changes in equity on disposal.
for the year then ended: and Overall parent company materiality: 15m 2016: the notes to the financial statements, which include 13.5m, which represents approximately 1% of net a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit scope Audit Committee.
Our audit included full scope audits of the Groups seven geographical regions.
The regional audits were supported by full scope audits at 73 country components with specified audit procedures performed at a further 16 country components.
Taken together, the components at which either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures were performed accounted for 76% of consolidated revenue, 78% of consolidated profit before tax and 73% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax.
120 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report Areas of focus As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of Onerous contract provisioning management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by Goodwill impairment management that represented a risk of material Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets misstatement due to fraud and the risk of fraud in Compliance with payroll laws and regulations revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries Income statement presentation and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating Control environment managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off The scope of our audit procedures to check proper cut-off of revenue and As part of designing our audit, we determined testing the occurrence and accuracy of revenue materiality and assessed the risks of material transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, unpredictability into our audit work each year.
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant Key audit matters accounting estimates that involved making assumptions Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors and considering future events that are inherently professional judgment, were of most significance in the uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and audit of the financial statements of the current period regulatory framework applicable to the Group and to and include the most significant assessed risks of the industry in which it operates and considered the risk material misstatement whether or not due to fraud of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable identified by the auditors, including those which had the laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the procedures at the Group and component levels to allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the respond to this risk, recognising that the risk of not efforts of the engagement team.
We have also set out detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher how we tailored our audit to address these specific than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for statements as a whole.
These matters, and any example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or comments we make on the results of our procedures through collusion.
thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our of non-compliance related to, but not limited to, opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate compliance with payroll, foreign ownership and tax laws opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list and regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited of all risks identified by our audit.
to, the review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of Internal Audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found payroll compliance and tax to be key audit matters and these are discussed further below.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 121 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Onerous contract provisioning Refer to Audit Committee report on page 85 Our global approach to testing complex contracts starts with an evaluation and to note 33 of the Group financial statements.
of managements process to identify and quantify onerous and at-risk contracts.
Management focuses on the top 25 contracts by region and on contracts with Certain of the Groups contracts are onerous margins of less than 3%.
We performed scanning analytics on contract margins and long-term in nature.
These contracts can be and investigated unusual or unexpected trends to check inclusion of all relevant complex and incorporate penalty and key contracts in managements assessment.
Our sampling of contracts focused performance indicator KPI clauses in the our testing on higher risk and larger contracts and enabled us to form an event of non-compliance.
The Group is independent view as to whether managements process had identified all therefore required to make operational and onerous and at-risk contracts.
financial assumptions to estimate future losses over periods that can extend beyond 20 years.
For each contract in our sample, we obtained and read the key contractual terms and tested that the revenue recognised in the period was in accordance Variability of contract penalties, underlying with the contractual terms and was supported by evidence of service delivery.
delivery costs and customer and subcontractor We read and understood the contract penalty clauses and evaluated the claims or disputes can put additional pressure completeness of penalties through discussions with contract managers and on margins and on future contract profitability, reading minutes of meetings between G4S and the customer, and giving rise to onerous contract provisions.
The prediction of future events over extended We assessed each of the key assumptions used in managements forecasts to periods contains inherent risk and the outcome identify and quantify onerous contract provisions.
Where possible, we obtained of customer and sub-contractor claims is third party evidence to corroborate managements assumptions and assessed uncertain and involves a high degree of the appropriateness of the Groups forecasts based on past performance.
Groups policy is to include the benefits of performance improvement plans The Groups onerous contract provisions at only where there is evidence of plans being achievable.
We critically challenged 31 December 2017 are 62m 2016: 69m these benefits based on observable benefits achieved to date and the extent and the income statement charge for onerous to which these plans are within the Groups direct control.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the obligation and checked that the rate appropriately reflected the risk in the underlying cash flows.
We also assessed the recoverability of dedicated contract assets where the contract was identified as onerous.
Having examined managements analysis, including accounting papers prepared to support key contract judgments and onerous contract provisions, our procedures focused on the Facilities Management and Care & Justice businesses in the UK and specifically on the Compass contract and on a legacy PFI contract which is long-term in nature.
Both contracts are sensitive to changes in assumptions and have given rise to changes in provisioning levels at year-end.
For these contracts, we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis and we have undertaken additional analysis on key assumptions to which managements provisioning judgments are more sensitive.
We also held discussions with in-house and external legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to evaluate contractual claims and disputes with customers and subcontractors.
We obtained and evaluated evidence to support decisions and rationale for provisions held or the decision not to record provisions, including correspondence with external legal counsel.
We also considered external information sources to assess and evaluate the alternate possible scenarios.
We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgments that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
We are satisfied with the Groups related disclosures of these onerous contracts in light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgments made.
122 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment Refer to Audit Committee report on page 85 We assessed the mathematical accuracy of managements cash flow model and and to note 18 of the Group financial statements.
agreed the underlying forecasts to board approved budgets and assessed how these budgets were compiled.
The Group has 1.9bn of goodwill at 31 December 2017 2016: 2.0bn.
With the support of our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth No impairment charge has been recorded rates and discount rates applied by management to third party information and in 2017 2016: 9m.
confirmed whether they fell within a reasonable range of external market data.
Where they did not, we applied our independent view of a more appropriate Management determines the recoverable rate to managements forecast.
amount of a cash generating unit CGU as the higher of value in use VIU or fair value We considered the reliability of managements forecasting for revenue, profit less cost of disposal FVLCD.
and cash conversion by comparing budgeted results to actual performance over a period of three years, which we considered appropriate.
Where we identified The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on significant shortfalls against budget in prior years, this informed our future cash flows and there is risk if these cash determination of sensitivities to apply as we formed our independent view flows do not meet the Groups expectations about reasonable downside scenarios.
that the assets will be impaired.
The impairment reviews performed by the Group contain a Where the recoverable amount has been assessed with reference to a valuation number of significant judgments and estimates multiple, we assessed the appropriateness of the multiple by comparison to including revenue growth, profit margins, cash recent business disposals and to other third party information, with the support conversion and long-term growth and discount of our valuations experts.
Changes in these assumptions can have a We challenged management as to the appropriateness of the level of aggregation significant impact on the headroom available in of each CGU and the independence of cash flows from other assets.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering historical performance, forecasting accuracy and modelled headroom to highlight the CGUs with either a lower headroom or which are more sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the valuation multiple implied by managements estimate.
For those CGUs with low headroom, we performed our own sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of changes in the assumptions on the available headroom.
We critically assessed managements forecast by comparing growth forecast to actual growth to date and to IMF projections.
The recoverable amounts of a number of CGUs including Brazil Secure Solutions, Risk Management and UK Cash Solutions were found to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and we satisfied ourselves that this risk was appropriately highlighted in the disclosures in note 18.
As a result of our work, we determined that it was appropriate that no impairment charge was recognised in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole and that adequate disclosure has been made.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 123 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets Refer to Audit Committee report on page 85 With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and to notes 13 and 34 of the Group financial and challenged managements judgments in respect of estimates of tax statements.
exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to a range of tax In understanding and evaluating managements judgments, we considered the risks during the normal course of business status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgmental including transaction related tax matters and positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments transfer pricing arrangements.
Where appropriate, we also read appropriate documentation to understand the legal positions reached.
From the evidence Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the the Group establishes provisions based on context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we managements judgment of the probable noted that the assumptions and judgments that are required to formulate amount of the future liability.
At 31 December the provisions mean that there is a broad range of possible outcomes.
2017, the Group has recognised provisions of 42m related to uncertain tax positions In respect of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we evaluated 2016: 37m.
managements assessment of how these assets will be realised and whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support their In addition, the Group has recognised 240m recognition.
We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 process by which they were prepared, ensuring consistency of cash flows 2016: 285m.
The recognition of deferred with those used for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing.
Based on tax assets involves judgment by management our procedures, future cash flow forecasts supported the recoverability of regarding the likelihood of the realisation of the deferred tax assets recognised.
The expectation that these assets will be realised is dependent on a number of We have reviewed the Groups impact assessment as a result of US tax reform, factors, including whether there will be sufficient deploying our US tax specialists.
We have discussed with management the key taxable profits in future periods to support judgments made in evaluating how the legislation applies to the Group and utilisation of these assets.
compared these judgments with our independent expectations based on our knowledge of the Groups tax affairs.
We have also verified the mathematical There have been a number of changes in tax accuracy of the deferred tax re-measurement calculations.
We are satisfied that law in 2017, especially in the US that have the Group has appropriately accounted for the impact of US tax reform in the resulted in a significant impact on the Groups context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
The most significant change has been the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was substantively enacted before 31 December 2017.
The Group has needed to consider the impact of this new tax law on both its current and deferred taxes.
Certain of the changes introduced by the Act are complex and there are number of areas of uncertainty relating to both the manner in which the law will apply and to the accounting in certain areas.
124 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Compliance with payroll laws and regulations Refer to Audit Committee report on page 85 We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel and held and to note 33 of the Group financial statements.
discussions with the Groups external legal advisors to assess the probable outcomes in relation to ongoing claims and exposures in countries and areas The Group employs over 570,000 employees where legal requirements are open to interpretation.
There are a number of ongoing employee and regulatory claims in We evaluated and challenged managements judgments in order to assess the relation to the interpretation and potential risks adequacy of the Groups provisions and disclosures.
In understanding and relative to the application of local payroll laws evaluating managements judgments, we considered the status and basis of and regulations in a number of countries.
employee and regulatory claims, settlement history and the views of internal and external legal counsel regarding the interpretation and application of local Interpreting and complying with payroll laws payroll laws and regulations.
Where appropriate, we also read relevant and regulations is complex.
There is inherent documentation and correspondence to understand the legal positions reached.
judgment associated both with assessing and quantifying probable outcomes in relation to From the evidence obtained, we are satisfied with the Groups provisioning ongoing claims and with determining any decisions at 31 December 2017 in the context of the Group financial exposure and the need for provision in areas statements taken as a whole and with the adequacy of the contingent liability where legal requirements are open to disclosures given the status, materiality and likely outcome of employee and interpretation.
In addition, possible outcomes regulatory claims and exposures in countries and areas where legal need to be considered for disclosure as requirements are open to interpretation.
Unexpected adverse outcomes could materially impact the Groups financial performance and position.
Income statement presentation Refer to Audit Committee report on page 85 and We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate to note 3 b of the Group financial statements.
The Group has historically reported specific and We considered whether the designation of individual items as specific was other items including restructuring costs which consistent with the Groups accounting policy and treatment in prior years.
are disclosed separately on the face of the Furthermore, we considered whether amounts included as specific items related income statement and which are excluded from to current year trading and might be more appropriately reflected in the managements reporting of the underlying underlying results.
Consistent with the We considered whether the Group has taken a balanced approach to this area, Groups definition of profit before interest, tax checking that exceptional one-off items of income are treated consistently with and amortisation Adjusted PBITA, the one-off items of cost.
following items have continued to be disclosed We tested managements process for identifying and tracking the current year separately on the face of the income statement reversal of any prior year specific items, or utilisation of or adjustment to related in 2017: net specific items 34m 2016: 13m : provisions, to identify whether these have been appropriately presented in the restructuring costs 20m 2016: 12m : and current year income statement.
net profit on disposal and closure of subsidiaries Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classification 74m 2016: 7m.
of these items were consistent year-on-year and with the Groups policies.
The treatment of specific and other separately disclosed items is explained in the Group accounting policy in note 3 b.
We focused on this area because the classification of items as specific or separate disclosure of items of income or expenditure on the face of the income statement requires judgment and because certain of these items are excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration in line with the Groups remuneration policy.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-onyear reporting in the Annual Report.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 125 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Control environment The geographical span and decentralised In recognition of the Groups scale and decentralised structure and aligning to structure of the Group, coupled with the the Groups regional management structure, we continued to deploy teams in current disparate systems landscape and each of the Groups regions to lead our interactions with regional management, evolving control environment, means that there to coordinate the audit work performed at a country component level and to is an increased risk of errors remaining audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
undetected and aggregating to cause a material Given that the operation and formalisation of MFC controls are at different misstatement to the Group financial statements.
levels of maturity across the organisation, we did not seek to test or rely on Progress has been made by the Group in 2017 these controls for our 2017 audit.
We therefore instructed our component to strengthen the controls framework through teams not to rely on financial controls at the local business level but to perform the embedding of the Minimum Financial a substantive audit focused on transaction testing and on the integrity of the Controls MFC framework.
However, as the year-end balance sheet.
framework is still in its early stages, the operation With the support of our regional teams, we determined the entities to be and formalisation of these controls is at different included in our Group audit scope based on those locations with significant risk levels of maturity across the organisation.
and those which contribute a significant amount to material line items in the Group financial statements.
We applied a reduction to our overall materiality to set a performance materiality benchmark that we used to determine the nature, timing and extent of our detailed audit procedures.
Our performance materiality benchmark for the Group audit of 12.5m reflects the Groups evolving control environment, the risk of multiple misstatements resulting in a material misstatement and the history of past audit adjustments.
Wherever we identified audit adjustments or control matters which could be pervasive across the Group, we instructed our regional and country component teams to assess whether similar errors had arisen elsewhere.
While we did identify audit differences across the Group, management corrected the more significant items meaning that the uncorrected items reported to the Audit Committee were considered to be immaterial for adjustment, both individually and in aggregate.
126 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which they operate.
In 2017, the Group was structured into seven geographical regions being Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, Middle East & India, North America and the UK & Ireland UK&I.
Corporate head office entities are managed at a Group level.
Each geographical region regional component is an aggregation of a number of country-based components along with the Groups interests in joint ventures together the country components.
Each geographical region has a separate management team which coordinates the businesses within that region.
The Groups accounting processes are structured around a local finance function in each of the country components.
In addition, finance shared service centres in the UK, North America and India support certain of the Groups businesses.
The country components report to the regions and to the Group through an integrated consolidation system.
In performing our audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the regional components.
We therefore deployed regional component audit teams in each of the seven regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed on country components and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
In addition to the seven regional components, specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group consolidation, head office entities and areas of judgment including taxation, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, treasury and post-retirement benefits were directly led by the Group audit team.
Recognising that not every country component in each regional component is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained in aggregate by our regional component teams by reference to country components at which audit work had been undertaken.
Beneath the regional component layer, the Group financial statements are an aggregation of approximately 700 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a country component.
We identified 73 country component units that, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further 16 country component units to give appropriate coverage of all material balances.
Where the work was performed by regional and country component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components.
As a result, six of the seven regions were visited by senior members of the Group audit team as a supplement to the regular dialogue between our Group and regional teams and the issuance of instructions to direct their work.
Regional teams visited a further 10 country components performing oversight procedures under our instruction.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our Group and our regional component audit teams involvement included regular dialogue with our country component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation in certain component audit clearance meetings for the more significant country components.
Taken together, the components and functions where we performed either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures accounted for 76% of consolidated revenue, 78% of consolidated profit before tax and 73% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the regional and Group levels, including disaggregated analytical review procedures and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covered a significant portion of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 127 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 20m 2016: 15m.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax, being profit 1% of net assets.
before tax after adding back certain items that are separately reported on the face of the consolidated income statement including specific items, restructuring costs and profit on disposal.
Rationale for The Groups principal measure of earnings is profit The parent company holds the benchmark applied before interest, tax and amortisation adjusted for a Groups investments and performs number of items of income and expenditure treasury functions on behalf of the Adjusted PBITA.
Therefore, the entity is not in measure as it believes that it reflects the underlying itself profit-oriented.
The strength of performance of the Group.
We took this measure the balance sheet is the key measure into account in determining our materiality, except of financial health that is important that we did not adjust profit before tax to add to shareholders since the primary back amortisation of acquisition-related intangible concern for the parent company assets and finance income and expense as in our is the payment of dividends and view these are recurring items which do not servicing of debt.
introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group audit materiality.
The range of overall materiality allocated to each regional component was between 5m and 15m and by each region to each country component was between 0.01m and 14m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality level that was also less than our overall Group audit materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1m Group audit 2016: 1m and 750,000 parent company audit 2016: 675,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial or to draw attention to.
However, statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to because not all future events or adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial conditions can be predicted, this statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going the Groups and parent companys concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of ability to continue as a going concern.
approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
128 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the corporate governance report about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the corporate governance report with respect to the parent companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 91 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and The directors explanation on page 92 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of: making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 119, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report on page 85 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 129 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities set out on page 119, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
130 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Financial report OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 4 June 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 8 March 2018 Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 131
