Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Key audit matters: our assessment of risks We have audited the financial statements of Morgan Advanced Materials of material misstatement plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, of comprehensive income, Consolidated and company balance sheets, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and Consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, Consolidated include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement statement of cash flows, and the related notes, including the accounting whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had policies in note 1. the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We In our opinion: summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and by the European Union: consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared a separate opinion on these matters.
in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Tax provisioning 23.0 million 2016: 16.6 million the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, pages 118 to 119 and 125 to requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 126 accounting policy note and financial disclosures.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The risk Basis for opinion Subjective estimate We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Accounting for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures given that the group described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained operates in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
We were appointed as auditor by the directors on 4 October 2001.
Our response Our procedures included: The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 17 financial years Our tax expertise ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK Use of our own tax specialists to assess the groups tax positions, its ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard challenge the assumptions used to determine the level of tax provisions were provided.
using our knowledge and experiences of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts: and Assessing transparency Assessing whether the Groups tax disclosures are appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
94 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our results The risk We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable.
Subjective valuation Small changes in the assumptions and estimates used to value the Environmental and other provisions and contingent liabilities UK pension obligation before deducting scheme assets would have a 5.0 million 2016: 5.6 million significant effect on the Groups and parent companys net pension deficit.
Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, pages 151 and 152 accounting policy note and financial disclosures.
Our response Our procedures included: Benchmarking assumptions Subjective estimate Challenging, with the support of our own actuarial specialists, the key The amounts involved are potentially significant, and the application of assumptions applied, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality accounting standards to determine the amount, if any, to be provided life expectancy against externally derived data: and as a liability is inherently subjective.
Assessing transparency Our response our procedures included: Considering the adequacy of the Groups and parent companys Enquiry of lawyers and experts disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
On all significant legal cases, assessment of correspondence with the Groups external counsel accompanied by formal confirmations from that Our results counsel.
We assessed the extent to which the Groups judgements as to We found the valuation of the pension obligation to be acceptable.
whether provisions should be recorded and estimates of the amounts are a balanced assessment of the latest available information and the accuracy We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of acquired and reliability of the sources of that information.
However, following the detailed impairment review performed in the prior year and considering We challenged judgements made in respect of environmental performance of the GBU during 2017, we have not assessed this as one contingencies through discussions with the environmental experts engaged of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is by the Group.
not separately identified in our report this year.
Likewise, we continue to perform procedures over the presentation of specific adjusting items.
Assessing transparency However, following an assessment of the nature of items included in this Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about provisions and contingent category for 2017, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant liabilities and the treatment of movements on provisions in the income risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified statement for the year were appropriate.
As a result of these changes, the audit procedures over the valuation of the UK Defined Benefit pension obligation increased Our results: We found the liabilities recognised, and the contingent liability in relative significance to our overall audit approach.
disclosures made, to be acceptable.
UK Defined Benefit pension obligation Group: 593.7 million: 2016: 588.7 million.
Parent Company: 194.6 million: 2016: 194.4 million Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, pages 140 to 149 accounting policy note and financial disclosures.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 95 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc continued The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following Our application of materiality and an overview percentages of the Groups results: of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set Group Group at 3.5 million 2016: 3.5 million, determined with reference to a Number of Group profit total benchmark of group profit before tax, normalised to exclude this years Components revenue before tax assets specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 6, of which it represents 3.9% Audits for 2016: 3.9%.
Group reporting Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was purposes 25 55% 53% 65% set at 3.325 million 2016: 3.5 million, determined with reference Specific risk to a benchmark of Company total assets and chosen to be lower than focused audit materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole.
Total 36 79% 74% 82% We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected Total 2016 37 81% 80% 86% identified misstatements exceeding 0.175 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The remaining 21% of total group revenue, 26% of Group profit before tax and 18% of total group assets is represented by 79 of reporting Of the Groups 115 2016: 110 reporting components, we subjected components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of 25 2016: 26 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 11 2016: 11 any of total group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
to specified risk-focused audit procedures, including over revenue, For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated inventories, trade and other receivables, employee benefit obligations, group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant provisions and taxation.
The latter were not individually financially risks of material misstatement within these.
significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1 million to 2 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 35 of the 36 components 2016: 36 of the 37 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The Group team visited 1 2016: 4 component locations in the USA 2016: UK, USA, Italy and Brazil to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and all of the other locations that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our audit of the parent company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was all performed at the Companys head office in Windsor, UK.
96 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use the directors confirmation within the Viability statement that they have of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use including those that would threaten its business model, future of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of performance, solvency and liquidity: approval of the financial statements: or the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 40 they are being managed and mitigated: and is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done We have nothing to report in these respects.
so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the 2.
We have nothing to report on the other information Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as in the Annual Report they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the assumptions.
Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability statement.
we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, We have nothing to report in this respect.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Corporate governance disclosures consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the We are required to report to you if: information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors not identified material misstatements in the other information.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and Strategic report and directors report provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Based solely on our work on the other information: Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated and the directors report: by us to the Audit Committee.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our the Companies Act 2006. review.
Directors remuneration report We have nothing to report in these respects.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 97 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc continued In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific We have nothing to report on the other matters on which area of environmental legislation, recognising the nature of the groups we are required to report by exception operations.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was in our opinion: limited to enquiry of directors and other management and inspection adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our from branches not visited by us: or procedures on the related financial statement items.
Further detail in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors respect of environmental legislation is set out in the key audit matter Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the disclosures in section 2 of this report.
accounting records and returns: or We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not and remained alert to any indicators of non-compliance throughout the made: or audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit we have not received all the information and explanations we require teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at a group level, with for our audit.
a request to report on any indicators of potential existence of noncompliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these We have nothing to report in these respects.
areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
Respective responsibilities As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of Directors responsibilities irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, or the override of internal controls.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on pages 92 to 93, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal 4.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of our responsibilities financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, Auditors responsibilities for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Chartered Accountants Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are 15 Canada Square considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably London be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the E14 5GL basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for 27 February 2018 one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
98 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Financial Statements Contents 100 Consolidated income statement 101 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 102 Consolidated balance sheet 103 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 104 Consolidated statement of cash flows 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 155 Company balance sheet 156 Company statement of changes in equity 157 Notes to the Company balance sheet 173 Group statistical information 174 Cautionary statement 175 Glossary of terms 176 Shareholder information Aerospace Seals and Bearings 1 Thermal Ceramics 4 Thermal and fire protection Fuel pumps Our Superwool and Kaowool T he seals and bearings we produce insulating papers protect aerospace for in aerospace fuel pumps are hard components against fire risks.
wearing and can be machined to high tolerance.
Molten Metal Systems 2 5 Technical Ceramics Investment casting aerospace parts Aerospace engines O ur crucibles and foundry products used in he non-ferrous investment O ur proprietary ceramic core materials, casting of aerospace components.
used in aerospace engine turbine blades, provide dimensional stability which reduces failure.
3 Electrical Carbon Starters and motors O ur carbon brushes are used in starters, alternators and fuel pump applications in aeroplanes.
2 4 3 1 1 5 Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 99
