Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cineworld Group plc 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International plc The Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the report to the Audit Committee.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company We were appointed as auditor by the directors on 23 August Statement of Financial Position, the Company Statement of 2004 prior to the Company becoming a public interest entity.
Changes in Equity and the related notes, including the The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the accounting policies in note 1 of the Group financial statements 11financial years ended 31 December 2017 as a public interest and note 26 of the Company financial statements: entity and 14 years in total.
We have fulfilled our ethical In our opinion: responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year were provided.
then ended: 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks the Group financial statements have been properly of material misstatement prepared in accordance with International Financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the the parent Company financial statements have been financial statements and include the most significant assessed properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect Framework: and on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion oftheIAS Regulation.
above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
74 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The risk Our response Potential impairment Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included evaluating the Groups key assumptions of property, plant The carrying value of property, and methodology used in the value in use calculations supporting and equipment, plant and equipment balances the carrying value of the properly, plant and equipment.
inrelation to an at an individual cinema level Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used, in particular individual site may not be recoverable those relating to forecast revenue growth and profit margins, inIsrael.
through future cash flows as based on our existing knowledge of the business.
national and local factors, such Risk vs 2016 as movie slates or increased Historical comparisons: Challenging growth assumptions and Refer to page 44 competition, can materially cash flow projections by comparing to recent historical trading Audit Committee affect site performance.
Assessing the Groups forecasting process through Report, page 84 comparison of previous forecasts to actual results and considering One particular cinema in Israel accounting policy whether the forecasts used in the most recent impairment tests is in a developing market that and page 101 appropriately take into account actual performance during 2017. is highly sensitive to external financial social and political conditions.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions disclosures.
As such, its low valuation to internally and externally derived data in relation to key inputs headroom presents a risk that such as projected economic growth rates, cost inflation and its carrying value will not be discount rates.
supported by the continuing Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on growth operations.
Impairment testing valuations Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups are based upon highly disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment judgmental input assumptions.
assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks The key sensitivities in the inherent in the valuation of property, plant and equipment.
calculation are the difficulties in accurately predicting site Our results performance, some of We found the Groups assessment of potential impairment of which are due to external property, plant and equipment, in relation to the specific cinema uncontrollable factors.
In site in Israel to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
particular, the valuation of the site in Israel is materially sensitive to future growth assumptions for revenue.
Parent Company Low risk, high value Our procedures included: financial statements: The carrying amount of the Tests of detail: Comparing a sample of the investment and Valuation of Companys investments in intercompany receivables carrying value to the net assets of investments 901.1m subsidiaries held at cost less the investment to identify whether the net asset values of 2016: 741.4m and impairment and intercompany the subsidiaries, being an approximation of their minimum recoverability of receivables represent 99% of recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount.
intercompany the Companys total assets.
receivables 363.8m Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by We do not consider the 2016: 343.2m.
the subsidiary audit teams, where possible, on that sample of valuation of these investments those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on Risk vs 2016 and recovery of intercompany those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Where the subsidiary receivables to be at a high risk Refer to page 88 is not subject to component audit for Group reporting purposes of significant misstatement, or accounting policy or a statutory audit, we considered the results of analytical to be subject to a significant and page 127 procedures performed by the Group team, on those subsidiaries level of judgement.
However, financial profits and net assets.
due to their materiality in the disclosures.
context of the Company For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net financial statements as a whole, asset value of the subsidiary, our procedures included evaluating this is considered to be the key assumptions and methodology used in the value in use area which had the greatest calculations of the underlying Cash Generating Units.
effect on our overall audit Our sector experience: Challenging the growth assumptions and strategy and allocation of cash flow projections using our knowledge and historic experience resources in planning and of the profitability of the underlying trading Group.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions to internally and externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth rates and discount rates.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on growth rates and discount rates.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries and intercompany receivables to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
75 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued We continue to perform procedures over onerous lease 2016: 225,000, in addition to other identified misstatements provisions 3.6m 2016: 2.4m but have not assessed it as one that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
of the most significant risks in our current year audit as fewer The Group operates in nine countries across the UK and leased cinemas are trading at a loss than in the past and as Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel.
Of the Groups a result, the potential for a material error in this area has 10 2016: 10 reporting components, we subjected 4 2016: 4 diminished.
Therefore, it is not separately identified in our to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for Further, we have removed the key audit matter in relation the percentages illustrated opposite.
to the acquisition of the five Empire Cinemas in 2016 as the acquisition accounting has been substantially completed.
The The remaining 25% 2016: 25% of total Group revenue, 29% only acquisitions in the current period have been on a much 2016: 26% of the total profits and losses that made up Group smaller scale, such that the potential for a material error is profit before tax and 14% 2016: 15% of total Group assets is much smaller than it was last year.
For these residual components, we performed analytical procedures 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the over financial information at a component level to re-examine scope of our audit our assessment that there were no significant risks of material Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was misstatement within these.
set at 5.2m 2016: 4.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents The Group team instructed component auditors as to the 4.3% 2016: 4.6%.
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as Group team approved the following component materialities, a whole was set at 3.9m 2016: 3.4m, by reference to having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we across the components: would otherwise have determined by reference to net assets, and represents 0.5% of the Companys net assets 2016: 0.6%.
UK component 3.9m 2016: 3.4m Poland and Israel components 2.9m 2016: 2.5m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 260,000 Scoping and coverage Group revenue Group revenue 2017 2016 Group and 75% Group and 75% component audited component audited Out of scope 25% Out of scope 25% Total profits and losses that Total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax made up Group profit before tax 2017 2016 Group and 71% Group and 74% component audited component audited Out of scope 29% Out of scope 26% Group total assets Group total assets 2017 2016 Group and 86% Group and 85% component audited component audited Out of scope 14% Out of scope 15% 76 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Most of the audit work on 3 of the 4 audited components Strategic report and directors report 2016: 2 of the 4 components was performed by component Based solely on our work on the other information: auditors although our work over impairment of property, plant we have not identified material misstatements in the and equipment, impairment of goodwill, onerous lease provisions strategic report and the directors report: and taxation was performed centrally for the entire Group by in our opinion the information given in those reports for the the Group audit team.
The Group team performs the audit of financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and the parent Company and the Group consolidation.
In 2016 the Group team also performed the audit of the UK component.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Group team visited the component locations in Poland for the Poland component and certain processes relevant to the Directors remuneration report UK component performed in Poland, to assess the audit risk In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and strategy and gain an understanding of the local finance to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with environment.
Telephone conference meetings were held with the Companies Act 2006. each component auditor throughout the audit.
At the planning Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability stage these meetings focused on the audit approach, while Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial during the fieldwork and reporting stage they focused on the statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw findings and observations reported to the Group team.
attention to in relation to: Significant findings were discussed in more detail, and any further work deemed necessary by the Group team was then the directors confirmation within the viability statement on performed by the component auditor.
The Group team page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of inspected the audit files relating to each component audit.
the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 4 We have nothing to report on going concern solvency and liquidity: We are required to report to you if: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and we have anything material to add or draw attention to in explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial the directors explanation in the viability statement of how statements on the use of the going concern basis of they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast period they have done so and why they considered that significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be approval of the financial statements: or able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on fall due over the period of their assessment, including any page 34 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability 5 We have nothing to report on the other information statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information Corporate governance disclosures presented in the Annual Report together with the financial We are required to report to you if: statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does we have identified material inconsistencies between the not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not knowledge we acquired during our financial statements express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, audit and the directors statement that they consider any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Our responsibility is to read the other information and, the information necessary for shareholders to assess the in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial Groups position and performance, business model and statements audit work, the information therein is materially strategy: or misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not the section of the annual report describing the work of the identified material misstatements in the other information.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
77 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which Irregularities ability to detect we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the you if, in our opinion: financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as adequate accounting records have not been kept by the required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Groups Companys regulatory and legal correspondence.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly the parent Company financial statements and the part of affect the financial statements including financial reporting the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial law are not made: or statements items.
we have not received all the information and explanations We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout we require for our audit.
our team and remained alert to any indications of nonWe have nothing to report in these respects.
7 Respective responsibilities As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonDirectors responsibilities detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a override of internal controls.
true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements our responsibilities that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud This report is made solely to the Companys members, or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of that we might state to the Companys members those matters accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do realistic alternative but to do so.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Auditors responsibilities Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted Hugh Green in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material Chartered Accountants if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be 15 Canada Square expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken London on the basis of the financial statements.
E14 5GL A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the 15 March 2018 FRCs website at www.
