Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Greggs plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc the Company for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2017 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, balance sheets, statements of changes in equity, statements of cashflows and the related notes, including the accounting policies.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Company before 1984.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the 34 financial years ended 30 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 4m 2016: 3.9m Group accounts as a whole 5% 2016: 5% of normalised PBT Risks of material misstatement Group and Parent vs 2016 New: Event-driven Recoverability of property, plant and equipment Recurring risks Dilapidation provisions Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Greggs plc continued 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the accounts and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of In 2016 the Group announced a large-scale Our procedures included: property, plant investment programme in manufacturing and Personnel interviews: We obtained a detailed and equipment distribution operations.
The next phase of the understanding of the progress of this phase of the Group and Parent supply chain investment programme, including programme and the forecast business and financial Company the creation of centres of excellence, was impacts as at the period end: carrying amount announced in early 2017.
The consolidation of Methodology choice: We assessed the Groups of property, plant certain production processes may reduce the assumptions around useful economic lives of assets and equipment: useful economic life and recoverable amount of with reference to detailed plans for the programme: 319.2m: 2016: certain assets.
Where assets are considered Site visits: We visited a sample of affected supply sites 307.4m recoverable but will no longer be used once the to test that the data used in the Groups assessment programme progresses this may result in the need reflected the pattern of use and location of assets.
Refer to page 50 for accelerated depreciation.
Where the assets are As part of these visits we independently identified Audit Committee no longer considered recoverable an impairment affected assets and compared these with those report, pages should be recognised.
identified by the Group for impairment or accelerated 82-83 accounting depreciation: policy and pages Subjective estimate Test of detail: We critically assessed whether all 93-94 financial Identifying the affected assets requires fixed assets relevant assets had been considered, inspected the disclosures information which reflects the current location and fixed asset register for assets which may become use of supply chain assets.
There is a risk that all obsolete and compared these with those assets already relevant assets may not be appropriately captured provided against: or that assets may be provided against which Assessing application: We challenged the classification continue to be used elsewhere in the Group.
of items as exceptional charges for the period and tested that items presented as exceptional were Determining the period over which to accelerate incurred as a result of the programme with reference to the depreciation of assets depends on when the internal plans and communications: and assets are expected to be used by the Group.
Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy This is a judgemental assessment of future and accuracy of the related disclosures in the accounts activities and there is a risk that assets may be and compliance of the annual report with the rules for depreciated over the incorrect period.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the property, plant and equipment balance to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Accounts The risk Our response Retail property The Group leases the majority of its shops and has Our procedures included: provisions circa 1,600 shop leases at the end of the period.
Historical comparisons: We critically assessed the Group and Parent methodology applied to identify properties which Company Subjective estimate required dilapidation provisions and the dilapidations For the majority of shop leases the Group has reasonableness of estimated costs in the context of provisions 3.0 obligations to restore shops to a certain condition Greggs historic experience: million: 2016: 3.2 at the end of the lease and provisions may be Test of detail: We inspected a sample of the Groups million required for the costs of doing so.
Determining lease agreements to compare the relevant clauses with provisions involves estimation of the costs the Groups approach to provisioning: Refer to pages 50-51 anticipated to make good any alterations to Comparisons: We tested whether dilapidation Audit Committee properties and consideration of obligations obligations had been provided for by selecting a Report, pages 81 present in lease agreements.
Both of these sample, concentrating on known and planned closures and 85 accounting factors can vary significantly between shops and, or resites of shops: policy and page whilst the majority of leases contain dilapidation Our sector experience: We considered specific issues 103 financial clauses, the Group does not always incur costs on certain Group properties, such as the shops which disclosures as a consequence.
previously had in-store bakeries, and critically assessed the impact of these on the likely level of dilapidation We continue to perform procedures over onerous costs: and lease provisions.
However, following the Groups Assessing transparency: We also considered the exit from a number of leases, we have not assessed adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree the onerous lease aspect of the provision as one of of estimation involved in arriving at the provisions.
the most significant risks in our current period audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in Our results our report.
We found the Groups estimated dilapidations provisions to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over provisions in respect of restructuring costs.
However, as the Groups supply site investment programme has progressed into the next phase this risk has reduced.
We have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current period audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2016: 3.9 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude exceptional items as disclosed in Note 4 of the accounts of which it represents 5 per cent 2016: 5 per cent.
Materiality for the Parent Company accounts as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2016: 3.9 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Company profit before tax normalised to exclude exceptional items of which it represents 5 per cent 2016: 5 per cent.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 200,000 2016: 195,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information which covered 100 per cent 2016: 100 per cent of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
Profit before tax Materiality excluding exceptional items 4.0m 2016: 3.9m 81.8m 2016: 80.3m 4.0m Whole accounts materiality 2016: 3.9m Profit before tax The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group Group materiality as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
200k Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2016: 195k Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Greggs plc only continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement included in the accounts page 81 on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the accounts: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 45 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the annual report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the accounts.
Our opinion on the accounts does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our accounts audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the accounts or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: We have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial period is consistent with the accounts: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our accounts audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on pages 34-35 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our accounts audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Accounts 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the accounts including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the accounts.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the accounts.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the accounts.
In planning and performing our audit, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of Food Safety and Health and Safety, given the industry in which the Group operates.
We identified these areas through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from our sector experience.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations in core areas such as financial reporting and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that directly affect the accounts, being Food Safety and Health and Safety, as part of our procedures on the related accounts items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries of Directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mick Thompson Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House, 110 Quayside Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 27 February 2018 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75
