90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 30 September 2013.
We have audited the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc The period of total uninterrupted engagement to date is for the five the Company for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2017 which financial periods ended 30 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit cash flows, Company statement of financial position, Company statement services prohibited by that standard were provided.
of changes in equity and the related notes, including the accounting Overview policies in note 1.1.
Materiality: 14.5 million 2016: 14.5 million Group financial 5.4% 2016: 5.2% of In our opinion: statements as a whole Group profit before tax the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 December 2017 Coverage: and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: by full scope audit 82% 2016: 79% of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 1 procedures total profits and losses accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly Recurring risks Carrying value of tu prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS Resort Theme Parks 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and goodwill the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Revenue recognition tu requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Recoverability of parent tu Companys investment Basis for opinion in and inter-group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on balances with Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are subsidiaries described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is 1 Total profits and losses coverage is calculated by considering absolute profits and losses before consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
tax, after eliminating inter-group interest income and expense, foreign exchange movements on inter-group loans, and inter-group dividends.
91 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
The matters and results were addressed based on procedures solely undertaken for the purpose of forming our opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and are consequently incidental to that opinion.
We therefore do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Carrying value of Resort Theme Parks Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: goodwill A history of business combinations results in significant goodwill balances.
The Resort Extrapolating past forecasting accuracy: 209 million 2016: 202 million Theme Parks RTP Operating Group is assessing five years historical accuracy of the capital intensive and unlike the other Groups forecasting and building comparable Refer to pages 61 to 65 Audit Committee Operating Groups has not generated variations in forecasting accuracy into our Report and pages 114 to 116 accounting policy headroom via growth from new site ownmodels that were used to re-perform and financial disclosures.
As RTP has been impaired in the thevaluation: past and has a small amount of headroom Risk vs 2016: tu there is a risk that its goodwill will not be Historical accuracy: comparing expected supportable by its continuing operations.
changes in cash flows from activities such as newpromotions and customer experience The estimated recoverable amount is improvements and the planned cost base, against subjective due to the inherent uncertainty the past results of similar activities carried out by involved in forecasting future cash flows and the Group: determining the most appropriate rate to discount them.
Benchmarking assumptions: benchmarking Group earnings multiple and discount rates In particular, the recovery rate of the UK including the underlying assumptions used theme parks, especially Alton Towers, against market data, including publicly available following the accident on The Smiler ride in analysts reports and peer comparison using our 2015, is a materially sensitive assumption own valuation experts: supporting the RTP goodwill valuation.
Sensitivity analysis: assessing the reasonableness of managements sensitivity analysis, which included calculating the impact ofchanges in key assumptions, performing breakeven analysis of the earnings multiple, discount rates, forecast cash flows, and modelling the cash flows of a base case scenario: Comparing valuations: comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows across the Group to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of the future cash flows, discount rate and long term growth rate: and Assessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups sensitivity disclosures regarding the impairment testing adequately reflect the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of Resort Theme Parks goodwill to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC The risk Our response Revenue recognition Accurate recording: Our procedures included: Merlins revenues come from a number of 1,594 million 2016: 1,457 million different channels, locations and systems, Control design: testing of the general IT control sometimes featuring manual processes to match environment of the systems used to record Refer to pages 61 to 65 Audit Committee past purchases to redemptions or to transfer revenue and evaluating controls over the revenue Report and page 103 accounting policy.
process including their operating effectiveness: Risk vs 2016: tu The low value of individual transactions means Control operation: testing the design, individual errors would be insignificant, however implementation and operating effectiveness of they would be difficult to detect and the high manual controls supporting revenue recognition, volume of transactions mean systemic failure including reconciliations of till records to cash could lead to errors that aggregate into banked and to revenue journal entries in the material balances.
accounting records: Expectation vs outcome: forming an expectation for revenue by analysing total cash received per bank statements as adjusted for non-revenue transactions, sales taxes collected and balance sheet movements and comparing this expectation to revenue recognised: and Tests of detail: agreeing a sample of revenue transactions to bank statements or other supporting information.
Testing of deferred and accrued revenue balances through agreeing back to ticketing system records and re-computing any manual calculations.
Our results We found the recording of the revenue to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
The risk Our response Recoverability of the parent Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: Companys investment in and interThe carrying amount of the parent Companys group receivable balances with investment in and inter-group receivable Tests of detail: for the investment and subsidiaries balances from subsidiaries represents 99.8% inter-group balances where the carrying amount 2016: 100% of the parent Companys total exceeded the net asset value, comparing the 4,581 million 2016: 4,344 million assets.
Their recoverability does not lead to a carrying amount of the investment and interhigh risk of significant misstatement, nor is it group receivable balances with the expected Refer to pages 61 to 65 Audit Committee subject to significant judgement.
However, due value of the business based on the Groups Report and pages 145 to 149 accounting to their materiality in the context of the market capitalisation as adjusted by monetary policy and financial disclosures.
parent Company financial statements, this is assets and liabilities held by the parent Company.
considered to be the area that had the Risk vs 2016: tu greatest effect on our overall parent Our results Company audit.
We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in and inter-group receivable balances from subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of the Groups other non-current assets.
However, as we have concluded there are less significant judgements made and a low risk of misstatement, we have not assessed this area as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
93 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Pro t before tax Group materiality 271 million 2016: 277 million of our audit 14.5 million 2016: 14.5 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 14,500,000 2016: 14,500,000, determined with reference to a 14.5 million benchmark of profit before tax, of which it represents 5.4% 2016: 5.2%.
Whole financial statements materiality Materiality for the parent Company financial statements was set at 2016: 14.5 million 4,500,000 2016: 4,500,000 by reference to component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to total assets, and represents 0.1% of the parent Companys total assets 2016: 0.1%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 4.5 million Range of materiality at identified misstatements affecting profit exceeding 700,000 2016: components 4.5 million to 700,000 or otherwise exceeding 2,000,000 2016: 2,000,000, in 0.5 million 2016: 4.5 million addition to other audit misstatements that warranted reporting on to 0.45 million qualitative grounds.
Pro t before tax 0.7 million The scope of our work included the audit of 82% 2016: 79% of the total Group materiality Misstatements reported to the profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, 75% 2016: 74% Audit Committee 2016: 0.7 million of total Group revenue and 75% 2016: 70% of total Group property, plant and equipment.
This included the audit, for Group reporting purposes, of the financial information of certain components.
It also included procedures on finance costs and assets established on consolidation: the total of these balances were audited at Group level.
Revenue Total pro ts and losses Audits for Group reporting purposes, including those performed by the 14% 11% Group audit team, were performed at components in the following 14% 13% countries: Australia, China including Hong Kong, Denmark, Germany, 7% Italy, Japan, UK and USA.
The components for which we performed work 11% 8% 12% other than audits for Group reporting purposes were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work 86% 89% and provided further coverage over the Groups results of 7% 2016: 8% 2016: 86% 2016: 87% of total profits or losses that made up Group profit before tax.
We select these components on a rotational basis, setting a financial threshold on each of the Group profit before tax, Group revenue and Group property, 74% 79% plant and equipment and using our assessment of risk to select a sample 75% 82% of sites from those that meet at least one of these thresholds.
Property, plant and equipment The remaining 11% 2016: 13% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, 14% 2016: 14% of total Group revenue and 16% 16% 16% 2016: 16% of total Group property, plant and equipment were represented by a large number of smaller reporting components.
None of 9% these components individually represent more than 1.2% 2016: 1.8% of 14% any of the total profits or losses that made up Group profit before tax, 84% total Group revenue or total Group property, plant and equipment.
2016: 84% For the remaining components, analysis at an aggregated level was performed to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant 70% risks of material misstatement within these components.
75% Key: Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Speci ed risk-focused procedures 2017 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Speci ed risk-focused procedures 2016 Analysis at an aggregated Group level 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged Strategic Report and Directors Report from 500,000 to 4,500,000 2016: 450,000 to 4,500,000 having Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report regard to the mix of size and risk profile across components, and where and the Directors Report: applicable, giving consideration to the local statutory materiality set by the in our opinion, the information given in those reports for the financial component teams where this was lower.
year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with The Group audit team carried out audits for Group reporting purposes the Companies Act 2006. of the financial information of components covering 33% 2016: 34% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, Directors Remuneration Report including the audit of the parent Company.
The Group audit team also In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be undertook all audit procedures of certain total Group account balances as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies mentioned above, covering a further 4% 2016: 3% of the total profits Act 2006. and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer term viability Detailed audit and specified procedure instructions were sent to Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: areas required to be addressed by these audits, which included the the Directors confirmation within page 39 that they have carried out relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out the a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Group audit team visited key component locations in Germany and Japan.
solvency and liquidity: Additionally we performed inspection of the work covering the key audit the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining matters at all component audit teams performing audits for Group how they are being managed and mitigated: and reporting purposes.
Teleconferences were held with all component the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have auditors.
During these meetings, the Group team provided further input assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have to audit risk and strategy, and the findings reported to the Group audit done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and team were discussed in more detail and any further work required by the their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 4 We have nothing to report on going concern related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications We are required to report to you if: orassumptions.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1.1 to the financial statements on the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material We have nothing to report in this respect.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from Corporate Governance disclosures the date of approval of the financial statements: or We are required to report to you if: the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 88 is we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial We have nothing to report in these respects.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Annual Report and Accounts the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on us to the Audit Committee.
the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, our review.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
95 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which Irregularities ability to detect we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in sector experience and through discussion with the Directors and other our opinion: management as required by auditing standards.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the from branches not visited by us: or financial statements including financial reporting including related the parent Company financial statements and the part of the company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on with the accounting records and returns: or the related annual accounts items.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the we have not received all the information and explanations we require specific area of health and safety, recognising the nature of the Groups for our audit.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was We have nothing to report in these respects.
limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management.
7 Respective responsibilities We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team Directors responsibilities and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 89, the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal request to report on any indications of potential existence of noncontrol as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
due to fraud or error: assessing the Groups and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our Auditors responsibilities responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material Hugh Green misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for Senior Statutory Auditor one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may Chartered Accountants involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the Gateway House financial statements.
Tollgate Chandlers Ford A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs Southampton website at www.
