Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 75 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Opinion In our opinion: Dignity plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 29 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Dignity plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement for the 52 week period ended Balance sheet as at 29 December 2017 29 December 2017 Statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 52 week 29 December 2017 period ended 29 December 2017 Related notes C1 to C9 to the financial statements including a summary Consolidated balance sheet as at 29 December 2017 of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Consolidated statement of cash ows for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sucient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
76 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 32 to 36 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors conrmation set out on page 36 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 73 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 36 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Fraud Risk The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition, specically the risk of inappropriate management override of the amount of revenue recorded.
Fraud Risk Management Override of Internal Controls inherent in those areas where manual journals are posted at head oce as part of the financial statement close process.
Other Risk The risk of error in the carrying value of the intangible assets related to Trade Names or Goodwill where we have addressed the risks connected with the amortisation of Trade Names and potential impairment of Trade Names and Goodwill which arise following the Groups announcement in January 2018 of a change in strategy and positioning in order to protect market share.
Audit scope We performed an audit on the consolidated financial records of the group to the materiality and performance materiality described below.
Materiality Overall group materiality of 3.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 77 What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition Revenue 2017: 324.0 million, 2016: 313.6 million Given investor focus on the We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition: Based on our procedures we have groups revenue performance not identied any evidence of We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the recording we consider there to be a risk management override through of revenue: in relation to the manipulation inappropriate journal entries in We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised by central management of the respect of the amount of revenue with expectations based on past experience, managements forecasts amount of revenue recorded.
and, where possible, external market data in respect of the numbers Management reward and incentive of deaths in the period and obtained corroborative evidence to support schemes based on achieving profit divergences from our expectations: targets may also place pressure on management to manipulate We reconciled the aggregate revenue amounts extracted from the sales revenue recognition.
invoicing systems to revenue recorded in the general ledger and have traced material reconciling items that arose therefrom to supporting Therefore there is a risk that documentation: and central management may override controls to intentionally misstate We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts, applying revenue transactions through parameters designed to identify entries that were not in accordance inappropriate manual journal with our expectations.
This included analysing and selecting journals for entries.
testing which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer or being manually posted.
We veried the journals to originating Refer to the Accounting policies documentation to confirm that the entries were valid.
pages 86 and 87 : and Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 94 and 95.
The risk of fraud and management override We considered the risks inherent in We performed data analytics to identify journal entries that we believed Based on the results of the those areas where manual journals to be potentially unusual.
We obtained supporting evidence for each of procedures performed, including are posted at head oce as part those journals identied and veried the journals to originating journal entry testing, we have of the financial statement close documentation to confirm that the entries were valid: and not identied any evidence of process and in particular in respect management override through We have performed audit procedures in respect of each of the estimates of subjective areas which we inappropriate journal entries.
listed to identity evidence of management bias.
considered to be most susceptible to management override due to the degree of estimation involved.
These areas were considered to be the bad debt provision, dilapidations provision and uninvoiced cost accruals.
The risk of error in the carrying value of intangible assets related to trade names and goodwill related to the funeral services segment We have addressed the risks We have considered managements assessment that the useful life of That the change in the estimated connected with the amortisation Trade Names has moved from indefinite to nite, with a useful life of 35 useful life of Trade Names is of trade names and potential years.
We have corroborated that the assertions made by management appropriate and has been accurately impairment of trade names to factual events and or are consistent with the understanding of the reected and appropriately disclosed and goodwill related to the business we have built up through the course of our audit.
funeral services segment which In respect of the Groups impairment reviews of Trade Names and Goodwill: That the impairment reviews have arise following the groups been compiled on a reasonable basis, We understood the methodology applied by management in performing announcement in January that the conclusion that there is 2018 of a change in strategy its impairment test for the trade names and goodwill related to the no impairment to be recorded is funeral services division.
and positioning in order to reasonable and that the disclosures protect market share.
We calculated the degree to which the key inputs and assumptions made in this respect are appropriate.
The Groups trade names have would need to uctuate before an impairment was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring.
We performed our own a carrying value of 151.3 million 2016: 134.5 million and are sensitivities on the groups forecasts and determined whether adequate headroom remained.
We performed detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the The Groups goodwill has a carrying value of 226.1 million key inputs to the valuations, including: 2016: 215.9 million.
analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash ows are reliable based on past Refer to the Accounting policies page 88 : and Note 9 of the experience: Consolidated Financial Statements corroborating the discount rate used by benchmarking it against market pages 99 and 100. data and comparable organisations: and validating the growth rates have been appropriately adjusted to reect the change in Group strategy and positioning.
We assessed the disclosures in note 9 against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
78 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and performance materiality determine our audit scope.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
The group finance function operates from head oce and has common financial systems, processes and centralised controls covering all of its operations and individual locations.
The audit of the group is undertaken by one audit team and the group audit has been performed on the consolidated financial records to the materiality and performance materiality described below.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 3.6 million 2016: 3.7 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax is the most appropriate measure of the financial performance of the group on which to base audit materiality.
We determined materiality for our audit of the standalone parent company financial statements to be 4.6 million 2016: 4.4 million, which is 1% 2016: 1% of equity.
The materiality determined for the standalone parent company financial statements exceeds the Group materiality as it is determined on a different basis given the nature of the operations.
For the purposes of the audit of the group financial statements, our procedures, including those on balances in the parent company, are undertaken with reference to the group materiality and performance materiality set out in this report.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the group and parent companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.7 million 2016: 2.8 million for the group and 3.5 million 2016: 3.3 million for the parent company.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2016: 0.2 million for both the group and the parent company, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 74 and 130 to 132, including the Overview set out on pages 1 to 3, the Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 43, Governance set out pages 44 to 74 and Other Information set out on pages 130 to 132, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 79 We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 72 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 53 to 55 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 44 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identied material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
80 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2017 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sucient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identied during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specic assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and data protection.
We understood how the group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit and those responsible for legal and compliance procedures.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee and any correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their inuence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or inuence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs and controls that the group has established to address risks identied, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identied fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identied in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of group management, internal audit: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 81 Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 8 June 2017 to audit the financial statements for the 52 week period ending 29 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is four years, covering the periods ending 26 December 2014 to 29 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 14 March 2018 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dignity plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may dier from legislation in other jurisdictions.
