Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 118 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM Our Financials OUR Financials Group Independent Auditor's Report 120 Consolidated Income Statement 127 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 128 Consolidated Balance Sheet 129 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 130 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 132 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 119 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM INDEPENDENT Auditor's Report to the members of Ocado plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 3 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the 53 week period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Ocado Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 5.2 of the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that were identified in the current and prior year are: accounting for commercial income arrangements there is significant judgement as to the quantum and timing of income recognised from volume rebates and there is a risk that promotional or media campaigns may not be delivered at all or in the agreed timeframe: and capitalisation of internal development costs there is significant judgement in assessing if the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
In particular, we focus on the technical feasibility of projects, the probability of future economic benefits and whether assets are impaired.
The key audit matters that were identified in the current year are: accounting for Ocado Solutions contracts - the range of deliverables in these agreements is complex and requires judgement, particularly in respect of the timing of revenue recognition.
Changes to key The previous auditors report included two key audit matters that are not included as key audit matters in our audit report this year: audit matters from share-based payments and deferred tax asset recognition.
We concluded they were not key audit matters for the following reasons: the prior year for share-based payments, no new material schemes were introduced in the year and the charge for the year was consistent with the prior period 6.9m 2016: 7.1m : and as set out in note 2.8 to the financial statements, Ocado has an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 40.5m 2016: 45.8m.
Managements approach to recognition and the expected future levels of profitability was appropriately consistent with the prior year.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 120 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM Our Financials Summary of our audit approach Materiality We determined materiality to be 6m based on revenue, consistent with the approach adopted by the previous auditor.
Scoping The scope of our group audit includes all significant trading companies in the UK, whose results taken together account for over 97% of the groups revenue, profit after tax and net assets.
All entities are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work is completed by the group audit team.
We performed analytical procedures over the remaining trading entities, the groups captive insurance company in Malta and development operations in Poland and Spain.
The group audit team also audit the groups joint venture with Wm Morrisons Supermarkets Plc Morrisons.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement GOING CONCERN We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1.5 to the financial statements about whether they considered it We confirm that we have nothing appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their identification material to report, add or draw of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve attention to in respect of these months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we We confirm that we have nothing obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of material to report, add or draw the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything attention to in respect of these material to add or draw attention to in relation to: matters.
the disclosures on pages 40-41 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 39 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 39 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com 121 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM INDEPENDENT Auditor's Report to the members of Ocado plc Accounting for commercial income arrangements Key audit matter description The value recognised in relation to commercial income arrangements volume rebates, promotional allowances and media income is significant in relation to the results for the period with the judgements applied giving rise to a risk of potential fraud or error.
Volume rebates There is significant judgement as to the quantum and timing of income recognised from volume rebates in particular the specific contractual terms negotiated through the sourcing agreement with Waitrose referred to on page 114 in the Directors Report.
Waitrose has supplier agreements which span the Ocado period end and which are not typically settled for several months after the Ocado period end, as a result there is a judgement over the amount to recognise as income.
This has been identified as a Key Source of Estimation Uncertainty page 134.
Promotional allowances and media income The volume and quantum of arrangements and real time delivery increase the risk that campaigns may not be delivered at all or in the agreed timeframe.
Refer to page 66 Audit Committee statement and note 2.1 financial statement disclosures including the related Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty in note 1.4.
How the scope of our audit responded Our audit procedures included a range of tests as set out below: to the key audit matter Volume rebates Our audit procedures in relation to the Waitrose year end accrual included: meeting Waitrose management to assess the controls and processes in place over the tracking of rebate income: assessing Ocado Managements controls over their calculation of the year end rebate accrual which included obtaining a detailed analysis of Waitrose supplier agreements, their contractual terms and previous settlements: obtaining a confirmation directly from Waitrose of the information used by Management in their year-end estimate: testing the accuracy of the accrual and agreeing the inputs to supporting documentation: agreeing the terms of a sample of agreements to underlying contracts and then to the terms used in the calculation of the rebate accrual: testing a sample of invoices to Waitrose to confirm cash settlement: and analysing historic trends in the settlement of the Waitrose rebate accrual and using sensitivity analysis to assess whether the accrual was reasonable.
Promotional allowances and media income We focused our procedures on whether an agreement for the promotional or media income recognised existed, whether the relevant promotion or media advertising had taken place, and whether the value was recorded in the appropriate period.
Our testing procedures included: assessing the controls over the process for recognising such income including the requirement for an approved media plan or supplier agreement and detailed margin analysis on product categories highlighting unusual variances: holding meetings with the principal buyers to corroborate our understanding: agreeing a sample of media campaigns and promotions from the promotions and media systems to the underlying agreements: and circulating a sample of independent confirmations to suppliers.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we are satisfied that commercial income has been recognised appropriately and reflects the substance of the arrangements.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 122 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM Our Financials Capitalisation of internal development costs Key audit matter description Ocado invests significantly in developing the software it uses to operate its retail business, to increase capacity and efficiency of Customer Fulfilment Centres CFCs, and to enhance its Ocado Solutions technology and distribution capability.
This year Ocado has capitalised internal development costs of 42.7m 2016: 34.9m to intangible assets and 11.8m FY16: 10.1m to property, plant and equipment.
We identified this as a key audit matter due to the significant amounts invested and the potential for fraud or error as a result of the judgement involved in assessing whether the criteria for capitalisation under IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
We focused our audit procedures on the risks: that capitalised costs relate to projects that are not currently technically feasible or for which the probability of future economic benefits is not yet proven: of impairment of existing assets, where new technology supersedes previously capitalised projects or inappropriate amortisation rates are used: and of potential for fraud or error inherent in judgements over appropriate capitalisation.
Refer to page 66 Audit Committee statement, notes 3.1 and 3.2 to the financial statements and the disclosures in respect of Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty in note 1.4.
How the scope of our audit responded Our audit procedures included the following: to the key audit matter reviewing Managements controls over their process for capitalisation, which include detailed pre-approval papers setting out consideration of compliance with the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible assets.
We also reviewed controls over the process for assessing impairment, for example a half-yearly review of project status involving project managers and finance: for the most significant projects meeting with project managers responsible to gain an understanding of the project, and to inform our assessment as to the feasibility and economic benefits of individual projects: testing a sample of project additions in the year against the IAS 38 capitalisation criteria: performing a number of audit procedures on internal staff costs capitalised including substantive testing to timesheets, discussions with project managers on the quantum of hours and nature of work attributable to the project, reviewing rates per hour by reference to payroll data and the standard rate per hour of IT development and engineering staff: separately reviewing a sample of the most significant projects for indicators of impairment.
This included reviewing the profile of all project additions to assess whether any projects had been abandoned or put on hold and held discussions with project managers to challenge whether the assets are still in use: and performing a series of analytic tests on the costs capitalised to identify items that in our judgement appeared unusual, and obtaining explanations and supporting evidence from Management, for example challenging projects with limited or negative costs capitalised in the period.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we are satisfied that amounts capitalised appropriately reflect the requirements of IAS 38.
com 123 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM INDEPENDENT Auditor's Report to the members of Ocado plc Accounting for Ocado Solutions contracts Key audit matter description The introduction of Segmental Reporting during the year has placed greater emphasis on the 117.7m of revenue recognised in the Ocado Solutions business.
This includes revenue being recognised for logistics and distribution services as well as the delivery of hardware and software solutions.
There are currently a limited number of Ocado Solutions contracts therefore results may be materially impacted by the revenue recognition profile of these contracts.
The accounting for Ocado Solutions contracts, which generally have a range of deliverables, is complex and requires judgement, particularly as to the timing of revenue recognition.
Ocado Solution contracts can involve significant upfront payments and thus there is a potential risk of misstatement due to fraud or error if an inappropriate approach to revenue recognition is taken.
Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements on segmental reporting and note 1.4 to the consolidated financial statements on the related Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
How the scope of our audit responded Our audit procedures focused on: to the key audit matter understanding the substance of the contractual requirements, particularly for those contracts that involve designing and developing customised software solutions: and considering the appropriate accounting literature, notably IAS 18 Revenue and also, for those contracts that involve designing and developing bespoke software solutions, IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Our work included: reviewing and assessing contractual agreements in order to identify the key accounting considerations such as the identification of the deliverables within the contracts: meeting with the relevant commercial managers to understand the substance of the agreements: obtaining evidence to support transactions such as invoices for services, cash receipts, or proof of delivery for software solutions: and assessing whether the accounting treatment applied by Management is in line with the appropriate accounting standards.
Key observations We are satisfied that revenue from the Ocado Solutions contracts has been recognised appropriately and in line with the contractual agreements and the relevant accounting standards.
Refer to note 2.1 page 136 in the consolidated financial statements.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality We determined materiality for the group to be 6 million 2016: 5 million.
Basis for determining We determined materiality to be 6 million based on revenue.
As a percentage materiality is 0.4% of revenue 2016: 0.4% of revenue.
materiality Parent company materiality was determined as less than 0.5% of total assets.
Rationale for the This has been based on professional judgement and the requirement of auditing standards.
We believe revenue to be the financial benchmark applied measure most relevant to users of the financial statements given Ocados performance, in particular its levels of profitability and the significant investment in technology.
It also provides a consistent basis to the approach taken by the previous auditor.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 2016: 235,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 124 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM
