William Hill PLC 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of WilliamHill PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 26 December 2017 and of the Groups loss for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of WilliamHill plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Statement of Group Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 34: and the Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 12.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified were: Impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets in Australia: Completeness and accuracy of revenue recognition in Retail and Online: Unrecorded retirements in capitalised software: and Valuation of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
In the prior year, one of the key audit matters was impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets: in the current year, this matter has been pinpointed to Australia.
All other key audit matters are consistent to prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year for the Group financial statements was 12.5 million which was determined on the basis of 4.9% of adjusted profit before tax of 254.9 million.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope on audit work at three locations: UK, Gibraltar and Australia.
These locations represent the principal business segments and account for over 96% of the Groups revenue, 94% of operating profit and 96% of the Groups net assets.
Significant changes in As described above, we have pinpointed our impairment risk to focus on the Australian segment.
In particular, we our approach focused on managements judgements with respect to cash flow forecasts for the Australian business and how these would be impacted by enacted and ongoing regulatory change.
There were no other significant changes to our audit approach in the current year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 66 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 4649 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of goodwill and non-current assets Key audit The Group has goodwill of 959.1 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives of 484.3 million which are tested matter description annually for impairment against the value in use of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs.
Management has recognised an impairment of 238.3 million in the Australian CGU following its annual impairment test.
This impairment reflects changes in regulation in Australia including the ban on credit betting and the introduction of a Point of Consumption Tax POCT by certain states.
The annual impairment test includes significant management judgement concerning regulatory changes in the market and its impact on the cash flows of the CGU.
The impairment test is also based on key assumptions about future underlying profitability and cash flows, selecting appropriate discount and long-term growth rates, which are disclosed in Note 12 and in Key sources of estimation uncertainty in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies, and is a significant matter considered by the Audit Committee on page 71.
William Hill PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of William Hill PLC continued How the scope of our We focused our audit work on challenging key assumptions used by management in conducting their impairment audit responded to the review.
This work was principally carried out by the component audit team in Australia, under the direction and review key audit matter of the Group audit team, who also challenged the work performed and conclusions reached.
The component auditor work included: Checking the mathematical accuracy of the impairment model and compliance of the methodology with IAS 36: Reviewing and challenging managements cash flow forecasts, including testing managements process and controls for preparing and reviewing the impairment model as well as understanding and critically assessing the key assumptions underpinning the model with a focus on those which are most sensitive: Independently assessing the key regulatory changes, their likely impact and timing: Performing a sensitivity analysis of certain key inputs which drive the value of the business: and Considering the ongoing strategic review for the business.
In addition, our component audit team worked with our Australia in-house corporate finance valuation specialists in: Independently calculating the WACC rate that should be applied in the impairment model: and Assessing the value of the business by performing an independent fair value less costs to sell model, taking into account market multiples, recent transactions and other evidence indicating fair value.
The Group audit team carried out further sensitivity analysis on managements model to challenge key assumptions, principally the timing, amount and probability of further POCT enactment, and varying the discount rate assumption.
We noted that the value in use is very sensitive to the impact and timing of the introduction of POCT in Australia on a state by state basis and we discussed with management the additional disclosures to be made in the current period with respect to: Managements assessment of the probability of the introduction of POCT in states where it has not yet been enacted and how that has been reflected in the impairment model: and The disclosure of the estimation uncertainty and the reasonably possible further impairment which could arise in the event that the POCT outcome is adverse to that included in managements impairment model.
Key observations From the results of our procedures, we concurred with the impairment of 238.3 million recorded by management and the corresponding recoverable amount of the Australian CGU.
We were satisfied with the final disclosures that management made in the financial statements.
Completeness and accuracy of revenue recognition in Retail and Online Key audit The Group has a number of income streams, the most significant being revenue recognised in the Groups Retail matter description 913.1million and Online 616.9 million segments.
Revenue is derived from high volume and typically lower value transactions and is dependent on the outcome of events wagered on.
The Groups accounting policy for revenue recognition is disclosed in Key accounting policies on page 114.
The completeness and accuracy of revenue recognised is dependent on the interfacing of systems in Retail and Online segments, and is reliant on the IT control environment of third party applications such as Openbet and the manual controls around matching revenue to cash movements.
Due to the complexity of this environment there is a risk that revenue errors go undetected or are not detected on a timely basis.
There is also a fraud risk around potential manipulation of the manual cash reconciliations.
How the scope of our Together with our IT audit specialists we evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating audit responded to effectiveness of both automated and manual controls in the revenue cycle including cash reconciliations from the the risk betting operating systems.
General IT controls were tested for key revenue and financial information systems involved in the revenue process, as well as the interface between these systems.
We performed substantive analytical review procedures over the Groups Retail and Online gaming revenue streams, and substantively tested the existence and accuracy of a sample of bets placed within the Retail division.
For Online sportsbook revenues we used a data analytics approach to fully recalculate all simple bets, which comprise over 80% of revenue recognised.
For the remainder, which comprised more complex bets, we recalculated a sample of bets.
Key observations Our work was concluded satisfactorily with respect to the Retail segment with no significant findings.
With respect to the Online segment, we identified three IT General Control deficiencies.
In response to these control findings, we performed the following procedures: we identified detective controls, which we tested to evaluate to what extent they would mitigate the impact of the control deficiencies: we placed a sample of bets during the year and traced them through to Openbet transaction reports to test for completeness: and we tested Openbet transaction reports used in our audit testing for completeness and accuracy.
We concluded that the risk of material revenue misstatement was reduced to an acceptable level.
In addition, we recommended that management continues to work to further strengthen preventative controls in order to reduce reliance on detective mitigating controls in future.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Unrecorded retirements in capitalised software Key audit As disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements, 80.7 million of computer software additions were capitalised in 2017 matter description as the Group continues to invest in its technology.
The net book value of computer software assets at the balance sheet date was 126.2 million.
This continued investment in software development gives rise to a risk that existing assets are made obsolete by new technology and should be impaired before expiry of their useful economic lives.
The Groups accounting policy for computer software is disclosed in Statement of Group Accounting Policies on page 160.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over audit responded to impairment and the capitalisation of costs.
the risk We tested a sample of capitalised software additions, assessing the business case, holding discussions with project managers and reviewing internal audit and capital expenditure reports.
This was done to determine whether new assets created replaced existing assets and therefore indicated either a risk of impairment or a revised useful life for those existing assets.
In addition, we also considered managements paper which documented their own review for impairment and we discussed the findings of the paper with management.
Key observations We have not identified any unrecorded impairments above our reporting threshold or significant changes required to the useful economic lives of intangibles.
Valuation of provisions for uncertain tax positions Risk description The Group operates in different jurisdictions with complex tax legislation which requires management to make judgements and estimates regarding the interpretation of local tax laws and potential tax provisions and exposures.
A description of the critical accounting judgements used in relation to taxation is included on page 115.
This is also a significant matter considered by the Audit Committee as set out on page 71.
How the scope of our Our audit approach was to use our tax specialists to evaluate the tax provisions recorded by management and potential audit responded to tax exposures.
We challenged managements judgements utilising tax specialists in the UK, Australia and Gibraltar the risk using their experience in country specific tax law and experience in similar structures and operations.
In assessing those judgements taken we also considered relevant correspondence with tax authorities and had regard to managements advice obtained from third party professional advisors.
We also considered whether there were other risk factors that should be considered in the evaluation of tax risks.
We recommended further enhancements to the disclosure of tax risks in the Annual Report.
Key observations We are satisfied with managements conclusions with respect to the recognition and measurement of material tax risks in the financial statements.
We are satisfied with managements final disclosures in the financial statements.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Group materiality 12.5 million 2016: 10.5 million 11.25 million Basis for determining Our Group materiality is below 5% 2016: below 5% of We originally used 3% of net assets as the basis of materiality adjusted profit before interest and tax, disclosed in note 3 materiality but then further capped this at 90% of to the Group financial statements.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before interest and tax has been used The Parent Company acts principally as a holding company benchmark applied as itis the primary measure of performance used by and therefore net assets is a key measure.
We have used adjusted profit measures been applied in line with our methodology for setting materiality for components.
that exclude volatility of exceptional items from our determination, to aid the consistency and comparability ofour materiality base each year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.6 million 2016: 0.5 million for the Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
William Hill PLC 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of William Hill PLC continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations: UK: Gibraltar: and Australia.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for over 96% 2016: over 97% of the Groups revenue, 94% of operating profit 2016: over 95% and over 96% 2016: over 96% of the Groups net assets.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on each of the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 6.2 million to 9.4 million 2016: 5.3 million to 7.9 million.
The Group audit team also performed analytical procedures over the Groups operations in the US, which were not significant to the Groups results.
At the Parent entity level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We included all component audit teams in our team briefing and discussed their risk assessment.
The audit procedures in the UK were performed by members of the Group audit team.
In the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Gibraltar.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matter Auditor tenure The Parent Company was incorporated in 2001.
We were appointed in December 2001 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 1 January 2002 and subsequent financial periods: this was just prior to the listing of the Parent Company on the London Stock Exchange.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the periods ending 1 January 2002 to 26 December 2017.
Also, we were appointed on 22 January 1991 to other Group entities to audit the financial statements for the period ending 1 January 1991.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 28years, covering the periods ending 1 January 1991 to 26 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Paul Franek FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 23 February 2018
