Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of St. Modwen Properties Materiality 18.0m PLC the Company for the year ended 30 November 2017 which Group financial statements comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of as a whole 1.0% of total assets comprehensive income, Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, Group cash flow statement, Company balance Coverage 99% of Group total assets sheet, Company statement of changes in equity, and the related Risks of material misstatement: notes, including the Group accounting policies on pages 126 to 132 Group recurring risks Valuation of investment and the Company accounting policies on page 170. properties In our opinion: Valuation of inventories the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 November New Covent Garden Market 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: liability the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Parent Company key Recoverability of Parent accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as audit matter Company investments in adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : subsidiaries and joint ventures the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including 2.
K ey audit matters: our assessment of risks of material FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the statements and include the most significant assessed risks of Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by Basis for opinion us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, We were appointed as auditor by the directors on 23 February 2017 and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context therefore the year ended 30 November 2017 is our first year acting of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial as auditors.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed a separate opinion on these matters.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 2.
K ey audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Valuation of investment Subjective valuation Our procedures, assisted by our own property valuation specialist properties Valuation of investment for procedures 1, 2, 3 and 4, included: 1,168.5m properties held at fair value is 1.
Understanding of valuation approach: Meeting with the a key area of judgement in Refer to page 78 Audit Groups external valuers to understand the assumptions and the financial statements.
It is Committee report, page 127 methodologies used in valuing the investment properties and considered a risk due to its accounting policy and pages the market evidence used by the external valuers to support magnitude and the subjective 148 to 149 financial their assumptions.
We also obtained an understanding of nature of the valuations, disclosures.
directors involvement in the valuation process to assess particularly the estimates whether appropriate oversight has occurred.
made in relation to market comparable yield rates and 2.
A ssessing valuers credentials: Critically assessed the estimated rental value ERV.
independence, professional qualifications, competence and experience of the external valuers used by the Group.
Methodology choice: Critically assessed the methodology used by the valuers by considering whether their valuations were in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book and relevant accounting standards.
Benchmarking assumptions: Challenged the key assumptions upon which the valuations were based for a sample of properties, including those relating to ERV and yield rates by making a comparison to our own assumption ranges derived from market data.
Input assessment: Agreed observable inputs used in the valuations, such as rental income, occupancy rates, lease incentives, break clauses and lease lengths back to lease agreements for a sample of properties.
Disclosure assessment: Critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the judgement in relation to valuing properties.
Our results We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 116 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The risk Our response Valuation of inventories Subjective valuation Our procedures: 352.7m Inventories comprise properties 1.
Control design: Evaluated the design of the entity level which have been previously Refer to page 79 Audit controls around Board review of the development appraisals.
developed and are ready for Committee report, page 127 sale, properties which are under 2.
Our sector expertise: Discussed a sample of development accounting policy and page construction with a view to sites with management to obtain an understanding of the 154 financial disclosures.
sell and land which has been status of the site focusing on matters relevant to the site acquired for future development valuation, being the status of the development and whether with a view to subsequent sale.
the appraisal reflects any additional unexpected costs.
We selected a risk-based sample using criteria including quantum In order to assess the net of work in progress, low profit margin and length of realisable value of inventory, development project.
appraisals are prepared for each site, which includes forecast 3.
Test of details: For each sample development site we revenue and costs and provides challenged whether expected revenues in site appraisals an indication of the recoverability reflect the revenue seen on similar assets in the inventory of inventory.
The risk within portfolio and tested the key cost assumptions within the valuation of inventory is that appraisal to supporting evidence.
Historical comparisons: Where a site has been appraised of judgements that could be over a period of time, we sought to understand the changes subject to error resulting in the to assumptions over time for the sample of sites and net realisable value not being considered whether those changes were consistent with accurately measured.
Test of detail: We compared the value carried in the balance sheet with the sales price achieved for a selection of property sales after the balance sheet date and for sales throughout the year as a review of the past accuracy of the Groups estimates.
Assessing transparency: Critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to judgement and estimation in relation to inventory.
Our results We found the valuation of inventories to be acceptable.
New Covent Garden Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: Market liability There is a risk arising from the 1.
Understanding of valuation approach: We undertook a call 78.9m, representing the accounting estimate in relation with the external quantity surveyor expert, Prosurv Consult, Groups share of the liability, to the total costs expected to to understand and assess the reasonableness of the included within the Groups be incurred in the delivery of assumptions, such as cost inflation and cash flow timings, and investment in VSM NCGM the replacement New Covent the methodologies used by the expert in coming to the gross Limited of 14.0m and the Garden Market due to the construction cost liability.
We also assessed the Groups share of VSM NCGM judgements involved in reasonableness of the discount rate applied to the experts Limiteds result for the year assessing the appropriateness gross cost cash flows.
of 13.8 m. of the measurement of the obligation, including the 2.
A ssessing experts credentials: Critically assessed the Refer to page 79 Audit assumptions on quantum and independence, professional qualifications, competence and Committee report, pages 130 timing of costs made by the experience of the external expert used by the Group.
to 131 accounting policy and external expert and the page 153 financial disclosures.
Sensitivity analysis: Assessed the sensitivity of the discount rate used by calculation of the liability to the discount rate by performing management to come to the sensitivity analysis on the rate applied to the experts gross liability to be recorded in the cost cash flows.
We re-performed the discounting calculation financial statements.
to confirm it had been calculated correctly.
Disclosure assessment: Critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to New Covent Garden Market liability.
Our results We found the liability recognised in respect of the New Covent Garden Market development to be acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 2.
K ey audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recoverability of Low risk high value Parent Our procedures included: Parent Company Company key audit matter Tests of detail: We re-performed the equity method calculations investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries and used to determine the carrying value of the investments in and joint ventures joint ventures represents 43% subsidiary and joint ventures and assessed the recoverable 773.5m of the Companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not at Refer to page 170 accounting a high risk of significant Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed on policy and page 172 financial misstatement or subject to the subsidiary audits for a sample of subsidiaries and considering disclosures.
the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
However, due to their Our results materiality in the context of We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of the Parent Company financial investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
O ur application of materiality and an overview of the scope Total assets of the Group 1,721.6m Group materiality 18.0m of our audit Group total assets Group materiality Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 18.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group total 18.0m assets of 1,721.6m of which it represents 1.0%.
Whole financial statements materiality We applied a lower materiality, set at 3.0m, to the specific Group 13.5m income statement items which may be of specific interest to users Range of materiality regarding the Group income statement and that could reasonably at 80 components be expected to influence the Companys members assessment of 1,000 to 13.5m the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality for these items are determined with reference to trading profit as defined by the Group in note 2a, which comprises net rental and other income, development profits, gains on disposal of investment properties, administrative expenses and net finance costs before amortisation and valuation movements.
0.5m Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole Misstatements reported to the Audit Commi ee was set at 13.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets of which it represents 0.8%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 155 reporting components, we subjected 78 to full scope audits for Group purposes, including 65 full scope audits for statutory purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
The Group audit team performed the work on all components.
The remaining 1% of Group revenue, 3% of Group profit before tax and 1% of Group total assets is represented by 77 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1% of any of Group revenue, Group profit before tax or Group total assets.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 118 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Group total assets Group pro t before tax We are required to report to you if: Full scope for Group audit purposes Full scope for Group audit purposes Out of audit scope Out of audit scope we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in the Group accounting policies on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 1 3 uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 113 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the 97 99 Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the annual report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other Group revenue Full scope for Group audit purposes information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion Out of audit scope or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
1 Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic 99 report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the viability statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs Annual Report continued website at www.
Corporate governance disclosures Irregularities ability to detect We are required to report to you if: Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and we have identified material inconsistencies between the regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we and the directors statement that they consider that the annual considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced of anti-bribery and corruption.
We identified these areas through and understandable and provides the information necessary for discussion with the directors and other management as required shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, by auditing standards, from our sector experience, and from business model and strategy: or inspection of the Groups regulatory, licensing and legal correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations the section of the annual report describing the work of the in other areas including financial reporting, and company and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters taxation legislation.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and We are required to report to you if the corporate governance regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 anti-bribery and corruption, as part of our procedures on the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and the Listing Rules for our review.
regulations, we made enquiries of directors and other management We have nothing to report in these respects.
as required by auditing standards.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance we are required to report by exception throughout the audit.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the responsibilities directors remuneration report to be audited are not in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, agreement with the accounting records and returns: or in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Companys members those matters we are required to state to are not made: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor Directors responsibilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 114, Chartered Accountants the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial 15 Canada Square statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair Canary Wharf view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable London E14 5GL the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group 5 February 2018 and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 120 Annual report and financial statements 2017
