| 38 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion the Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in January 2017 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC the Company which comprise: the Income Statement: the Balance Sheet: the Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Statement of Changes in Equity: the Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in January 2017 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and existence of listed investments Recognition of investment income Within this report any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 7.5m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net assets at 31 October 2017.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes There were no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
in our approach | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 39 Independent Auditors Report continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the We confirm that we have going concern basis of accounting contained within the Accounting Policies section nothing material to add or of the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability draw attention to in respect of the Company contained within the strategic report on page 16. of these matters.
We agreed with the We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw Directors adoption of the attention to in relation to: going concern basis of the disclosures on pages 30 to 31 that describe the principal risks and explain accounting and we did not how they are being managed or mitigated: identify any such material uncertainties.
However, the Directors' confirmation on page 30 that they have carried out a robust because not all future assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would events or conditions can be threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: predicted, this statement the Directors statement in the Accounting Policies section of the financial is not a guarantee as to statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going the Companys ability concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any to continue as a going material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period concern.
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 16 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and existence of listed investments Key audit matter description Listed investments of 799.9m 2016: 891.5m represent the most significant number on the balance sheet and are the main driver of the Companys performance.
Listed investments represented 94.6% 2016: 95.3% of total assets of the Company at 31 October 2017 see accounting policy b and note 8.
There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the listed investments held by the Company may not be reflective of fair value.
There is a risk over the recording and custody of listed investments, and whether listed investments recorded are the property of the Company.
The description of the key audit matter above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 34.
| 40 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued Valuation and existence of listed investments How the scope of our audit We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: responded to the key audit critically asssessed the design and implementation of the controls over matter valuation and ownership of investments: confirmed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year-end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: and confirmed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year-end to confirmations received directly from the custodian and depositary.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we have not identified any material errors which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Recognition of investment income Key audit matter description Dividend income of 25.7m 2016: 28.3m represented 99.2% 2016: 98.8% of the total income of the Company see note 1.
Dividends from equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
Overseas dividends are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis and included gross of withholding tax.
There is a risk that investment income is incomplete which could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value.
We also identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
How the scope of our audit We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: responded to the key audit critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over matter revenue recognition including managements monitoring of the accuracy and completeness of revenue: for a sample of investments held, agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts recorded within the general ledger to confirm that the recognition policy has been applied consistently: and agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 41 Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 7.5m 2016: 8.5m Basis for 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
determining materiality Rationale for the Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark benchmark applied for investors and is the key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 150,000 2016: 169,800, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatements was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at the administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report comprises the information included in the Annual Report including the Strategic in respect of these matters.
Report and the Directors Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
| 42 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued Other information In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 43 Independent Auditors Report continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Companys financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion in respect of these matters.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 October 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ending 31 October 2002 to 31 October 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 8 December 2017 | 44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
