INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Britvic plcs group financial statements and parent company Our responsibilities under those standards are further financial statements the financial statements give a true described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent the financial statements section of our report below.
We are companys aff airs as at 1 October 2017 and of the groups independent of the group and parent company in accordance pro t for the period then ended: with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the group financial statements have been properly prepared the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we the parent company financial statements have been properly have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally with these requirements.
accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is the financial statements have been prepared in accordance sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern the IAS Regulation.
and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following We have audited the financial statements of Britvic plc information in the annual report, in relation to which the which comprise: ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: Group Parent company the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 28 to 32 Consolidated income Balance sheet as at that describe the principal risks and explain how they are statement for the 52 week 1 October 2017 being managed or mitigated: period ended 1October 2017 the directors con rmation set out on page 28 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity principal risks facing the entity, including those that would comprehensive income for the 52 week period ended threaten its business model, future performance, solvency for the 52 week period 1October 2017 or liquidity: ended 1 October 2017 the directors statement set out on page 88 in the financial Consolidated balance sheet Related notes 1 to 13 to the statements about whether they considered it appropriate as at 1 October 2017 financial statements including to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing a summary of significant them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties accounting policies to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Consolidated statement of cash financial statements: flows for the 52 week period whether the directors statement in relation to going concern ended 1 October 2017 required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge Consolidated statement of obtained in the audit: or changes in equity for the the directors explanation set out on page 33 in the annual 52week period ended report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 1October 2017 entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement Related notes 1 to 32 to the as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that financial statements, including the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet a summary of significant its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their accounting policies assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Overview of our audit approach Risk revenue recognition Key audit Fraud Risk Revenue Recognition through matters inappropriate manual journal entries or Description of risk through manipulation of the cut-off of revenue Given the market focus on the groups revenue performance transactions in jurisdictions where judgement we consider there to be a risk in relation to the potential is required to determine correct cut-off overstatement of revenue.
Management reward and incentive schemes based on achieving profit targets may also place Fraud Risk Management Override of Internal pressure on management to manipulate revenue recognition.
Controls over Customer Discounts There is a risk that management may override controls Fraud Risk Management Override of Internal to intentionally misstate revenue transactions by recording Controls over Customer Claims and Other fictitious revenue transactions, either through inappropriate Financial Items manual journal entries or through manipulation of the cut-off of revenue transactions in the Brazil business unit where Audit scope We performed full audit procedures over the judgement is required to determine correct cut-off.
Group level functions in addition to the financial information of seven components and audit Our response to this risk procedures on speci c balances for one further we understood the groups revenue recognition policies component.
We further perform speci c audit and how they are applied, including the relevant controls: procedures over six further components.
we tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts, applying a number of parameters designed to identify The components where we performed and test entries that were not in accordance with our full or speci c audit procedures accounted expectations.
This included analysing and selecting for 110% of pro t before tax stated before journals for testing which appeared unusual in nature adjusting items, 92% of revenue and 87% either due to size, preparer or being manually posted.
We veri ed the journals to originating documentation to con rm that the entries were valid: Materiality Overall group materiality of 8.2m which for the GB and Republic of Ireland full scope components, represents 5% of pro t before tax stated before which together form 64% of the groups total revenue, adjusting items as fide ned on page 152. we performed data analysis over the entire revenue process from revenue recognition through to invoice Key audit matters settlement.
Where the postings did not follow our Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional expectation, we investigated outliers and tested judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial these entries to ensure their validity by agreeing statements of the current period and include the most significant back to source documentation: assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due we selected a sample of post year end credit notes to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those and ensured that, where corroborating evidence which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, demonstrated that the credit note related to the audit the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts period, these credit notes were appropriately provided of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in for in the financial statements: and the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, we performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate transactions around the period end date, to check that they opinion on these matters.
were recognised in the appropriate period with speci c focus The risks noted below are discussed in the Audit Committee on Britvic Brazil where there can be a large time lag between Report on page 60 and in the accounting policy notes on the despatch of goods and them reaching their destination.
The above work was performed at all full scope locations.
Within International Standard on Auditing UK 240 there is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition.
We therefore evaluated the revenue transactions or assertions which give rise to such risk in the current period as noted above.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures we have not identified evidence of inappropriate management override in respect of the amount of revenue recorded through either inappropriate journal entries or manipulation of the Brazil business unit cut-off estimate.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Risk management override of internal controls over INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT customer claims and other financial items TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC CONTINUED Description of risk The risk of material misstatement due to management override of controls is considered a risk in every audit.
Management has the primary responsibility to prevent and detect fraud.
We are required by professional auditing standards to consider how this risk may manifest itself and design appropriate procedures: There are a number of judgemental accruals which are susceptible to manipulation by management including Risk management override of internal controls customer claims in GB&I, group wide bonuses and contingent over discounts liabilities associated with the acquisition of Bela Ischia.
Our response to this risk Description of risk We performed procedures, including analytical procedures The risk of material misstatement due to management override and journal entry testing, suffi cient to address the identi ed of controls is considered a risk in every audit.
Management has risk in respect of subjective areas which were considered the primary responsibility to prevent and detect fraud.
We are to be most susceptible to management override.
required by professional auditing standards to consider how For GB&I customer claims: this risk may manifest itself and design appropriate procedures.
we held bi-annual discussions with a sample of customer Management could manipulate results through incomplete account teams directly involved in negotiations with recording of expenses and liabilities, including the accounting customers, including those responsible for the relationship for promotional discounts and long term discounts which are with the big supermarkets.
Through these discussions we deducted from revenue and account development funds that understood the current relationship with each customer are separately classified within selling and distribution costs.
and the status of any claims: we tested the methodology and process by which claims Our response to this risk have been accrued for appropriateness and consistency we obtained an understanding of the groups processes with the prior year, speci cally around the process for for the recognition and management of discounts provided identifying claims which have not been received and to customers including obtaining an understanding of the audited a sample of payments made after the year end design of the controls in place within the GB and Ireland to audit the accuracy of the accrued amounts: and divisions where such discounts are most prevalent: we compared the level of aged debt held in relation to we tested a sample of long term and promotional discount signi cant customers to the customer claims provision expenses and account development fund expenses and investigated any additional signi cant un-provided throughout the period and the period end accruals by aged debts that did not have a corresponding provision agreeing balances through to supporting documentation within the customer claims provision.
and ensured that the revenue recognition policies adopted For other financial items including group wide bonuses : complied with IFRS: we audited the inputs and assumptions into the estimates we performed analytical procedures including the correlation made by management to determine if balanced of revenue to discounts to assess completeness of discounts: judgements and accurate calculations have been applied: we performed testing of post year end discounts, both where possible, we have tested post year payments settled and recorded, as evidence of the appropriateness to validate the amounts recorded at the reporting period of discount accruals recognised at the year end: end: and we selected a sample of post year end credit notes and where similar accruals and provisions were held in the ensured that, where audit evidence demonstrated that the previous period we compared assumptions used in the credit note related to the audit period, that these credit notes current period calculations to those used previously and were appropriately provided for in the financial statements: tested any changes in assumptions to gain assurance we held bi-annual meetings with the customer account that they are appropriate.
teams in GB to update our knowledge of the status For the contingent liabilities arising on the acquisition of customer negotiations and the process by which of Bela Ischia: discounts have been recorded: and we have inspected the contract terms of the sale and we performed targeted journal entry testing at both the purchase agreement to understand the nature of any general ledger and rebate transaction front-end system items covered by warranties given in the sale and levels.
Our testing was focused on manual journal entries purchase agreement: posted, both to the period end accruals and to the rebate we have traced the gross liabilities through to supporting income statement accounts, with a particular focus on documentation: and journal entries posted close to the period end.
we have assessed the appropriateness of the weighted Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee average probability applied to the gross liabilities to arrive Based on our procedures, we have identified no instances of at the fair value.
inappropriate management override of the discounts either expensed or accrued in the financial statements.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures, we have identified no instances of inappropriate management override in the areas noted.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope REVENUE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this GB & Group enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial 8% Wide Functions statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the Full Scope organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide 6% controls, changes in the business environment and other France factors such as Internal audit results when assessing the 9% Full Scope level of work to be performed at each entity In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Brazil group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate Full Scope quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial 59% 18% Ireland statements, in addition to auditing the Group level functions, Full & we selected eight components covering operations within the Specic Scope GB, Ireland, France and Brazil business units within the group.
Other Of the eight components selected, we performed full audit Components procedures over the financial information of seven components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
These components were the GB, France and Brazil operations and certain operations from the Ireland business.
For one further operation within the ADJUSTED PBT Ireland business specific scope component, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact GB & Group 0.5% on the significant accounts in the financial statements either 9.5 % Wide Functions because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Full Scope 8% The reporting components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures accounted for 110% 2016: France 95% of the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting Full Scope 13% items, 92% 2016: 96% of the groups revenue and 87% Brazil 2016: 97% of the groups total assets.
A number of loss Full Scope making components were not assigned a full or specific scope which results in our coverage of profit before tax stated 88% Ireland before adjusting items exceeding 100%.
For the current year: Full & Specic Scope the full scope components contributed 108% 2016: 105% of the groups pro t before tax stated before adjusting items, Other 91% 2016: 88% of the groups revenue and 86% 2016: Components 91% of the Groups Total assets: the speci c scope component contributed 2% 2016: 10% of the groups pro t before tax stated before adjusting items, Changes from the prior year 1% 2016: 8% of the groups Revenue and 1% 2016: 6% of Our scoping remains unchanged from the prior period with the the groups Total assets.
The audit scope of this component exception of the allocation of a full scope audit for Bela Ischia, did not include testing of all signi cant accounts of the since this entity was acquired during the period in addition component but has contributed to the coverage of signi cant to a refinement of our scoping of the International business.
accounts tested for the group.
Involvement with component teams for six further components speci ed procedures were In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we performed over certain aspects of the groups acquisition determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken accounting, customer discounts accounting and accounting at each of the components by us, as the primary audit for the groups operations in the USA.
engagement team, or by component auditors from other Of the remaining components that together represent 10% of EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items, none The senior statutory auditor leads the audit of all full and are individually greater than -5% of the groups profit before specific components within the GB and Ireland businesses, tax stated before adjusting items.
For these components, we the specified procedures performed in respect of the performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing International businesses, in addition to the audit of the group of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and functions.
These full and specific scope components represent foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any 65% of group revenue and 96% of the groups profit before tax.
potential risks of material misstatement to the group financial The primary team interacted regularly with the remaining statements, in addition to the specified procedures for component teams in Brazil and France where appropriate applicable components as detailed above.
during various stages of the audit, which included reviewing the key planning and conclusion deliverables requested by the primary team.
The Senior Statutory Auditor further participated in the Brazil and France component teams planning including the discussion of fraud and error and joined the closing meeting calls in both territories.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 pages 149 to 154, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT other information.
TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly CONTINUED stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine extent of our audit procedures.
whether there is a material misstatement in the financial We determined materiality for the group to be 8.2 million statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
2016: 7.7 million, which is 5% of profit before tax stated If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that before adjusting items 2016: 5% of profit before tax adjusting there is a material misstatement of the other information, for the exceptional costs associated with the acquisition and we are required to report that fact.
We believe that profit before tax We have nothing to report in this regard.
stated before adjusting items is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the group.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report any uncorrected material Starting Profit before tax of 138.8m as per the misstatements of the other information where we conclude basis Annual report that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 89 Adjusting items totalling 25.9m 21.8m the statement given by the directors that they consider Adjustments included in operating profit and 4.1m included in the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole finance costs per page 152 of the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially Represents 5% of the profit before tax stated Materiality inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or before adjusting items Audit committee reporting set out on pages 58 to 61 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to Performance materiality the audit committee: or The application of materiality at the individual account or balance Directors statement of compliance with the UK level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level Corporate Governance Code set out on page 50 the the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected parts of the directors statement required under the Listing misstatements exceeds materiality.
Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Corporate Governance Code containing provisions speci ed assessment of the groups overall control environment, for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 4.1m relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We reduced the performance materiality factor from 75%, in the prior year, to 50% given there were Opinions on other matters prescribed by the a small number of individually immaterial misstatements Companies Act 2006 identified in our prior period audit.
In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report Audit work at component locations for the purpose of to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement with the Companies Act 2006. accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for of the audit: each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the the information given in the strategic report and the directors component to the group as a whole and our assessment of report for the financial year for which the financial statements the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the range of performance materiality allocated to components the strategic report and the directors report have been was 0.8m to 4.1m 2016: 0.6m to 4.9m.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Reporting threshold Matters on which we are required to report by exception An amount below which identified misstatements are In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and considered as being clearly trivial.
the parent company and its environment obtained in the course We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.41m the strategic report or the directors report.
2016: 0.39m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
report to you if, in our opinion: We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light adequate accounting records have not been kept by the of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Other information the parent company financial statements and the part of The other information comprises the information included in the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not annual report set out on pages 1 to 89 and 149 to 154, including in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 43, Governance, set certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed out on pages 44 to 89, and Additional Information, set out on by law are not made: or 94 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information we have not received all the information and explanations identi ed, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: we require for our audit.
and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, Responsibilities of directors we performed audit procedures to address each identi ed As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals statement set out on page 89, the directors are responsible and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that for the preparation of the financial statements and for being the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal Based on this understanding we designed our audit control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws preparation of financial statements that are free from material and regulations identi ed in the paragraphs above.
Our misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on In preparing the financial statements, the directors are manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large responsible for assessing the group and parent companys or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, business: enquiries of legal counsel, group management, matters related to going concern and using the going concern internal audit, divisional management and all full and speci c basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease the key audit matters section above.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies financial statements Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about might state to the companys members those matters we are whether the financial statements as a whole are free from required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that company and the companys members as a body, for our an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements A further description of our responsibilities for the audit can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, of the financial statements is located on the individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users uk .
This description forms part of our taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered Other matters we are required to address capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud Following the recommendation of the audit committee The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to after the completion of a competitive tender process, identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of we were reappointed as auditors by the shareholders and the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient signed an engagement letter dated 16 May 2017.
We were appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks appointed by the company at the AGM on 31 January 2017 of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing to audit the financial statements for the 52 week period and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond ending 1 October 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the The period of total uninterrupted engagements including audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention previous renewals and reappointments since Britvic became and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with a standalone entity upon its otation is 12 years, covering governance of the entity and management.
the 52 week period ending 1 October 2006 to the 52 week period ending 1 October 2017.
Our approach was as follows: The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Standard were not provided to the group or the parent frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined company during the 52 week period ended 1 October 2017 that the most signi cant frameworks which are directly and we remain independent of the group and the parent relevant to speci c assertions in the financial statements are company in conducting the audit.
those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance to the audit committee Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain signi cant laws and regulations which may have an eff ect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Simon ONeill being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and Senior statutory auditor those laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and data protection.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, We understood how the group is complying with those Statutory Auditor frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal Birmingham audit and those responsible for legal and compliance 28 November 2017 procedures.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee and any correspondence received from Notes: regulatory bodies.
The maintenance and integrity of the Britvic group plc web site We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and statements to material misstatement, including how fraud accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes might occur by meeting with management from various that may have occurred to the financial statements since they parts of the business to understand where it considered were initially presented on the website.
there was susceptibility to fraud.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from performance targets and their in uence on eff orts made legislation in other jurisdictions.
by management to manage earnings or in uence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs and controls that the group has established to address risks Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95
