The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC affairs as at 31 October 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC the Company for the year ended 31 October 2017 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Position, the Cash FlowStatement, and the related notes 1 to 23, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework thathas been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 25 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 51 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement set out on page 51 in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 26 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
42 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Inaccurate recognition of investment income including the risk of management override of controls.
Valuation and existence of the investment portfolio, including the current asset investment in the Deutsche Global Liquidity Series Fund.
Materiality Overall materiality of 10.78m 2016: 9.27m which represents 1% of net assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The key audit matters disclosed below are consistent with those identified in the Independent Auditors Report for the year ended 31 October 2016.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Inaccurate recognition of investment We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures identified no issues with the accuracy or completeness income 29.45m 2016: 24.66m We obtained an understanding of BNP of income receipts.
As described on page 41 in the Report of the Paribas Securities Services the Audit Committee and as per the accounting Administrator or BNP processes and There were no material special dividends policy set out on pages 52 and 53. controls for the recognition of investment received during the year.
income by performing walkthrough As can be seen in note 3 in the notes to the Based on the work performed, we have no procedures and reviewing the financial statements, the Company has matters to report.
reported investment income of 29.45 million 2016: 24.66 million.
This includes special We agreed a sample of 68 dividends dividend income of 1.08m 2016:1.38m.
received from the underlying financial records to an independent pricing source For special dividends the Company and to the bank.
assesses income received during regular Audit Committee meetings and then We agreed all accrued dividends at the determines whether amounts should be period end to the Custodian and Depositary credited to the revenue or capital columns and post year end bank statement.
of the Statement of Comprehensive We selected a sample of 25 investments Income based on the underlying substance from the Companys valuation report, of the transaction.
checked to an independent source for any We focus on the recognition of revenue and dividends declared by those securities and its presentation in the financial statements agreed the recognition of such dividend to because the revenue return is a key area of the income report.
We identified no individually material special dividends to test.
In addition to the planned scope, we reviewed the treatment applied to a sample of three special dividends which in aggregate represent 583,000.
For these dividends we assessed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment by reference to publicly available information.
All dividends were treated as revenue.
To test for the risk of management override we tested a sample of manual journal entries posted to the income account during the year.
43 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Valuation and existence of the We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures, of the listed investment portfolio, including the investment portfolio assets, identified no We obtained an understanding of the current asset investment in the material error in the pricing or Administrators processes and controls for Deutsche Global Liquidity Series Fund reconciliation.
the valuation of investments by performing As described on page 41 in the Report of walkthrough procedures and reviewing the There were no material unquoted the Audit Committee.
investments at the balance sheet date.
The investment portfolio at the year-end We agreed all of the quoted investment Based on the work performed, we have no comprised of quoted equities 1,101.82m holding prices at the year end to a relevant matters to report.
2016: 951.22m and a current asset independent source.
investment in the Deutsche Global Liquidity The unquoted investments were found to be Series Fund of 23.25m 2016: 21.35m.
immaterial, both individually and in The investment portfolio at the year-end also aggregate.
Notwithstanding this, we included unquoted investments of 445,000 reviewed the basis for determining the fair 2016: 22,000.
These investments both value of the investments and considered the individually and in aggregate were below our appropriateness of the valuation reporting threshold.
The valuation of the assets held in the We checked all the foreign exchange rates investment portfolio is the key driver of the applied to an independent source for Companys net asset value and investment reasonableness.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to We agreed the number of shares held for maintain proper legal title to assets by the each security to a confirmation of legal title Company could have a significant impact on received from the Companys custodian and portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return depositary BNP Paribas Securities Services.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment, when assessing the level of work to be performed.
We have performed a full scope audit of the Company.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 10.78 million 2016: 9.27 million, which is 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of net assets as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and found no reason to alter the basis of calculation used at year end.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 8.08m 2016: 6.95m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.38m 2016: 1.09m for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
44 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.54m 2016: 0.46m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 41 and pages 69 to 72, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 33 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 40 to 41 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on pages 36 to 39 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Report of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
45 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section 1158 of Responsibilities of Directors the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We understood how The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is Responsibilities set out on page 33, the Directors are responsible for complying with those frameworks through discussions with the the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied Audit Committee and Company Secretary and a review of the that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as Companys documented policies and procedures.
the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial whether due to fraud or error.
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible statements.
We identified a fraud risk with respect to for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, management override in relation to inappropriate revenue disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using journals.
We noted no issues in agreeing a sample of revenue the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either journal entries back to the audited income report or through to intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no the corresponding announcements prepared by the Company.
realistic alternative but to do so.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures Auditors responsibilities for the audit of to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with the financial statements respect to the application of the documented policies and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that We have reviewed that the Companys control environment is includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of adequate for the size and operating model of such a listed assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in investment company.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or Other matters we are required to address error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic We were appointed by the Company on 17 November 2016 to decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 October 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
We were re-appointed to Explanation as to what extent the audit was audit the financial statements on 10 November 2017. considered capable of detecting irregularities, The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous including fraud renewals and reappointments is 2 years, covering the years The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and ending 31 October 2016 to 31 October 2017. assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence were not provided to the Company and we remain independent regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, of the Company in conducting the audit.
through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and Audit Committee.
detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor Our approach was as follows: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Statutory Auditor frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined London 15 January 2018 that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
