FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Our opinion We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the In our opinion: Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to Thomas Cook Group plcs Group financial statements and parent you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: company financial statements the financial statements give a true the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 56 to 59 that and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year or mitigated: then ended: the Directors confirmation set out on page 72 in the Annual Report the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied the Directors statement set out on page 72 in the financial in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of What we have audited approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule of Thomas Cook Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2017 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in which comprise: the audit: or Group Parent company the Directors explanation set out on page 72 in the Annual Report Group income statement for the year Company balance sheet as at as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over then ended 30September 2017 what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Group statement of comprehensive Company cash flow statement for the income for the year then ended year then ended reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Group cash flow statement for theyear Company statement of changes in equity then ended for the year then ended of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Group balance sheet as at Related Notes 1 to 20 to the financial 30September2017 statements including a summary of Overview of our audit approach significant accountingpolicies Group statement of changes in equity Key audit Revenue recognition due to the susceptibility to management forthe year then ended matters override through inappropriate manual journals Leased aircraft maintenance provisions Related Notes 1 to 34 to the financial Provision for illness claims and associated recoveries from suppliers statements, including a summary of Classification of separately disclosed items significant accountingpolicies Carrying value of goodwill Recoverability of deferred tax assets The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Audit We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 20 preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting scope components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 17 components the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 85% of underlying profit from operations with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. and 86% of revenue The components subject to review scope procedures covered the Basis for opinion remainder 15% of underlying profit from operations and 14% of revenue We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Materiality Overall Group materiality of 15m which represents 5% of underlying Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under profit from operations those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
Key audit matters We are independent of the Group and Company in accordance with Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied statements of the current period and include the most significant to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
These matters included those which had We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition due to the susceptibility to management override through inappropriate manual journals 9,007m, FY16 restated: 7,810m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies page 127 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 130 to 133 The accounting for revenue is We understood the Groups revenue recognition policies and how they are applied.
Based on the audit procedures performed susceptible to management override Weidentified a change in the application of the accounting policy for revenue recognition we did not identify evidence of material through the recording of manual, on third-party commission income in the UK during theyear.
misstatements in the revenue recognised top side journal entries either in the in the current year.
Theimpact of the We have assessed the design of key controls and where appropriate, tested the operating underlying ledgers or viaconsolidation.
change in application of the accounting effectiveness of controls over revenue and the financial statement closeprocess.
policy was not material to the For a number of reporting units, as part of our overall revenue recognition testing financialstatements.
we used data analysis tools on 100% of revenue transactions in the year to test the Our journal entry testing procedures did correlation of revenue to cash receipts to verify the occurrence of revenue.
For those not identify any instances of inappropriate in-scope businesses where we did not use data analysis tools, we performed appropriate management override in the recognition alternative substantive procedures over revenue recognition including tests of details for ofrevenue across theGroup.
Other audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls included journal entry testing, placing particular focus on manual journal entries in revenue.
Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other adjustments made in the preparation ofthe financial statements.
We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue transactions around the period end date, to check that they were appropriately recorded as revenue or revenue received in advance based on the date of travel and other attributes of packageholidays.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 28locations, which covered 86% of the Groups revenue.
Leased aircraft maintenance provisions 366m, FY16 restated: 330m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies page 127 : and Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 155 to 156 The Group recognises provisions for We have evaluated the methodology and key assumptions adopted by Management in its We concluded the assumptions within the maintenance obligations in relation calculation of aircraft maintenance provisions and walked through the controls over the models used to calculate the provision to leased aircraft.
Thisinvolved the following procedures: before discounting as at 30September of aircraft maintenance provisions 2017 were appropriate and supported by Understanding the process and testing the arithmetical accuracy andintegrity of requires complex judgements and underlying evidence.
thedata in the provision models estimates to be made based on Challenging the consistency and reasonableness of the assumptions adopted.
We concluded an adjustment for credit forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates Thisincluded a review of discount rates, testing of source data in the model to risk that had been applied to the risk-free of future maintenance costs, planned information from lessors and comparison of assumptions to contract terms discount rate was not required.
This also rollover and renewal of the aircraft Testing the cost estimates of future maintenance events to the latest rate reviews applied to previous years.
In addition judgement is required incontracts, tenders or historical cost experience to correct this was recorded as a prior to determine the appropriate rate to For the timing of future maintenance, we corroborated the maintenance interval limits year adjustment.
tothe manufacturers information and tested the actual flight hours to the technical logs and the forecast flying hours to the forecast flying hour plans We have tested the completeness of the provisions by comparison to fleet and financing registers and reviewing lease agreements for hand backobligations.
We assessed the discount rate applied to the provision.
Using our valuation specialists, we determined the appropriate rate to be applied to this provision by reference to IFRS guidance in this area.
Provision for illness claims and associated recoveries from suppliers Illness provision 24.4m, FY16: 19.9m: Recoveries from suppliers 20.6m, FY16 restated : 8.0m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 155 to 156 There has been a significant increase We have evaluated the methodology and key assumptions adopted by Management Our year-end audit procedures did not in the number of illness-related claims inits calculation of provision for illness claims and walked through the controls over identify any material misstatement from customers in the UK.
Thisincluded: of provisions for illness claims and judgement is required in determining the assumptions in the underlying Challenging the consistency and reasonableness of the assumptionsadopted the level of provision required calculations were assessed Testing the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the data in the provisionmodels particularly in respect of underlying asreasonable.
Testing manual adjustments to provisions to understand their rationale andensure assumptions such as the total amount thatthey are appropriate We identified that the recoverability of of potential compensation, probable certain balances from suppliers was not In respect of recoveries we have challenged whether appropriate evidence exists to amount to be settled in respect of virtually certain at the balance sheet date.
support the recoveries, such as acknowledgement from a hotel that they were at fault and claims, and the likelihood of having We concluded that these did not result in intend to reimburse the Group, or a signed agreement in place in relation to thatclaim.
a valid defence against such claims.
a material misstatement to the financial In respect of recoveries we identified that the contractual terms indicates that liability Inaddition, there is a risk that expected statements as a whole.
We have sought evidence that signed contracts are in place with recoveries from suppliers in respect of hoteliers.
In instances where signed contracts were not available or where the recovery such claims are recognised when such is with parties that are not hotels we have sought additional evidence that there is income is not virtually certain.
110 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Classification of separately disclosed items 140m, FY16 restated : 128m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies pages 127 to 128 : and Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 135 to 136 The Group separately discloses items We have reviewed the separately disclosed items to understand the rationale for the In light of the guidelines published by in the income statement that are separate classification and have challenged the appropriateness by confirming they are ESMA we recommend that Management considered non-recurring and material material and non-recurring to warrant separate disclosure.
continues to focus on the nature of either because of their size or nature.
expenses classified as exceptional We compared separately disclosed costs incurred with the budgets approved by the Board and the disclosures provided in the Separately disclosed items are to ensure consistency with the plan.
We have also assessed consistency with the nature financial statements.
There is significant not defined by IFRS and therefore of separately disclosed items reported in the prioryear.
judgement in determining the appropriate considerable judgement is required We challenged the treatment of a number of items of expenditure that we considered type of expenditure to separate from the in determining the appropriateness would be more appropriately classified as underlying.
Consistency in We have reviewed the enhanced disclosures regarding items classified as separately items treated as separately disclosed We challenged the classification of disclosed and conclude they provide further transparency on the nature of these items isimportant to maintain comparability certain items of expenditure recorded which provides clarity on those items excluded from underlying performance of the Group.
as separately disclosed items which we believe should be recorded in underlying profit and concluded that those that remained unadjusted were not material.
Carrying value of goodwill 2,627m, FY16: 2,595m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies page 123 : and Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 139 to 140 The Group holds significant goodwill We understood the methodology applied by Management in performing its impairment test We agreed with Managements conclusion on the balance sheet.
The Groups for each of the relevant CGUs.
that no impairments were required, based business is geographically diverse and on the results of our work.
For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key inputs and assumptions would the changing geopolitical environmental need to fluctuate before an impairment was triggered and considered the likelihood of this Of the Groups goodwill, that relating and economic landscape will continue occurring.
We performed our own sensitivities on the Groups forecasts and determined to the Airline CGU is most sensitive to influence business performance whether adequate headroom remained.
to reasonable possible changes in and could impact the carrying value keyassumptions.
We performed detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs to the ofgoodwill.
valuations, including: Sensitivities have not been disclosed The annual impairment test of in the Intangible assets note to analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether goodwill includes several key areas the Group financial statements as forecast cash flows are reliable based on past experience: of estimation and judgement over the Management believe any reasonable working with our internal specialists, corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining future performance of the business change in assumptions would not cause the underlying data used in the calculation and benchmarking it against market data and and specific assumptions such as an impairment.
We concur that this comparable organisations: and discount rates and terminal growth isreasonable.
validating the growth rates assumed by comparing them to economic and rates.
Changes to these assumptions industryforecasts.
or adverse performance could have We assessed the disclosures in Note 12 against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of a significant impact on the available Assets, in particular in respect of the requirement to disclose further sensitivities for CGUs headroom and any impairment that may where a reasonably possible change in a key assumption would cause an impairment.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk were performed by the Group auditteam.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets 216m, FY16: 228m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 75 : Accounting policies page 128 : and Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 154 to 155 Judgement is required in assessing Management applies judgement in assessing the deferred tax assets to be recognised We have considered the recognition the recoverability of the deferred ineach jurisdiction, based on the application of tax law and probability that sufficient period over which deferred tax assets tax assets based on the likelihood of taxable profits are available.
will be recovered and concluded they taxable profits arising in the future werereasonable.
We performed detailed testing to assess the recoverability of deferred tax assets periods and the likelihood that the tax recognised which included: We noted full recognition of deferred tax assets will be utilised.
assets on brought forward losses and testing Managements process to prepare the deferred tax calculation: other temporary differences in Spain, assessing the period over which deferred tax assets will be utilised and corroborating resulting in an increase in the period over tosupporting forecasts of future profits: which they will be recovered.
testing adjustments made to forecast profits required to assess the level of forecast taxable profits available to support the recoverability of the deferred tax asset: and We concur with the basis of recognition audited individual transactions that gave rise to additional deferred taxassets due to supporting taxable profitforecasts.
recognised or utilised during the year.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED The risks of material misstatement to the financial statements as Of the 37 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete set out in the table above differ from those reported by Thomas Cook financial information of 20 components full scope components which Group plcs previous external auditor.
We have included provisions were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the for illness claims and associated recoveries from suppliers due to remaining 17 components specific scope components, we performed the significant increase in illness claims in the UK observed during audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that the current financial year which we considered increased the risk we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the of material misstatement.
In addition, we have included revenue significant accounts in the financial statements either because of recognition, including the risk of management override, as a key the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The audit scope of audit matter as we view revenue as an area susceptible to material these components may not have included testing of all significant misstatement.
During the course of preparing the financial statements accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage in the current year the Company identified a number of prior year of significant accounts tested for the Group.
adjustments which have been adjusted and are disclosed in Note 33 to The full and specific scope reporting components where we performed the financial statements.
In the course of our audit we have confirmed audit procedures accounted for 85% of the Groups underlying profit the appropriateness of the adjustments made.
from operations and 86% of the Groups revenue.
We have omitted the following areas in the auditors report that were Of the remaining 98 components that together represent 15% of included in the prior year: recoverability of hotel prepayments, defined the Groups underlying profit from operations, none are individually benefit pensions valuation, treasury operations and use of derivative greater than 5% of the Groups underlying profit from operations instruments, and going concern.
Whilst we agreed that these were or individually greater than 2% of the Groups revenue.
For these areas of increased risk for our audit they were not assessed as being components, we performed other procedures, including analytical areas subject to significant Management judgement or areas where review, review of the legal register and discussions with the in-house there were significant findings in our audit.
legal counsel, testing of unusual, one-off transactions and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material Tailoring the scope misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our Thomas Cook Group plcs previous external auditor performed full allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for and specific scope audit procedures on components accounting for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form 75% of the Groups underlying profit from operations and 80% of the an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
our audit scope, we take into account size based on contribution Involvement with component teams to Group underlying profit from operations and Group revenue, risk In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined profile including country risk, risks from the complexity of operations the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the and accounting treatment and judgements, controls findings and risk components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by arising from change in the period including changes to IT systems and component auditors from other EY global network firms operating key management personnel and the number of significant accounts under our instruction.
Of the 20 full scope components, audit based on performance materiality and any other known factors when procedures were performed on two of these directly by the Group assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
audit team, 17 by component auditors of the EY global network The Group structures its operations around its three geographical tour and one by a non-EY component team.
For the 13 specific scope operators and group airline, with sub-consolidations being performed components, where the work was performed by component auditors, at the tour operator locations.
Our approach to scoping has been at we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to the individual reporting unit level and the Group team has directed determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis the sub-scoping in each of the segments to ensure that we have the for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to obtain sufficient audit During the current years audit cycle, the Senior Statutory Auditor evidence as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
or other members of the Group audit team visited the component In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial teams in Northern Europe, UK and Continental Europe where substatements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage consolidations of results within that region are performed: 15 of the full of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 135 scope and specific scope reporting units are audited by these teams.
reporting components of the Group, we selected 37 components In addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the Airlines Germany covering entities within the four reporting segments outlined team.
In addition to our visits the Senior Statutory Auditor and other above, which represent the principal reporting units within the members of the Group team attended the year-end closing meetings Group.
This constituted 12 country component teams and the group with local management.
engagement team and included one non-EY component auditor to perform full scope procedures over one reporting unit and specific scope procedures over accounts we concluded were significant at one further reporting unit.
112 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These visits involved meeting with our component team to discuss and Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining direct its audit approach, reviewing and understanding the significant audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is audit findings in response to the risk areas including leased aircraft undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
maintenance provisions, provisions for illness claims and revenue The performance materiality set for each component is based on recognition, holding meetings with local management and obtaining the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole updates on local regulatory matters.
The primary team interacted and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible components was 1m to 3.8m.
for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the Reporting threshold additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.75m, which is set at 5% of audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, and in forming our audit opinion.
in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Materiality We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
OTHER INFORMATION We determined materiality for the Group to be 15m, which is 5% of The other information comprises the information included in the Annual underlying profit from operations.
We believe that underlying profit Report including the Overview, the Strategic Report and the Directors from operations is the most relevant performance measure to the Report set out on pages 1 to 108, other than the financial statements stakeholders of the Group.
and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Starting basis Adjustments Materiality Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
P rofit from Separately disclosed U nderlying profit operations items impacting profit from operations In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 231m for the from operations 99m 322m excluding responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, year ended Less amortisation of amortisation consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent 30September business combination of business with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit 2017 intangibles 8m combination or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such See Note 7 to the intangibles basis material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we financial statements formateriality M ateriality of 16m are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement 5% of materiality in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other basis information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are The above materiality is our reassessment based on the final results required to report that fact.
Our audit was conducted at the lower preliminary We have nothing to report in this regard.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 7.5m, reflecting that this is our first period as auditor of Thomas Cook Group plc.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our Responsibilities of Directors responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of out on pages 65 to 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the other information where we conclude that those items meet the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a following conditions: true and fair view in accordance, and for such internal control as the Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 73 the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced fraud or error.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for In preparing the financial statements the Directors are responsible Shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model for assessing the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and in the audit: or using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either Audit Committee reporting set out on page 74 the section intends to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial Governance Code set out on page 55 the parts of the Directors statements statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Act 2006. taken on the basis of these financial statements.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered the audit: capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through accordance with applicable legal requirements.
designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond Matters on which we are required to report by exception appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the and management.
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Our approach was as follows: We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that if, in our opinion: the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance from branches not visited by us: or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement and regulations which may have an effect on the determination with the accounting records and returns: or of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those regulations not made: or relating to health and safety and employee matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require We understood how Thomas Cook Group plc is complying with those for our audit.
frameworks by making enquiries of Management, enterprise risk and internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Group legal counsel.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee and Board and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
114 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to RICHARD WILSON SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with Management from various parts of the business to understand for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also London considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by Management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of 21 November 2017 analysts.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, Notes: deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Thomas Cook Group plc website is the responsibility of programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
These procedures included testing manual journals and 2.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding, we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, enterprise risk and internal audit, segment management and Management at full and specific scope entities: and focused testing, as referred to in the Key audit matters section above.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Company on 9 February 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments is one year, covering the year ending 30 September 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115
