Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Diploma plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes In Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Group Accounting Policies: and the related notes 1 to 29 and notes a to d to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: recoverability of goodwill and assessment for impairment: accounting for acquisitions: and appropriateness of inventory obsolescence provisioning.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.2m which was determined on the basis of approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Scoping We have performed full scope audits at 13 locations, with an additional nine locations subject to specified audit procedures which address each of the significant balances and key audit risks within these entities.
Together, the work at these locations represents the principal business units of the Group and accounts for 81% of the Groups revenues and 83% of the Groups operating profit.
Significant changes There have been no other significant changes in our approach in the year.
in our approach Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern We confirm that we have basis of accounting contained within page 65 to the financial statements and the Directors nothing material to add statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on or draw attention to in page 32. respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We agreed with the Directors relation to: adoption of the going concern basis of accounting the disclosures on pages 32 to 35 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are and we did not identify any being managed or mitigated: such material uncertainties.
the Directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the However, because not all principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future events or conditions future performance, solvency or liquidity: can be predicted, this the Directors statement on page 65 to the financial statements about whether they statement is not a guarantee considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them as to the Groups ability to and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys continue as a going concern.
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 32 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of goodwill and assessment for impairment Key audit matter description As at the year end, the Group held an aggregate of 122.8m of goodwill 2016: 115.2m on the Statement of Financial Position and, as such, it is the most significant asset class.
This goodwill has been recognised in respect of acquisitions that the Group has undertaken in the current and previous years.
We consider that the carrying value of goodwill is a key area due to the judgemental inputs involved in the assessment for impairment.
There are a number of such inputs used when assessing for impairment, including the determination of the discount rate, the determination of projected cash flows which includes assumptions relating to medium and long term growth rates and gross margins and the sensitivities applied.
Refer also to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 88 for the Group Accounting Policies and note 10 of the consolidated financial statements page 74.
How the scope of our We have obtained managements goodwill impairment review calculations and assessed the audit responded to the mechanical accuracy of the model.
Furthermore, we challenged the assumptions and inputs key audit matter used in the impairment model including the revenue growth rates and margins, discount rates, long term growth rates and the sensitivities applied and disclosed.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading performance and the Board-approved budgets and consulting with our valuation specialists who benchmarked assumptions such as the discount rate to external macroeconomic and market data.
The long term growth rate used in the cash flow projections was assessed to check that it did not materially differ to the average long term growth rate in any territories in which the Group operates.
We have also performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment model to determine if a reasonable possible adverse change in the key assumptions, results in the carrying amount exceeding the recoverable amount for any cash generating unit.
96 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Key observations We concluded that the assumptions and judgements set out in managements model are reasonable and we concur with the Directors assessment that there is no impairment.
We also considered the disclosures within the consolidated financial statements to be appropriate.
Accounting for acquisitions Key audit matter description The Group has made one material acquisition in the year, being Abacus.
The total combined consideration for this acquisition was 14.1m and an additional 6.1m of goodwill and 7.8m of intangible assets were recognised.
The judgements used in determining the value of the goodwill and intangible assets and the allocation between these asset classes could, if performed inaccurately, lead to a material misstatement.
There is significant judgement and complexity involved in the allocation of excess consideration over net assets of the acquiree between the fair value of intangible assets and remaining goodwill.
For the fair value of intangible assets, this includes estimates for growth rates, discount rates and retention rates for supplier relationships.
Management must exercise judgement to accurately measure the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date.
This includes, for example, assessing the amounts required for any additional inventory or receivables provisions.
Refer also to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 88 for the Group Accounting Policies and note 22 of the consolidated financial statements page 82.
How the scope of our We have obtained managements calculations for the accounting for the acquisition and we audit responded to the checked the mathematical accuracy of each acquisition model.
We also assessed the key audit matter adjustments to assets and liabilities in order to bring them to fair value and have held discussions with management in order to challenge the completeness of these adjustments.
In order to assess the accuracy of the acquired intangible assets valuation, we have reviewed the methodology applied in managements calculation and challenged the assumptions behind the calculation including the growth rates, discount rates and supplier retention rates.
We have involved our own internal specialists to assist in our assessment.
We have reviewed the disclosures included within note 11 of the consolidated financial statements page 75.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions and judgements used to determine the value of intangible assets acquired and the fair value adjustments made to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity are reasonable.
We have not identified any material misstatements in the accounting for acquisitions and consider the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements to be appropriate.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Appropriateness of inventory obsolescence provisioning Key audit matter description The valuation of inventory as at 30 September 2017 is 76.1m 2016: 66.8m, recorded net of a provision of 8.3m 2016: 7.8m.
High levels of inventory are held across the Group, which gives rise to a greater risk of there being slow moving or obsolete lines of inventory.
Therefore, we have determined that there is a key risk that inventory is recorded below its net realisable value due to insufficient obsolescence provisions.
Management judgement is required in determining the completeness of inventory provisions and making an assessment of their adequacy, considering the age and volumes of inventory relative to expected usage.
We have identified a risk of fraud in relation to this judgement.
Changes to these assumptions could result in a material change in the carrying value of inventory and the associated movement recorded in the income statement.
Refer also to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 88 for the Group Accounting Policies and note 15 of the consolidated financial statements page 77.
How the scope of our We evaluated the recorded inventory obsolescence provision by obtaining managements audit responded to the workings and independently recalculating the provision in line with their stated policy.
key audit matter We challenged the underlying assumptions and completeness of the provision by considering the age and volumes of inventory relative to expected usage.
Any aged inventory lines which were excluded from managements calculation were also challenged in order to further verify completeness of the provision.
Managements historical ability to estimate the required inventory obsolescence provision was assessed by comparing write-offs during the period to the prior period provision.
Furthermore, we compared the actual sales value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
Key observations We are satisfied that the provision for inventory obsolescence is not materially misstated.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.2m 2016: 2.7m.
Basis for determining Materiality is based on a calculation of approximately 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax PBT.
materiality Rationale for the PBT has been chosen as the basis for materiality as this is the measure by which stakeholders benchmark applied and the market assess the wider performance of the entity and is the key metric that current and potential investors monitor when making their financial decisions.
98 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Audit of components are performed at a materiality level not exceeding 50% 2016: 50% of Group materiality 1.6m, 2016: 1.35m.
4.96 3.2m Group materiality 1.6m Component materiality up to 0.16m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.00 66.8m PBT Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 2016: 130,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Having assessed the facts and circumstances of the Group and the prior history of misstatements, we determined that an increase in this threshold from prior year was appropriate.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and it environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level and where these are most likely to occur in the business.
Based on this assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 13 2016: 12 locations, with the increase from the prior year due to the inclusion of DHG Australia as a full scope audit following the acquisition of Abacus by the Group during the period.
Each of these 13 locations was subject to a full scope audit.
An additional nine 2016: eight locations were subject to specified audit procedures which address each of the significant balances and key audit risks within these entities.
Together the work at these locations represents the principal business units of the Group and accounts for 81% 2016: 75% of the Groups revenue and 83% 2016: 80% of the Groups operating profit.
The Group audit team has designed and implemented a country visit programme so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits the component locations to hold discussions with the lead partner, review their working papers, conclude on any findings an attend close out meetings with local management.
Each year this programme of visits includes the three most significant territories being the US, Canada and UK.
Where no visits are carried out the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the team has held discussions with the lead partner and attended close out meetings by phone.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or specified audit procedures.
Operating Revenue profit 50% Full audit scope 52% Full audit scope 31% specified audit procedures 31% specified audit procedures 19% Desktop preview 17% Desktop preview Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in information included in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
100 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain respect of these matters.
disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2008 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointing of the firm is ten years, covering the years ended 2008 to 2017.
Following a full tender process the Board intends to appoint  LLP as its auditor for the financial year ending 30 September 2018, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 20 November 2017 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiaries of Diploma PLC Registered Registered Office Office Address Address 2 Life Sciences Krempfast Limited A 1 Somagen Diagnostics Inc. F Betaduct Limited A AMT Electrosurgery Inc. V Hawco Limited A 1 Vantage Endoscopy Inc. V Abbeychart Limited A 1 Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited X HA Wainwright Limited A 1 Diagnostic Solutions Pty Limited X Microtherm Limited A 1 Diploma Healthcare Group NZ Limited Z Hawco Refrigeration Limited A 3 1 Techno-Path Distribution Limited J Microtherm UK Limited A 1 Abacus ALS Pty Limited X IS Group Europe Limited A 1 Abacus ALS Limited Z Specialty Fasteners Limited A 1 A1-CBISS Limited A Specialty Fasteners & Components Limited A 1 a1-envirosciences GmbH G Interconnect Components Services Group Limited A 1 1 a1-Envirosciences Limited A Cabletec Flexibles Limited A 1 Hitek Limited A Intermediate holding companies 1 Hitek Group Limited A Diploma Holdings PLC A Seals Diploma Holdings Inc. C HB Sealing Products Inc. D Pride Limited A J Royal US, Inc. C Diploma Australia Holdings Limited A HKX Inc. E Diploma Canada Holdings Limited A All Seals Inc. B Diploma Overseas Limited A RTD Seals Corp. C Napier Group Limited A HB Sealing Products Limited W Williamson Cliff Limited A 3 M Seals A S S Newlandglebe Limited A 3 M Seals AB T Diploma Germany Holding GmbH H 2 M Seals NCL Limited A Diploma Canada Healthcare Inc F 2 EDCO Seal and Supply Limited A Diploma Australia Healthcare Pty Limited X Diploma Tianjin Trading Co. Limited AB Diploma Australia Seals Pty Limited X FPE Seals Limited A 1 1 Dormant company.
Seals Limited A 2 These subsidiaries, both of which are incorporated in England, are exempt from 1 Swan Seals Aberdeen Limited A therequirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Act.
FPE Seals BV P 3 These subsidiaries are 90% owned, all other subsidiaries are wholly owned.
3 Kentek Oy K 3 Allsubsidiaries are owned through ordinary shares.
ZAO Kentek O 3 Kentek Eesti Ou L Registered Office address 3 A 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX, UK.
SIA Kentek Latvija M B 5716 Corsa Avenue, Ste 110, Westlake Village, CA 91362-7354, USA.
3 UAB Kentek Lietuva N C 1201 Orange Street, Ste 600 One Commerce Center, Wilmington, fide 19899, USA.
Kubo Tech AG Q E 4505 Pacific Highway East, Ste C2, Fife, WA 98424-2638, USA.
Kubo Form AG Q F 3400 First Canadian Centre, 350-7th Avenue SW, Calgary, Alberta T2P 3N9, Canada.
Kubo Tech GmbH R G Eichsfelder Strasse 1, 40595, Dsseldorf, Germany.
West Coast Industrial Supplies Pty Limited Y I Rotwandweg 5, D-82024, Taufkirchen Munchen, Germany.
West Coast Industrial Supplies New Caledonia SAS AA J Fort Henry Business Park, Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland.
Controls L Laki tn 16, Kristiine linnaosa, Tallinn, Harju maakond, 10621, Estonia.
IS Rayfast Limited A N Vilniaus r. sav.
Bukikio k. Biiuli g. 29, Lithuania.
IS Motorsport Inc. C O Dom 2, Liter B, Proezd Mebeljyj, 197374, St. Petersburg, Russia.
P Industrieterrein Dombosch 1, Effweg 38, 4941 VP Ramsdonksveer, the Netherlands.
1 Amfast Limited A Q Im Langhag 5, 8307 Illnau-Effretikon, Switzerland.
Clarendon Specialty Fasteners Limited A R Lederergasse 67, AT-4020 Linz, Austria.
Clarendon Specialty Fasteners, Inc. B T Industrivagen 17, SE-302, 41 Halmstad, Sweden.
1 Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited A U 10, allee du Vivier, 72700 Allonnes, France.
1 V 333 Bay St. Suite 2400, Toronto, Ontario M5H 2T6, Canada.
Cabletec Interconnect Component Systems Limited A W 226 Lockhart Road, Barrie, Ontario, L4N 9G8, Canada.
Sommer GmbH H X 46 Albert Street, Preston, Victoria, 3072, Australia.
Y 72 Platinum Street, Crestmead, Queensland, 4132, Australia.
Filcon Electronic GmbH I Z Office of Bendall & Cant Ltd, Southern Cross Building, 61 High Street, Auckland, Ascome SARL U New Zealand.
AA 22 Avenue des Gomtres Pionniers, ZAC PANDA 98835, Dumba, Cablecraft Limited A New Caledonia.
2 Birch Valley Plastics Limited A AB 18 Fuyuandao Road, Wuqing Development Area, Tianjin, China.
102 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017
