Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Grainger plc Materiality: Group financial 16.0m 2016:15.0m statements as a whole 1% 2016: 1% of total assets the Company for the year ended 30 September 2017 which Coverage 100% 2016:100% of comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Group total assets Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Recurring risks Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Valuation of investment properties the Parent Company Statement of Financial Position and the Recoverability of inventories Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the New related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1.
Parent company Recoverability of parent companys In our opinion: investment in subsidiaries the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for of risks ofmaterial misstatement the year then ended: Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the Group financial statements have been properly prepared judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements and include the most significant assessed risks of Standards as adopted by the European Union: material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified the parent Company financial statements have been properly by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We the financial statements have been prepared in accordance summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of together with our key audit procedures to address those the IAS Regulation.
matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 6 February 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 30 September 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of investment properties Subjective valuation Our procedures in respect of all property types 391.0m: 2016: 261.3m The valuation approach adopted by the identified included: Directors varies between portfolios: Refer to page 55 Audit Committee Report, Our property expertise: Using our own pages 95-98 critical accounting estimates and For the Tricomm portfolio, valuation is property valuation specialist to assist us judgements and pages 111-112 accounting based on a discounted cash flow model in assessing the methodologies and key policy and financial disclosures.
produced by an external valuer.
There is assumptions used in the valuations adopted a risk that the assumptions of house price by the Directors for use in the financial inflation HPI and discount rates could statements: be inappropriate which could lead to a Sensitivity analysis: Performing sensitivity material misstatement in valuation.
analyses over the assumptions and For properties let into the private rental considering the outcomes with reference to market, valuation is derived by applying a benchmarks to identify the key assumptions gross initial yield to the estimated rental affecting the valuation.
Yield is based on market evidence and an inherently Our procedures in respect of the Tricomm unobservable judgement in respect of portfolio included: rental growth.
There is a risk that applying an inappropriate yield could lead to a Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the material difference in valuation.
HPI assumption included in the discounted Property held in the core residential cash flow model to market indices and the portfolio is valued by determining vacant discount rates to market information including possession VP value and applying a gilts and benchmarked risk premiums.
discount to reflect the fact that the property is tenanted.
Both VP value and the discount Our procedures in respect of the private rented applied are estimated with reference to sector blocks included: comparable market evidence and the Groups own experience, which in some Our property valuation expertise: Critically cases may be limited.
This means that assessing the yield rates applied using our the valuation is inherently subjective understanding of the nature of the assets and susceptible to misstatement.
and comparing to available market data.
Our procedures in respect of property held in UK residential portfolios included: Control design and observation: Assessing the design of the Directors valuation process and observing that supporting evidence was obtained for a sample of properties: Our property valuation expertise: Using our property valuation specialist, assessing the degree of challenge, quality of evidence presented and conclusions reached in the Groups regional valuation meetings with their external valuer: Our sector experience: Challenging the inputs used in the valuations including challenging comparing to comparable transactions.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc continued 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks ofmaterial misstatement continued The risk Our response Incorrect data Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Groups Valuations are based on data held by the disclosures about the sensitivity of fair values to changes in-house surveying team, in some cases in key assumptions reflected the uncertainties inherent in corroborated by inspection by external valuers.
This data is regularly updated to include new properties and reflect changes in condition Data integrity: We assessed the completeness and accuracy of of existing properties.
There is therefore a the property information provided by the Group to the external risk that it may not be updated correctly.
valuers by agreeing key inputs, such as address, rental income, Errors or omissions in the data could result occupancy and current tenancy details to property contracts in inappropriate valuations.
Our results We found the estimated valuation of investment properties to be acceptable.
Recoverability of inventories Subjective valuation In addition to the procedures set out in respect of core tradingproperties Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and portfolio investment properties, our procedures for Net realisable value provision: net realisable value NRV.
The Directors residential properties included: 8.1m: 2016: 3.2m assessment of NRV of inventory differs between residential properties and Historical comparisons: Comparing the yearend valuation developments: Refer to page 55 Audit with the sales prices achieved for property sales after the Committee Report, pages balance sheet date.
95-98 critical accounting For residential trading property NRV is estimates and judgements and based on vacant possession VP value For development trading properties our procedures included: page 116 accounting policy which is estimated with reference to and financial disclosures.
comparable market evidence and the Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging thekey assumptions Groups own experience, which in some in the Groups plans and forecasts using third party data and cases may be limited.
This means that the Groups historic experience of costs and revenues: the valuation is inherently subjective and Sensitivity analysis: Challenging the key assumptions in the susceptible to misstatement.
Groups plans and forecasts using third party data and the For development trading property where Groups historic experience of costs and revenues: the intention is to develop further prior to Comparing valuations: Where the intention is to sell without sale NRV is the forecast selling price less further development, comparing the carrying value of inventory the remaining costs to complete and sell.
to the market value of the site in its current condition.
There is a risk that the total forecast profits on a development may be overestimated Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Groups and an impairment may not be recorded.
disclosures about the sensitivity of the net realisable value This risk is highest for developments where provision to changes in key assumptions reflected the the current carrying value exceeds the uncertainties inherent in property valuations and the Groups current market value.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the net realisable value of inventories to be acceptable.
Recoverability of parent Subjective valuation Our procedures included: companys investment The carrying amount of the parent companys in subsidiaries investments in subsidiaries represents Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of 899.6m: 2016: 893.3m 92.3% 2016: 93.5% of the Companys total investments with the relevant subsidiaries prior year financial assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high statements and current year draft balance sheets to identify Refer to page 55 Audit risk of significant misstatement or subject whether their net assets, being an approximation of their Committee Report, page 138 to significant judgement.
However, due recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount.
accounting policy and page to their materiality in the context of the 139 financial disclosures.
parent company financial statements, this is Our results considered to be the area that had the greatest We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the effect on our overall parent company audit.
investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3.
Our application of materiality and 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern an overview of the scope of our audit We are required to report to you if: Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was we have anything material to add or draw attention to set at 16.0m 2016: 15.0m, determined with reference to in relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 to the a benchmark of Group total assets of which it represents financial statements on the use of the going concern basis approximately 1% 2016: 1%.
of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast In addition, we applied lower materiality of 3.0m 2016: 3.1m significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that to the specific income statement items which depict the trading basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date performance of the Group, which exclude valuation movements of approval of the financial statements: or and taxation.
We believe misstatement of these specific income if the same statement is materially inconsistent with our statement items of a lesser amount than materiality for the audit knowledge.
financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the Companys members assessment of the We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial performance of the Group.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report Materiality for the parent company financial statements as The Directors are responsible for the other information presented a whole was set at 16.0m 2016: 15.0m determined with in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our reference to a benchmark of Company net assets of which it opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other represented 5% 2016: 4%.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.48m conclusion thereon.
2016: 0.45m, in addition to other identified misstatements Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was audit work, the information therein is materially misstated a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total material misstatements in the other information.
Group assets 2016: 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: Total Assets Group Materiality we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic 1,767.0m 2016: 1,612.9m 16.0m 2016: 15.0m report and the directors report: 16.0m in our opinion the information given in those reports for the Whole financial financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and statements materiality in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance 2016: 15.0m with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report 0.48m In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Misstatements to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with reported to the the Companies Act 2006. audit committee 2016: 0.45m Group materiality 16.0m Total Assets 1,767.0m Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc continued 5.
We have nothing to report on the other 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters information in the Annual Report continued on which we are required to report by exception Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial if, in our opinion: statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent attention to in relation to: Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement received from branches not visited by us: or on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment the parent Company financial statements and the part of of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not would threaten its business model, future performance, in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or solvency and liquidity: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing law are not made: or these risks and explaining how they are being managed we have not received all the information and explanations and mitigated: and we require for our audit.
the Directors explanation in the Viability Statements of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what We have nothing to report in these respects.
period they have done so and why they considered that period 7.
Respective responsibilities to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they Directors responsibilities have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 79, continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial over the period of their assessment, including any related statements including being satisfied that they give a true and disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to or assumptions.
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going Corporate governance disclosures concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless We are required to report to you if: they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Auditors responsibilities audit and the Directors statement that they consider that Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole the financial statements as a whole are free from material is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable position and performance, business model and strategy: or assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, We have nothing to report in these respects.
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 30 November 2017 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87
