Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the CYBG PLC Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The CYBG PLC financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 September 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2017 Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2017 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended year ended 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 Related notes 1.1 to 5.5 to the financial statements Related notes 6.1 to 6.6 to the financial statements Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These have been cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.. 178 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 19 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 71 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 191 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 125 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Payment Protection Insurance PPI and other conduct related provisioning.
SME lending impairment provisions Revenue recognition Effective interest method accounting.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group and Parent.
Our Group audit scope included all CYBG PLC subsidiaries.
Materiality Overall Group materiality was 17m which represents 0.5% of shareholders equity.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 179 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee Payment Protection Insurance PPI We considered the results of the testing We communicated to the Audit and other conduct related provisioning of key controls operating within the PPI Committee that provisions for PPI and other conduct case handling and redress and other conduct related Please refer to pages 79 to 87 Audit recording processes which supported the matters held by the Group were Committee report, pages 219 to 222 data used in the determination of key reasonably estimated.
We noted that Provisions for liabilities and charges note, provision assumptions.
We found that we the Banks disclosures describe the pages 237 to 238 Contingent liabilities could place reliance on these controls.
uncertainties and risks associated with and commitments note.
determining the provisions, and the We examined the models used by the The Group has material provisions relating sensitivity of the provisions to changes Directors to determine a best estimate to its conduct towards its past and present in key assumptions.
As disclosed on page of the provisions for mis-sold payment customers relating to past PPI sales and 222 in Note 3.14, we also noted that protection insurance PPI and other other conduct related matters.
148m of the Capped Indemnity remains products.
undrawn, and that this provides a level of The Group benefits from a conduct We assessed the appropriateness of PPI protection to the Group should future indemnity deed granted by its former provision model assumptions, including costs relating to PPI claims exceed the parent, under which 90.3% of remediation case volumes, redress per claim, uphold Directors estimate.
costs for past conduct issues can be rates and case processing costs, which reimbursed up to a capped total amount.
The estimations of provisions for PPI were informed by the Groups historic The Group contributes 9.7% of such costs.
claims and other conduct related matters experience.
While this limits the impact on the are inherently uncertain and required Groups results and equity, unutilised We tested the clerical accuracy of the significant judgements to be made by the amounts remaining under the indemnity Directors provision calculations and Directors.
The Directors best estimate are an important factor in the assessment sensitivity analysis.
for future PPI claims and associated of the Groups overall financial position.
costs involved probability weighting a In evaluating the Directors number of possible outcomes.
The most In March 2017, the FCA published Policy provision assumptions, we examined significant assumption is the volume of Statement 17 3 containing its final rules correspondence during the year between future, new PPI complaints, details of and guidance on PPI complaints.
The the Group and the FCA, and regulatory which are reported on page 220 in Policy Statement confirmed a new rule pronouncements, such as PS 17 3.
We Note 3.14. that sets a deadline of 29 August 2019 compared the Directors assumptions for consumers to complain about the way to our own expectations based on the We determined an independent range of they were sold PPI.
During the year, the Groups historical experience, current reasonable future PPI cost outcomes Group has also made progress with its trends and our industry knowledge.
using the Groups historical experience of past business review for other conduct PPI claims, and we compared this range related matters.
We found no material differences in this comparison.
Significant judgements and assumptions are required to be made by the Directors We communicated to the Audit in relation to the timing, volume and Committee that provisions for other quantum of future redress payments conduct related matters, had been and associated administration costs that determined based on appropriate will be required.
The most significant evidence and were fairly stated at assumption is total anticipated future PPI 30 September 2017. complaint volumes.
The effects of these judgements are material, so this was considered to be a significant audit risk.
180 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee SME lending impairment provisions We tested controls over impairment We communicated to the Audit calculations and the generation of Committee that the impairment models, Please refer to pages 79 to 87 Audit portfolio data for use in these calculations and assumptions employed Committee report, and pages 210 to 212 calculations.
These controls included by the Group were reasonable as at Impairment provisions on credit those covering the identification and 30 September 2017 and that these exposures note.
assessment of potentially impaired resulted in impairment provisions that The majority of the Groups non-retail loans, the transfer of data from source were appropriately estimated.
We also lending portfolio relates to small and systems to impairment models, and concluded that the disclosures presented medium sized enterprises SMEs which the calculation of specific impairment were in compliance with IFRSs.
can be vulnerable to both domestic and provisions.
We determined that we We independently determined a range foreign market volatility.
could rely on these controls for the of appropriate outcomes for the level of purposes of our audit.
Estimating the Groups collective and incurred but not reported losses existing specific provisioning is subjective, requires We performed loan file testing on a in the Groups loan portfolio.
The the Directors to exercise significant sample of impaired loans to determine Directors post model adjustments judgement, and incorporates the use whether the specific provisions held by resided within our range of acceptable of various assumptions.
the Group were, in our judgement, outcomes.
Our approach Due to the materiality of the provisions We assessed and challenged the included the use of our own valuation and level of judgment involved, this was calculations and related judgements for a specialists to independently test key considered to be a significant audit risk.
sample of specific impairment provisions assumptions underpinning a sample and did not identify any material of collateral values used in provision differences to the provisions determined calculations.
We evaluated the completeness of SME loans assessed for impairment by the Directors and examined key loans where no impairment provisions were held.
We tested the collective impairment provision model by examining the logic of the model calculations, the accuracy of data inputs, and the appropriateness of key assumptions and loan ratings used within the model.
We tested the Directors judgements in determining overlays to the collective impairment models for appropriateness of methodology and accuracy of calculation.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 181 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee Revenue recognition We gained an understanding of key As set out on page 209 in Note 3.5, Effective Interest method controls and assessed the appropriateness the Group has recorded 32m of net of key assumptions used within the deferred income in relation to fee Please refer to page 198 net interest Groups effective interest model, primarily income and expenses deferred under income accounting policy.
the average loan life assumption, which the Groups effective interest method For certain product fees, the Group we corroborated against underlying loan of accounting.
We communicated to operates a model to recognise fee income data, our knowledge of market conditions the Audit Committee that the effective included within interest income under and observed practice in the UK interest adjustments recognised the effective interest method.
in interest income had been effective interest method spreads the appropriately derived.
We performed data integrity testing on recognition of product fee income over the key sources of information feeding We also communicated that the the life of a financial instrument, as these the effective interest calculation.
This assumptions made by the Directors were are in substance an integral part of the involved sample testing data from reasonable in the context of the Groups overall yield.
business systems to the loan data used in lending portfolios and current observable Effective interest models are sensitive the model and vice-versa.
to judgements about the expected lives We examined the journals recording the of the product portfolios to which they deferral and amortisation of fee income relate.
Due to the complexity of to verify that the revenue deferred and calculations, the degree of judgement amortised over the life of the underlying exercised by the Directors in respect loans was appropriate and aligned with of the expected lives of the product the effective interest model output.
portfolios and the different products for which fees are recognised, this is considered a significant audit risk.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to recoverability of the deferred tax asset.
There was a significant reduction in the valuation of the Groups deferred tax asset in the prior financial year and consequently this was not considered a key audit matter in the current year.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Audit materiality Audit materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Audit materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined audit materiality for the Group to be 17m 2016: 17m which approximates 0.5% of the total equity attributable to owners of the Parent company Group equity.
The reason for selecting this measure as the basis for our audit materiality consideration is that the Group was loss making in recent financial periods.
Given the importance of equity to the Groups solvency and regulatory capital resources, we judged equity to be the most relevant basis for setting audit materiality.
Performance materiality Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality should be set at 75% 2016: 50% of our audit materiality, namely 12.75m 2016: 8.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our previous experience as auditors of the Group, from which we concluded that there is a lower expectation of material financial statement inaccuracies due to the effective control environment and only minor audit differences resulting from our prior and current year work.
We set performance materiality at a more conservative percentage of 50% in the prior year as 2016 was CYBG PLCs first year reporting as a publicly listed company.
182 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Reporting threshold This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.85m 2016: 0.85m, which is set at 5% of our audit materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 175, including the Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 37, the Financial Results set out on pages 38 to 48, Governance set out on pages 49 to 126, the Risk Report set out on pages 127 to 175, and Additional Information set out on pages 249 to 263 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 126 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 79 to 87 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 62 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 183 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 126, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, is the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect of fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our audit approach in respect of irregularities, including fraud, was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant were the regulations, licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We understood how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for legal and compliance matters.
We also: reviewed correspondence between the Group and UK regulatory bodies: reviewed minutes of the Board and Executive Risk Committee: and gained an understanding of the Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the Boards approval of the Groups governance framework and the Boards review of the Groups risk management framework RMF and internal control processes.
184 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered performance and incentive plan targets and their potential to influence management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of investors.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved inquiries of legal counsel, executive management, internal audit, and focused testing, as referred to in the Key Audit Matters section above.
The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of specialists where appropriate.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address: We were appointed as CYBG PLCs External Auditor and signed an engagement letter on 14 January 2016, prior to CYBG PLC becoming the holding company of the Group on its demerger from NAB and IPO in February 2016.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Steven Robb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Leeds 20 November 2017 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the CYBG PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 185
