Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc Opinion In our opinion: The Sage Group plcs Group financial statements and parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Sage Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2017 Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Company accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 7 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 52 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 52 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 104 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 58 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
110 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition Intacct acquisition provisional valuation of acquired intangible assets NEW in 2017 Carrying value of goodwill Classification of restructuring costs as non-recurring, as a result of the Groups business transformation Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further five components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 98% of adjusted Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations and 89% of Revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 21.4m which represents 5% of adjusted Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations.
Profit before tax for continuing and discontinued operations adjusted for non-recurring items as defined in the Our application of materiality section of this report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts ofthe engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee At each full and specific scope audit location with significant revenue streams: Based on the procedures Revenue recognition performed, we did not identify any We performed walkthroughs of each significant class of revenue transactions and Refer to the Audit and Risk evidence of material misstatement assessed the design effectiveness of key controls.
For three components we Committee Report page 78 : and in the revenue recognised in the tested the operating effectiveness of controls.
notes 2.1 and 3.1 of the Group year nor in amounts deferred at financial statements For products and services where the risks and rewards are transferred over a 30September 2017. period of time, we tested a sample of transactions to ensure that the amount The Group has reported ofrevenue was accurately calculated based on the state of completion of the continuing revenues of 1,715m contract and recognised in the appropriate period.
We focused on Our procedures in relation to inappropriate accounting for complex one-off the recognition of revenue as the arrangements, changes to existing products and new products or services timing of revenue recognition and ensured that the policies adopted were appropriate and in accordance with the its presentation in the income requirements of IFRS.
statement are subject to inherentcomplexities in the For bundled products, we tested on a sample basis, that 1 the calculation of the software industry.
fair value attributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable, and 2 that the allocation of any discount was consistent with the relative fair value of each We identified three specific risks element of the bundle.
of fraud and error in respect of We performed other substantive, transactional testing and data analysis improper revenue recognition procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
Where given the nature of the Groups practicable, at component level we performed testing over full populations of products and services as follows: transactions using data analysis.
Inappropriate cut-off and We performed testing of journal entries to identify any instances of revenue deferral of revenue: beingrecorded via journals and, where relevant, to establish whether a service Inappropriate accounting hadbeen provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support the forcomplex one-off revenue recognised.
arrangements:changes to We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure of the accounting existing products and new policies for revenue recognition in notes 1 and 3.1 respectively.
products or services: and At each full and specific scope audit location with significant revenue streams eight Inappropriate allocation components we performed the audit procedures set out above which covered 89% ofrevenue between of the Groups revenue.
We also performed review procedures in seven locations, thecomponents of which covered a further 8% of the Groups revenue.
There is no change in the risk profile in the current year.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 111 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee We walked through the controls over the valuation of the acquired intangible assets The provisional valuation Intacct acquisition - and understood managements process to comply with IFRS 3 Business ofacquired intangible assets provisional valuation of Combinations and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
acquired intangible assets NEW in 2017 With involvement of an EY business valuation specialist, we The required IFRS 3 disclosures forbusiness combinations, Refer to the Audit and Risk 1 assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of managements including the provisional nature Committee Report page 79 : specialists: and ofthe fair value of the assets and andnote 16.1 of the Group liabilities acquired, are disclosed 2 evaluated and concluded on the results of managements and its specialists financial statements innote 16.1 of the consolidated procedures to determine the preliminary fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
On 3 August 2017, the Group financial statements.
This included: acquired Intacct Corporation evaluating the completeness and existence of intangible assets recognised: for627m.
assessment of the valuation methodologies applied: We focused on this area given the assessment of the key assumptions made by management, such as customer Group has recognised intangible churn, royalty rates and discount rates, compared to our independently calculated assets relating to customer range: relationships 97m, technology 44m and Brand 1m as part of benchmarking the assumptions used with historic Sage acquisitions and other the provisional purchase price transactions in the sector: and allocation.
Significant judgement performing sensitivity analysis to understand the extent to which changes in is involved in assessing the keyassumptions may give rise to a materially different valuation for the preliminary fair values of intangibleasset.
These In addition, we assessed the prospective financial information utilised in the valuations directly impact the valuation models based on the viewpoint of a market participant as defined by IFRS amount of goodwill recognised on 13 Fair Value Measurement.
This included evaluating the historical accuracy of acquisition and are based on forecasting, current performance and adjustments made to pre acquisition due valuation techniques built, in part, diligence forecast numbers.
on assumptions around the future performance of the business.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 16.1 in the Group financial statements with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The purchase price allocation exercise will be finalised in the Audit procedures on the provisional valuation of the acquired intangible assets were year ending 30 September 2018. performed by the Primary audit team.
112 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee We challenged managements assumptions used in its models for assessing the Based on the results of our work, Carrying value of goodwill recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill.
We focused on the appropriateness of we agree with managements Refer to the Audit and Risk CGU identification, methodology applied to estimate recoverable values, discount conclusion that no impairment of Committee Report page 78 : and rates, and forecast cash flows.
Specifically: goodwill is required in the current notes 1 and 6.1 of the Group year.
We agree with management We have validated that the CGUs identified, including the combination of Malaysia financial statements that no reasonably possibly and Singapore into a single Asia CGU, are the lowest level at which management change in assumptions would We focused on this area due the monitors goodwill.
result in a material impairment in size of the goodwill balance We tested the methodology applied in the value in use calculation as compared to any Cash Generating Unit and 2,023m 2016: 1,659m and the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, and the mathematical accuracy hence no additional sensitivity because the Directors assessment of managements model.
disclosures are required in note 6.1 of the value in use of the Groups of the Group financial statements.
We obtained an understanding of, and assessed the basis for, key underlying Cash Generating Units CGUs assumptions for the 2018 budget.
involves judgement about the future performance of the business We have validated that the cash flow forecasts used in the valuation are and the discount rates applied to consistentwith information approved by the Board and have evaluated the future cash flow forecasts.
appropriateness of the use of these forecasts in light of the historical accuracy ofmanagements forecasts.
In the year, goodwill of 523m For the five CGUs with the largest goodwill balances or the lowest headroom, we wasrecognised in respect of challenged management on its cash flow forecasts and the implied growth rates Intacct and we have undertaken for 2018 and beyond by considering evidence available to support these separate procedures in respect of assumptions and their consistency with findings from other areas of our audit.
this goodwill balance as part of our work on the provisional purchase The discount rates and long-term growth rates applied within the model were price allocation.
assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate.
There is no change in the risk For all CGUs, we performed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key profile in the current year.
assumptionsin the model with downside scenarios to understand the parametersthat, should they arise, could lead to a different conclusion in respectof the carrying value of goodwill.
In respect of goodwill relating to Intacct, we evaluated whether there are any indicators that the fair value of the business is lower than the consideration paid to acquire the business.
We compared the post-acquisition performance of Intacct to expectations set by management at the time of the acquisition.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in note 6.1 in the Group financial statements.
The entire goodwill balance was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team with assistance from certain component audit teams on procedures over forecast financial information where relevant.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 113 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee We assessed whether the constituent costs are recorded in line with the Groups Based on the procedures Classification of policy as summarised in note 3.6 and that the policy has been applied consistently performed, we did not identify any restructuring costs as with prior years.
evidence of material misstatement non-recurring, as a result of of business transformations costs.
We tested a sample of costs classified as non-recurring to verify that they are the Groups business The classification of these costs as directly attributable to the business transformation and are recorded at the transformation non-recurring was in accordance correct amount and in the appropriate period.
Refer to the Audit and Risk with the Groups disclosed We considered the level of transparency of the disclosures provided in note 3.6 Committee Report page 79 : accounting policy and reflects that inthe Group financial statements with reference to both the Financial Reporting andnote 3.6 of the Group they relate to a publically Councils FRC 2013 guidance to directors on the use of exceptional items and financialstatements announced global business the key messages reported in the FRCs Corporate Reporting Thematic Review transformation, with the amounts We focused on this area as costs of onAlternative Performance Measures APMs published in November 2017. and the two-year expense timeline 73m have been classified as Component teams at eight locations performed audit procedures on people related reflective of the scale of the non-recurring on the basis that they reorganisation costs, external consultant spend and on certain net property exit transformation activities, and have relate to the Groups business costs.
The Primary audit team performed audit procedures on the remaining been consistently disclosed in the transformation and consequently business transformation costs.
are excluded from the Groups underlying results.
As such, the audit team focused its procedures on the following risks: Inappropriate classification ofcosts as non-recurring: Inconsistent treatment of non-recurring items from year toyear: and Inappropriate quantification ofnon-recurring items and recognition of amounts in an incorrect accounting period.
In the prior year, the key audit matter included within our auditors report in relation to non-recurring restructuring costs as a result of the Groups business transformation, also included a risk in relation to changes in finance systems and processes as a result of the commencement of the Groups finance transformation.
This included the implementation of the Groups X3 ERP system for certain processes in the UK and South Africa and the establishment of Financial Shared Services Centres FSSC in those locations.
In the current year, the operations of the FSSCs continued to stabilise and the migration of France, Portugal and Belgium on to X3 and into the FSSC in the UK for certain processes was not assessed by the team to have the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as prior year external audit findings and recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 24 reporting components of the Group, we selected 11 components covering entities within the United Kingdom and Ireland, France, North America, Spain, Germany, Brazil and South Africa which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 11 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining five components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the remaining 13 components, audit procedures were undertaken as set out in note 4 below to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
114 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2017 2016 % Group % Group adjusted Profit % Group adjusted Profit % Group Reporting components Number before tax Revenue See note Number before tax Revenue Full scope 6 68% 59% 1,2 6 68% 58% Specific scope 5 30% 30% 2,3 6 31% 32% Full and specific scope coverage 11 98% 89% 12 99% 90% Remaining components 13 2% 11% 4 34 1% 10% Total Reporting components 24 100% 100% 46 100% 100% Profit before tax for continuing and discontinued operations adjusted for non-recurring items as defined in the Our application of materiality section of this report Notes 1.
Three of the six full scope components relate to the parent Company and other corporate entities whose activities include the Groups treasury management and consolidation adjustments.
The Group audit risks in relation to both Intacct acquisition provisional valuation of acquired intangible assets and the carrying value of goodwill were subject to audit procedures by the Primary audit team on the entire balances with assistance from certain component audit teams where relevant.
The Group audit risk in relation to revenue recognition was subject to full audit procedures at each of the full and specific scope locations with significant revenue streams.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts selected for testing by the Primary audit team.
The remaining 13 components contributed a net 2% of adjusted Profit before tax and the contribution of these components ranged from 4% to 5 % of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax.
We instructed a component team to undertake specified procedures over certain cash balances at one location.
For seven components, including Australia, Singapore and Sage People, we performed review scope procedures.
For the remaining components, the Primary audit team performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year The change in the total number of reporting components from 46 to 24 reflects the integration of 25 legal entities, previously reported as separate components, into the Corporate Centre component.
There is no change from prior year in the scope of the audit work performed.
One specific scope reporting location in 2016 is now reported within the UK full scope reporting component.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the Primary audit team and three by component audit teams.
For the five specific scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Primary audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or another group audit partner, would visit all full and selected specific scope audit locations.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the Primary audit team to the component teams in the UK, France, Brazil, North America, and South Africa.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers on the Group risk areas, and meeting with local management to discuss the components business performance and matters relating to the local finance organisation including the internal financial control environment.
EY San Francisco was the existing auditor of Intacct Corporation prior to its acquisition by Sage.
The Primary audit team instructed our EY component team at that location to undertake specified audit procedures on the opening balance sheet at 3 August 2017 and review procedures over the two-month post acquisition trading performance of the business to year end.
The Primary audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 115 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Continuing operations profit before tax or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence of342m the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Starting Discontinued operations profit before tax Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent basis of29m of our audit procedures.
Total profit before tax of 371m We determined materiality for the Group to be 21.4 million 2016: 19.1 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations adjusted for nonrecurring items reported by the Group.
We believe that Profit Adjustments to exclude non-recurring items: before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations adjusted for non-recurring items provides us with the most Business transformation costs of 73m Adjustments relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Gain on disposal of subsidiary of 3m Non-recurring items are set out in note 3.6 of the Groups financial Gain on remeasurement of existing statements.
investment in associate of 13m Totals 428m Materiality Materiality of 21.4m 5% of materialitybasis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the only change in the final materiality from our original assessment at planning was to reflect the actual reported performance of the Group in the year.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 10.7m 2016: 9.5m.
Our performance materiality percentage has remained at 50% to reflect the risk associated with the Group-wide business transformation, and specifically the ongoing changes across the finance organisation that commenced during the prior year, and which included in 2017 for France, Portugal and Belgium the implementation of their respective X3 ERP system for certain processes and the stabilisation of the Financial Shared Services Centres established in both the UK and South Africa during 2016.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.1m to 6.0m 2016: 0.9m to 5.2m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.1m 2016: 1.0m, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report as set out on the Financial highlights page and on pages 2-108, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
116 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 108 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on page 76 the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 63 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 107, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 117 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 102, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
We understood how the Group is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries of management, Internal Audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of Board minutes and papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of Legal Counsel, Group management, Internal Audit, country management at all full and specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed as auditor by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter on 19 October 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 28 February 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is three years, covering the years ended 30 September 2015, 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 21 November 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of The Sage Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of thesematters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on thewebsite.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
118 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017
