82 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH EMPIRE TRUST PLC Overview Materiality: 9.8m financial statements as a whole 1% of total assets Risks of material misstatement Recurring risk Carrying amount of quoted equity investments 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of We have audited the financial statements of British Empire Trust plc material misstatement the Company for the year ended 30 September 2017 which comprise Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and Balance Sheet, Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes, including include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement the accounting policies in note 1. whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of In our opinion the financial statements: resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at We summarise below the key audit matter in arriving at our audit opinion 30 September 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: above, together with our key audit procedures to address that matter and, have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and This matter was addressed, and our results are based on procedures have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of Companies Act 2006. the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a Basis for opinion separate opinion on this matter.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as Auditor by the shareholders on 20 December 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is the one year ended 30 September 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
The risk Our response Carrying amount of quoted Low risk: high value: Our procedures included: equity investments The Companys portfolio of quoted equity investments Test of detail: Agreeing the valuation of 100% 950.5m: 2016: 886.4m makes up 96.9% 2016: 96.1% of the Companys of quoted equity investments in the portfolio to total assets by value and is considered to be the key externally quoted prices: and Refer to pages 75 to 77 Audit driver of results.
We do not consider these investments Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100% of quoted Committee Report, pages 56 and to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to equity investment holdings in the portfolio to 57 accounting policy and page be subject to a significant level of judgment because independently received third-party confirmations 62 and 65 to 69 of the financial they comprise liquid, quoted investments.
due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be Our results the area which had the greatest effect on our overall We found the resulting carrying amount of quoted audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning equity investments to be acceptable.
British Empire Trust plc 83 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information of our audit in the Annual Report Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 9.8m, The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the represents 1%.
financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any uncorrected identified any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
misstatements exceeding 490,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial above and was performed at the administrators head office in Exeter.
statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Total assets Materiality Based solely on our work on the other information: 980.9m 9.8m we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: 9.8m in our opinion, the information given in those reports for the financial Whole financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and statements materiality in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and long-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Total Assets the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on pages 48 490,000 and 49 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern how they are being managed and mitigated: and We are required to report to you if: the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of that basis that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, financial statements: or including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on pages 48 qualifications or assumptions.
and 49 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
84 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH EMPIRE TRUST PLC Corporate governance disclosures Auditors responsibilities We are required to report to you if: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our statement that they consider that the annual report and financial opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
the Companys position and performance, business model and Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are strategy: or considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material by us to the Audit Committee.
misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe we are required to report by exception our responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors visited by us: or report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this records and returns: or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Philip Merchant Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report in these respects.
Chartered Accountants 319 St. Vincent Street 7.
Respective responsibilities Glasgow Directors responsibilities G2 5AS As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 49, the Directors 10 November 2017 are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements, including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
