Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Euromoney Institutional Investor PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Company Balance Sheet at 30 September 2017: the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.2m 2016: 4.1m based on 5% of statutory profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations, adjusted for certain exceptional items.
Overall Company materiality: 13.5m 2016: 3.7m based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted work in three key territories being the UK, US and Canada.
This included full scope Materiality audits at four components and specific financial statement line item audit procedures performed at a further four components.
Taken together, the components at which audit work has been performed accounted for approximately 76% of Groups revenue, 83% of the Groups statutory profit before tax and 91% of the Groups statutory Audit scope profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations, adjusted for certain exceptional items.
Carrying values of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Group and investments in subsidiaries Company Key audit Uncertain tax positions Group matters Presentation of exceptional items Group Acquisition accounting for RISI Group Presentation of discontinued operations Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 25610 12 December 2017 4:47 PM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 76 12 12 2017 4:52:06 PM Financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, understanding and testing management incentive plans, undertaking cut-off procedures to test proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We obtained managements goodwill impairment model and Carrying values of goodwill and acquired intangibles tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including revenue, assets Group profit and cash flow growth rates, terminal values and the Refer to the Audit Committee report on page51 and to note12 selection of discount rates.
We agreed the underlying cash flow to the consolidated financial statements.
projections to management approved budgets and forecasts and assessed how these projections are compiled.
Deploying our At 30 September 2017, the Group had 594m of goodwill and valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rate and intangible assets, including 189m of acquired intangibles and discount rate applied to each CGU compared with third party 399m of goodwill.
information, past performance, the Groups cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
We evaluated indicative offers from third During the year, the Group recognised a 27.4m impairment parties where CGUs are held for sale and have therefore been charge related to goodwill for Ned Davis Research, Inc. NDR.
valued on a fair value less cost of disposal basis.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering historical performance Recoverability of the carrying values of goodwill and acquired and managements forecasting accuracy by applying any intangible assets is contingent on future cash flows of the current year budget shortfalls to future forecasts to highlight the underlying cash generating units CGUs and there is a risk that CGUs with either lower headroom or which are more sensitive if these cash flows do not meet managements expectations the to changes in key assumptions.
We focused our attention on assets will be impaired.
The cash flow forecasts and related those businesses where headroom has decreased or where value in use calculations include a number of significant management has identified impairments, namely NDR.
judgements and estimates including profit growth, cash conversion, terminal growth rate and discount rate.
Where We performed our own independent sensitivity analysis to businesses are held for sale, fair value less cost of disposal understand the impact of reasonable changes in managements rather than value in use has been used to value CGUs.
The assumptions on the available headroom.
We challenged the related calculations are based on an estimate of disposal significant assumptions, specifically relating to revenue and proceeds.
Changes in the key assumptions underpinning profit growth in light of the individual CGUs past performance these calculations have a significant impact on the headroom to assess whether the forecasts are achievable.
We focused in available in the impairment calculations.
particular on the goodwill relating to NDR in order to determine whether we agreed with managements decision to impair and whether in our view the impairment charge is sufficient.
We checked for any additional impairment triggers in other businesses through discussions with management, review of management accounts and board minutes and examining performance of recent acquisitions to identify under-performing businesses.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge recognised in 2017 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures should be given, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 77 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 77 12 11 2017 11:57:25 AM Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated managements assumption whether any indicators Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Company of impairment existed by comparing the net assets of the Refer to note6 to the Company financial statements.
subsidiaries at 30 September 2017 with the Companys investment carrying values.
Investments in subsidiaries of 1,087m are accounted for at cost less impairment in the Company Balance Sheet at 30 September For those investments where the net assets were lower than the 2017. carrying values, management prepared a discounted cash flow model.
We have tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, Investments are tested for impairment if impairment indicators including revenue, profit and cash flow growth rates, terminal exist.
If such indicators exist, the recoverable amounts of the value and the selection of discount rates management has investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine applied.
We performed our own independent sensitivity the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such impairment analysis to understand the impact of reasonable changes in loss is recognised in the income statement.
managements assumptions on the available headroom.
Management judgement is required in the area of impairment As a result of our work, we considered that the carrying values testing, particularly in assessing: 1 whether an event has of the investments held by the Company are supportable in the occurred that may indicate that the related asset values may context of the Company financial statements taken as a whole.
not be recoverable: 2 whether the carrying value of an asset can be supported by the recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell or the net present value of future cash flows which are estimated based on the continued use of the asset in the business: 3 the appropriate key assumptions to be applied in preparing cash flow projections including whether these cash flow projections are discounted using an appropriate rate.
Changing the assumptions selected by management to determine the level, if any, of impairment, including the discount rates or the growth rate assumptions in the cash flow projections, could materially affect the net present value used in the impairment test and as a result affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
We evaluated managements judgements in respect of estimates Uncertain tax positions Group of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the Refer to the Audit Committee report on page52 and to note2 adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
to the consolidated financial statements.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment we deployed our tax specialists and considered third party tax in relation to direct and indirect taxes and there are a advice received by the Group, the status of recent and current number of open tax matters with tax authorities, especially tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, in the UK, US and Canada.
From time to time, the Group judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year enters into transactions with complicated accounting and estimates and developments in the tax environment.
tax consequences and judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions needed in respect of uncertain tax We refreshed our independent assessment of tax risks in the positions.
In addition, the Group is subject to sales taxes in the Groups most material markets UK, US and Canada and we US.
The evolving nature both of US sales tax legislation and evaluated the appropriateness and completeness of related tax of the Groups product base as the business goes increasingly provisions.
The most significant uncertain tax positions comprise digital means that management periodically needs to exercise the Canadian Revenue Agencys assessment of a foreign currency judgement supported by external specialist advice in assessing trade in 2009 and HMRCs challenge related to the Dealogic appropriate levels of provisioning.
Deploying our tax specialists, we discussed tax advice received by the Group direct with the Groups third party advisors in relation to the challenges by the Canadian Revenue Agency and the UKs HMRC.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning for direct and indirect taxes and the related disclosures to be acceptable in the context of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 78 12 11 2017 11:57:25 AM Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made Presentation of exceptional items Group to statutory profit measures to derive adjusted profit measures.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page51 and to note 5 to We understood managements rationale for classifying items the consolidated financial statements.
as exceptional and considered whether this is reasonable and appropriate in arriving at an adjusted profit measure for 2017.
The Group continues to present adjusted earnings by making adjustments for costs and profits which management believes to We considered the appropriateness of classifying the goodwill be exceptional by virtue of their size and incidence.
and available for sale investment impairment charges as exceptional.
Due to their size and nature, we accepted During the year, the Group presented 31.3m of net costs as managements presentation of these items as exceptional.
exceptional items, primarily comprising: goodwill and available for sale investment impairments 29.6m : other exceptional We were satisfied that the release of the provision for US sales costs 8.4m : offset by the release of a provision for US sales tax taxes through exceptional items was appropriate as the provision 3.9m and net profit on disposal or closure of businesses and was originally recorded as an exceptional.
Overall, we found that joint ventures 2.9m.
management was even handed and consistent in its treatment of exceptional credits and debits.
Given that the Group presents adjusted earnings measures in addition to its statutory results, we focused on the classification We were satisfied that excluding the one-off net profit on of these items as exceptional in the consolidated financial disposal or closure of businesses and joint ventures from adjusted statements, particularly considering the nature of such items, profit was consistent with the Groups historical practice.
Where whether they are non-recurring and whether they are significant other costs were treated as exceptional, we considered whether in size.
the Company had complied with its accounting policy and with the financial hurdle set by the Directors below which items of cost and income should not be treated as exceptional.
We considered the appropriateness and transparency of the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements regarding the nature of the reconciling items between statutory and adjusted profit measures, especially in the context of the principle that financial reporting as a whole should be fair, balanced and understandable.
As a result of our work, we determined that the classification of exceptional items was reasonable, that the Groups policy in this area has been consistently applied and that the rationale for including or excluding items from adjusted profit has been consistently applied across gains and losses.
Acquisition accounting for RISI Group We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreement SPA and due diligence reports to gain an understanding of the Refer to the Audit Committee report on page52 and to note15 key terms of and business rationale for the acquisition.
In testing the valuation of the intangible assets acquired, we On 6 April 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the equity share considered whether the identified intangible assets were capital of RISI, the leading price reporting agency for the global appropriate by reference to the SPA, due diligence reports and forecast products market, for approximately 100m.
A provisional purchase price allocation exercise has been Deploying our valuations experts, we engaged with performed by management, assisted by an external expert.
management and with managements third party expert to The primary element of the valuation exercise assessed the fair assess the methodology employed for calculating the fair values value of identifiable intangible assets in the form of trade name of the assets and liabilities and the appropriateness of the key 24m, customer relationships 41m and technology 1m assumptions used, including discount rates.
along with the related tax impact 26.6m.
Goodwill of 66m was recognised as a result of the acquisition.
We checked that the material fair value adjustments to the net assets were consistent with the accounting standard Judgement was required in identifying and valuing these requirements.
Based on the evidence obtained, we did not acquired intangible assets and goodwill and in determining the identify any indication that the fair value adjustments identified valuation of the other assets and liabilities acquired.
by management were inappropriate or that material fair value adjustments were omitted from managements assessment.
We specified certain procedures for our component team to undertake on the opening balance sheet acquired by the Group.
We reviewed managements analysis of the impacts of the differences between RISIs accounting policies against the Groups accounting policies and noted no material differences.
We read the disclosures in the financial statements to satisfy ourselves that they are in line with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
As a result of our work, we determined that the acquisition accounting and related disclosures applied by the Group on a provisional basis at 30 September 2017 were appropriate.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 79 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 79 12 11 2017 11:57:26 AM Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We have examined minutes of board meetings, written Presentation of discontinued operations Group correspondence between the Group and the potential Refer to the Audit Committee report on page52 and to note11 purchasers and communications to the Groups investors.
We to the consolidated financial statements.
considered that the classification of assets and liabilities in the disposal group as held for sale and the results of the disposal In September 2017, the Group announced its plan to explore group as discontinued operations is appropriate and in the sale of its Global Markets Intelligence Division, consisting of accordance with IFRS 5.
CEIC and EMIS the disposal group after receiving interest from potential buyers.
We performed specified audit procedures over the balances and results of the disposal group presented separately in At 30 September 2017, the sale was not completed.
The disposal the consolidated income statement and balance sheet at group was presented as held for sale and as a discontinued 30 September 2017, including revenue, cash, deferred revenue operation at and for the year ended 30 September 2017 in and accruals.
Furthermore, the carrying value of the assets and liabilities of the Judgement was required in determining whether CEIC and disposal group has been assessed by reference to the expected EMIS met the IFRS 5 criteria for classification as discontinued sale proceeds less estimated cost to sell.
We were satisfied operations and in assessing the disposal group for impairment.
that the net assets of the disposal group were recoverable at 30 September 2017.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
We considered that the disclosures are appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the industry in which they operate and the accounting processes and controls.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of 87 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
We identified four components in the UK, US and Canada that required a full scope audit due to their size.
Audit procedures over specific financial statement line items were performed at a furtherfour components in the UK and US to give sufficient audit coverage.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components by us, as the Group audit team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
We performed full scope audits in respect of Euromoney Trading Limited UK, Euromoney Global Limited UK, Institutional Investor, Inc.
US and BCA Research, Inc. Canada which, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size.
We performed specified procedures at RISI, Inc. over revenue, trade and other receivables and deferred income, at Fantfoot Limitedand Euromoney Canada Limited over cash and cash equivalents, loan notes and borrowings andat Tipall Limited over property, plant and equipment.
This ensured that sufficient and appropriate audit procedures were performed to achieve sufficient coverage over these financial statement line items.
In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our component audit teams, we conducted visits to our full scope components in the US and Canada, which included file reviews and attendance at key meetings with local management.
We also had regular dialogue with component teams throughout the year.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and corporate functions were audited by the Group audit team.
This included our work over goodwill and intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, post-retirement benefits, share-based payments and tax.
Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 76% of the Groups revenue, 83% of the Groups statutory profit before tax and 91% of the Groups statutory profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations, adjusted for certain exceptional items.
This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the Group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures, which covers certain of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 80 12 11 2017 11:57:26 AM Financial statements Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 4.2m 2016: 4.1m.
How we 5% of statutory profit before tax for continuing and discontinued 1% of total assets.
determined it operations, adjusted for certain exceptional items.
Rationale for The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted operating Based on our professional benchmark applied profit, which adjusts statutory profit for a number of income and judgement, total assets is expenditure items.
Management uses this measure as it believes that an appropriate measure to it eliminates the volatility inherent in exceptional items.
We have taken assess the performance of the this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we Company and is a generally have not adjusted profit before tax to add back amortisation of acquired accepted auditing benchmark intangible assets, share of results in associates and joint ventures or for holding companies.
net finance costs as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
The CEIC and EMIS businesses that are classified as discontinued operations contributed a full years results and remained part of the Group at 30 September 2017.
In our view, it is therefore appropriate to continue to take the profit from discontinued operations into account when determining our materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.2m and 3.9m.
Certain components were audited to local statutory audit materiality levels that were also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 for the Group and Company audits 2016: 200,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements whether the draw attention to.
However, because Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting not all future events or conditions can be in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material predicted, this statement is not a guarantee uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern as to the Groups and Companys ability to over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 81 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 81 12 11 2017 11:57:26 AM Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 57 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on pages 56 and 57, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 51 and 52 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 82 12 11 2017 11:57:26 AM Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 56 and 57, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 29 January 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three years, covering the years ended 30 September 2015 to 30 September 2017.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 November 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 83 25610 11 December 2017 11:43 AM Proof 5 Euromoney AR2017 Financials-Proof 6. indd 83 12 11 2017 11:57:26 AM
