Independent auditors report to the members of Countryside Properties PLC 78 Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Countryside Properties PLCs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position as at 30 September 2017: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include adescription of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, we have not provided any non-audit services to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
Our audit approach Context Countryside Properties PLC is a British housebuilder and urban regeneration company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is wholly UK based, operating in London and the South East of England, and with a presence in the Midlands and North West of England through its Partnerships division.
The Group is susceptible to external macro-economic factors such as government regulation, mortgage availability and changes in the wider building sector such as customer demand, supply chain availability and build cost inflation.
This was particularly relevant for our work in the areas of margin forecasting and the valuation of inventory.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 7.2 million 2016: 4.6 million, based on 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for non-underlying items.
Overall parent company materiality: 6.5 million 2016: 4.1 million, based on 1% of total assets, restricted to an amount below the Group overall materiality.
Materiality The Group operates in two business segments, Partnerships and Housebuilding, as set out in the Strategic Report refer to pages 2 to 39.
Each of the operating segments is broken down into a number of reporting units which are consolidated into the Group financial statements along with central reporting entities.
Audit scope We performed audit work over the complete financial information of 17 reporting units, including central reporting entities and the parent company which accounted for 85 per cent of the Groups revenues and 83 per cent of the Groups profit before tax, adjusted for non-underlying items.
Cost forecast and margin estimates.
Key audit Commercial land transactions.
matters Shared equity valuation available for sale financial assets.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 79 Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Cost forecast and margin estimates Group We obtained an understanding of managements process for preparing a site forecast and evaluated managements controls over cost forecasting and changes to forecasts.
Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies and Note 2 Critical accounting policies.
We tested managements controls over the approval of initial forecasts as well as the The Groups margin recognition framework is based on the margin forecast for each controls over the regular updating of forecasts.
We also attended a number of site.
These margins, which drive the recognition of costs as each unit is sold, reflect managements monthly divisional board meetings which gave us additional evidence over the estimated selling prices and costs for each development.
This process is effectively a robustness of the forecasting process.
method of allocating the total forecast costs, representing both land and build costs of a development over each individual unit.
We held discussions with management to understand the status and progress of a sample of sites and tested that the explanations received were consistent with the latest management forecast.
There is a risk that the margin forecast for the site and the margin subsequently recognised on each unit sale is not appropriate and reflective of the actual final profit Our substantive procedures focused on sites that generated significant revenue in the year margin that will be recognised on a development.
and we: We consider the appropriate margin recognition across the life of the site to be the assessed the appropriateness of a sample of underlying assumptions within the forecasts, most significant financial reporting risk for the Group, principally due to the high level including sales prices and costs which have a significant impact on the site forecasts: of management judgment involved in the accounting for the Groups developments given that sales prices and build costs are inherently uncertain and are influenced by assessed managements historic forecasting accuracy on completed sites in FY17, changes in external market factors, such as the availability of mortgages and build understanding the reasons and testing, where appropriate, differences to the FY16 costinflation.
forecast margin: tested a sample of forecast sales prices to the actual sales price attained for similar properties to support the validity of the estimated sales price in the forecast: and tested a sample of costs incurred to third party support.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we considered the forecast margin to be inappropriate.
Land and inventory valuation Group We obtained an understanding of managements process for preparing a site forecast.
We understood and evaluated managements controls over the cost forecasting process and tested the key controls over the approval of the initial forecasts and the monitoring Inventory is comprised of land held for development, work in progress, raw materials ofupdates required to the forecasts over the course of the sites life.
and completed units part-exchanged properties.
We considered margins for all material sites to identify those with low or eroding margins, Inventory is the most significant balance in the consolidated statement of financial due to specific issues or underperformance.
We discussed the identified sites with position and is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV being the management, including considering the level of provisions, if any, held against these sites and margin the development is forecast to make over its lifecycle based upon forecast corroborated the explanations with available external evidence in respect of the carrying sales prices and build costs.
The NRV of each development is forecast and monitored as described in the key audit We obtained an analysis of the composition of the inventory balance, specifically the level matter above and is therefore subject to the same key assumptions.
Due to the and ageing of completed but unreserved units, to understand if completed stock is held at influence of the same external factors and the cyclical nature of the housing industry, the appropriate carrying value.
with periodic downturns in customer demand, there is a risk that the calculation of a developments NRV may be subject to estimation error, leading to inventory being We also assessed the historical accuracy of managements forecasting on completed sites in held at an incorrect value and an unrecorded impairment charge.
FY17, understanding the reasons and testing where appropriate, differences to the FY16 forecast margin.
For sites with a provision, we compared the inventory valuation with the forecast NRV.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we determined additional impairments were required, above those already recorded by management.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Countryside Properties PLC 80 Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Commercial land transactions Group We held discussions with management to understand the substance of material commercial land transactions.
Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies.
Where applicable, we read the relevant extracts from managements papers on the The Group has entered into a number of commercial land transactions during the proposed accounting treatment of the transactions.
The nature of these transactions can be complex and bespoke.
The format of the agreements introduces potential accounting to reflect the terms of the agreements.
We substantively tested material or complex land acquisitions through examination of contracts and agreements to check that the acquisition and subsequent overage terms had Due to their complex nature, we focused on this area to ensure that the accounting been identified and accounted for appropriately, and that all the related liabilities had been reflected the underlying agreements.
properly recorded in the financial statements.
We assessed the accounting treatment of the transactions against IAS 18 IAS 11 as applicable.
We were satisfied that management had appropriately accounted for these transactions.
Shared equity valuation available for sale financial assets Group We evaluated and tested the mechanics of the calculation to check the correct application of the underlying assumptions and accuracy of the calculation.
We obtained a sample of the original loan agreements to verify terms of the loans used The Group has advanced loans to homebuyers to assist them in the purchase of their within the calculation.
property under shared equity schemes.
These loans are held as available for sale financial assets in the balance sheet and are held at fair value.
We tested a sample of cash receipts from redemptions in the year to bank statements.
The valuation method for these assets is not capable of being based on observable Through discussion with management and review of the calculation we identified the key market data and therefore the valuation model is subject to management judgment assumptions included within the calculation including expected house price inflation, discount and estimates, including expected house price movements, credit risk of borrowers, rates, recoverability and expected timing of receipt.
discount rates which incorporate purchaser default rates, recoverability and expected timing of receipt.
We corroborated these assumptions by comparing those used by management with comparable discount rates used by similar companies, and our own independent research Changes in the assumptions used can have a significant impact on the fair value of on house prices and redemption rates.
In addition to re-performing managements sensitivities we performed our own sensitivities based upon our own independent research to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, materially change the valuation ofthe assets.
Based on the procedures we performed we identified no changes to key assumptions which would result in a material change to the valuation.
Recoverability of investments Parent We obtained managements assessment of the carrying value of the investments.
We agreed the cash flow forecast used in the assessment to formally approved forecasts.
Refer to Note 1 Accounting policies We assessed key assumptions within managements forecasts.
The parent company holds investments in its subsidiaries totalling over 700 million.
We focused on this area due to the size of the investment balance as there is a risk of We performed a sensitivity analysis over key assumptions, including the discount and material misstatement if the underlying investments are under-performing.
We assessed for impairment indicators of which there were none.
We did not note any exceptions arising from our audit procedures.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 81 Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our audit approach continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is comprised of two segments, Housebuilding and Partnerships.
These are then further broken down into seven operating divisions, five for Housebuilding and two for Partnerships.
Each of the divisions is broken down into a number of reporting units which also include joint ventures that are included in the Group financial statements, along with the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 17 reporting units, including centralised functions and the parent company which required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size.
These 17 reporting units were all audited by the Group engagement team and, where applicable, included the audit of the joint ventures.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of the complete financial information accounted for 83 per cent of the Groups profit before tax, adjusted for non-underlying items and 85 per cent of the Groups revenue.
Our audit work at these reporting units, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level on the consolidation, goodwill, joint venture adjustments, tax, share based payments and the available for sale financial assets, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group and parent company financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall Group materiality 7.2 million 2016: 4.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for 1% of total assets, restricted to an amount below non-underlyingitems.
Rationale for Based on our professional judgment, we determined We believe that total assets is the primary measure used benchmark applied materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of profit by the shareholders in assessing the position of the before tax, adjusted for non-underlying items.
We believe entity, and is an accepted auditing benchmark.
that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of non-underlying charges and credits and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.2 million and 6.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million Group audit 2016: 0.2 million and 0.3 million parent company audit 2016: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to is not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial continue as a going concern.
statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Countryside Properties PLC 82 Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 53, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 52 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 83 Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but isnot a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements canarise from fraud orerror and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
Thisdescription forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 19 November 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 2 years, covering the years ended 30 September 2016 to 30 September 2017.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London November 2017 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
