GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Independent audit or s report to the members of Shaftesbury PLC Our opinion on the financial statements Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards Shaftesbury PLCs Group financial statements and Parent company are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Company financial statements the financial statements give a true financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these adopted by the European Union: requirements.
The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Conclusions relating to principal risks, requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you What we have audited whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: Shaftesbury PLCs financial statements at 30 September 2017 comprise: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 61 to 63 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or GROUP COMPANY mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 60 in the annual report that 3 3 Balance sheet they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future 3 Statement of comprehensive income performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 118 in the financial statements 3 3 Cash flow statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 3 3 Statement of changes in equity material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial Related notes 1 to 26, including a summary of significant statements: accounting policies 3 3 whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the directors explanation set out on page 64 in the annual report as to is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Company how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
105 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Overview of our audit approach Key Audit The valuation of investment property including properties within the Longmartin joint venture Matters Revenue recognition including the timing of revenue recognition, and the treatment of rents and incentives Audit scope The Group operates in Londons West End and consists of a single reportable segment across eleven statutory entities.
All of the Groups companies were included in the scope of the audit.
The Group audit team performed direct testing of the Longmartin joint venture balances which are included in the Group.
Materiality Overall Group materiality: 36m which represents 1% of total assets.
Specific Group materiality: 3.7m which represents 5% of operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net finance costs.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Risk: The valuation of investment property Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment property included: We have audited the inputs, assumptions and review the 3,407m plus 231m being the Groups share in We understood and assessed the design and implementation of the methodology used by the external the Longmartin joint venture Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the investment valuers.
We conclude that the propertyportfolio and managements review of the valuations.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 82 inputs and methodology applied are to 84 : Accounting policies page 120 : and Note 9 reasonable and that the external We evaluated the competence of the external valuers which included of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages consideration of their qualifications and expertise, as well as their valuations are an appropriate 123 to 124 assessment of the fair value of independence.
investment properties at 30 The valuation of investment property including We performed testing over the inputs to the valuations.
For a sample September 2017. properties held in the joint venture requires of properties we tested the contracted rent and key lease terms by significant judgement and estimates by management We did not identify any exceptions agreeingthis back to lease agreements.
Any input inaccuracies or material errors in the input or unreasonable bases used in these judgements testing for the sample we tested.
such as in respect of estimated rental value and Fair value of investment We conclude that the valuation of yield profile applied could result in a material properties tested by audit each of the assets in the sample misstatement of the statement of comprehensive 16% team Chartered Surveyors tested by our Chartered Surveyors income and balance sheet.
Fair value of investment are within a reasonable range.
There is also a risk that management may properties subject to We conclude that management analytical procedures unduly influence the significant judgements provided an appropriate level of and estimates in respect of property valuations review and challenge over the in order to achieve property valuation and valuations but we did not identify other performance targets to meet market 84% evidence of undue management expectations or bonus targets.
The Group audit team includes Chartered Surveyors who tested a sample of properties.
They challenged the valuation approach and assumptions.
The sample size they tested accounted for 84% of the fair value of investment properties including investment properties held in the Longmartin joint venture.
Our Chartered Surveyors compared the equivalent yields applied to each property to an expected range of yields taking into account market data and asset specific considerations.
They also considered whether the other assumptions applied by the external valuers, such as the estimated rental values, tenant incentives and development costs to complete were supported by available data such as recent lettings and occupancy levels.
106 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the external valuers to discuss the findings from our audit work described above and to seek further explanations as required.
We also discussed the impact of current market conditions on the property valuations.
In respect of the properties not in the sample tested by our Chartered Surveyors 16% of the fair value, we performed detailed analytical procedures on a property-by-property basis.
This involved forming an expectation of the fair value of each property in the portfolio by reference to relevant external market data relating to capital growth rates.
We investigated further the valuations of those properties which were not in line with our initial expectations which included further discussions with management and the external valuers and, where appropriate, involvement of our Chartered Surveyors.
We made enquiries of the external valuers and inspected their terms of reference to confirm that they had not been subject to undue influence or direction from management.
We utilised our detailed analytical procedures and work of the Chartered Surveyors described above in order to assess for evidence of undue management influence.
We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties focusing primarily on development properties which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these refurbishments developments.
For development appraisals, we vouched the costs incurred to date, and agreed the cost to complete estimates to approved budgets and contractual arrangements.
Risk: Revenue recognition, including the We performed detailed testing for a sample of leases by agreeing We audited the timing of revenue timing of revenue recognition, and the theannual rent back to the terms of the lease agreements.
recognition, treatment of rents treatment of rents and incentives and incentives, and assessed For a sample of leases, we tested that the lease income, including the risk of management override.
103m of rents receivable FY16: 98m the treatment of lease incentives, is on a straight-line basis, and in Based upon the audit procedures accordance with SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages performed, we conclude that 82 to 84 : Accounting policies page 119 : We performed substantive analytical procedures and found that revenue has been recognised and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial the revenue recognised by the Group and each of the operating on an appropriate basis in Statements page 121 companieswas materially consistent with our expectations theyear.
Market expectations and profit based targets developedfrom rents in the tenancy schedules.
may place pressure on management to distort We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted revenue recognition.
This may result in complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
overstatement or deferral of revenues to We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the assist in meeting current or future targets or risk of management override of controls including journal entry testing expectations.
to confirm the processing and timing of journals to record revenue is In order to distort rental income, consistent with our expectations.
management could manipulate the deferred revenue balance or the IFRS rent adjustment for lease incentives.
107 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 An Overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group, effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: BASIS MATERIALITY PERFORMANCE AUDIT MATERIALITY DIFFERENCES Overall 1% of total assets 36.0m 27.0m 1.8m Specific 5% of operating profit before 3.7m 2.8m 0.2m investment property valuation Applicable for account balances not related to investment movements and net finance costs properties, loans & borrowings and derivatives Materiality Performance materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall financial statements as a whole.
We determined that total assets would be performance materiality and specific performance materiality i. e. our the most appropriate basis for determining overall materiality given that key tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the users of the Groups financial statements are primarily focussed on the Group should be 75% 2016: 50% of the respective materiality.
We have valuation of the Groups assets: primarily the investment property portfolio.
increased our set performance materiality from 50% to 75% in the current This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk year due to few uncorrected adjustments being identified in the 2016 audit, assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material and no weaknesses being identified in our walk-through testing of key misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit control processes.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to confirm that procedures.
For planning purposes this was initially based on the total assets total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our as at 30 September 2016. materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
We assessed that for account balances not related to investment properties either wholly owned or within the joint venture, loans & borrowings and Reporting threshold derivatives, a misstatement of less than overall materiality for the financial An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being statements could influence the economic decisions of users.
determined that specific materiality for these areas should be based on We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net Committee any uncorrected audit differences on investment property finance costs.
We believe that it is appropriate to use a profit-based valuations in excess of 1.8m, as well as uncorrected audit differences in measure for specific materiality as profit is also a focus of users of the excess of 0.2m that relate to our specific testing of the other account financial statements.
balances not related to investment properties, loans & borrowings and During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the derivatives.
These are set at 5% of their respective planning materiality.
We actual value of total assets increased from that which we had used as the also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, in our view, initial basis for determining overall materiality primarily due to the increase warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
in property valuations from the annual revaluation, we increased our We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative materiality threshold to 36.0m, as noted in the table above, which measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant represents 1.0% of total assets of 3.6bn as at 30 September 2017. qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
In the prior year audit we adopted an overall materiality of 33.0m based on 1% of total assets.
We also applied a specific materiality of 3.9m based on 5% of operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net finance costs.
108 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Other information Opinion on other matters prescribed by The other information comprises the information included in the annual the Companies Act 2006 report including the Strategic report Overview, Strategic report Annual In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be Review, Governance and Other information including Shareholder audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies information, Portfolio analysis, Basis of valuation, Summary report by the Act 2006. valuers, Sustainability and the Glossary of terms set out on pages 1 to 104 and 139 to 147, other than the financial statements and our auditors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is the information about internal control and risk management systems in to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the information about the Companys corporate governance code and other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
7 of required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility Matters on which we are required to to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information report by exception where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 104 the statement identified material misstatements in: given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and the strategic report or the directors report: or provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the information about internal control and risk management systems in performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital our knowledge obtained in the audit: or structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 82 to 84 the section We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee is materially opinion: inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not Code set out on page 74 the parts of the directors statement required visited by us: or under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly accounting records and returns: or disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Governance Code.
made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company 109 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to Responsibilities of directors material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by reviewing the As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on Companys risk register, enquiry with management and the Audit page 104 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Committee during the planning and execution phases of our audit.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view in accordance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the following: - Inquire of members of senior management, and when appropriate, In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for those charged with governance regarding their knowledge of any assessing the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going concern, non-compliance or potential non-compliance with laws and regulations disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the that could affect the financial statements.
going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or has no - Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.
realistic alternative but to do so.
- Obtaining and reading correspondence from legal and regulatory bodies including HRMC.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit of the financial statements work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always or for the opinions we have formed.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of https: www.
This description forms part users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit Other matters we are required to was considered capable of detecting address irregularities, including fraud We were appointed by the Company on 15 October 2015 to audit the The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016 and the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 2 years, of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing covering the years ending 30 September 2016 to 30 September 2017.
Our appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected audit engagement letter was refreshed on 30 October 2017. fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the governance of the entity and management.
Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
Our approach was as follows: The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that Committee.
are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and Eamonn McGrath the relevant tax regulations in the United Kingdom, including the UK REIT Senior Statutory Auditor regulations.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor We understood how the Company is complying with those frameworks London through enquiry with management, and by identifying the Companys 27 November 2017 policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We also identified those members of management who have the primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations, and for reporting any known instances of non-compliance to those charged with governance.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Shaftesbury PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
