Independent auditors report To the members of ZPG Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of ZPG plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company statement of financial position: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statement: and the related notes 1 to 29 to the group financial statements and notes 1 to 16 to the company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Accounting for acquisitions: Valuation of accrued income in the comparison segment: Revenue recognition in the property segment: and Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
The materiality that we used in the current year was 2.3 million which was determined on the basis of 4.8% Materiality of profit before tax.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including Scoping group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Entities subject to full scope audit procedures represented 90% of the groups revenue, 93% of the groups profit before tax and 99% of the groups net assets.
Hometrack Data Systems Limited HDS and Websky Limited Expert Agent were acquired during the year Significant changes and full scope audit procedures were performed on these two entities.
The acquisition accounting for these two inour approach entities has been identified as a key audit matter.
There have been no other significant changes in our approach for the year ended 30 September 2017.
96 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of We confirm that we have nothing material to add or the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial draw attention to in respect of these matters.
statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group We agreed with the directors adoption of the going contained within the strategic report on page 35. concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw such material uncertainties.
However, because not all attention to in relation to: future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability the disclosures on pages 32 to 35 that describe the principal risks and explain tocontinue as a going concern.
how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 35 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement in note 1.4 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group and the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or whether the directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
co. uk 97 Independent auditors report continued To the members of ZPG Plc Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Accounting for acquisitions Key audit matter This is a new key audit matter for 2017 following the acquisitions of Hometrack Hometrack Australia and HDS and Expert Agent in the period.
These acquisitions were completed in January 2017 and March 2017 respectively.
description The Purchase Price Allocation PPA in respect of acquisitions is inherently judgemental.
There is a risk that if management use inappropriate methodologies or assumptions within the PPA exercise, that the intangible assets will be understated or overstated.
We have included the key audit matter in our audit report due to the quantum of the balance, its highly judgemental nature, and the fact that it had a substantial impact on our overall audit strategy.
Hometrack Hometrack was acquired for 109.2 million in cash and debt with a further 13.0 million of deferred and contingent consideration expected to be paid.
The key judgement is the calculation of contingent consideration payable to selling shareholders.
Management conducted a multi-scenario model, utilising eight separate scenarios of equal probability, which resulted in 11.8 million of a potential maximum 25.0 million being recognised as consideration and hence goodwill as well as the corresponding liability.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired has been recognised as intangible assets comprised of customer relationship of 25.2 million, brands of 2.1 million, intellectual property of 18.5 million and goodwill of 86.3 million.
Expert Agent Expert Agent was acquired for 20.14 million in cash and 14.74 million of deferred and deferred election consideration expected to be paid.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired has been recognised as intangible assets comprised of customer relationships of 12.7 million, software of 1.4 million, brands of 0.7 million and goodwill of 23.1 million.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 60, notes 1, 1.21 and 13 for the description of the key audit matter, group accounting policy, managements consideration of critical accounting judgements and disclosure note respectively.
How the scope of Our procedures involved: ouraudit responded assessing the design and implementation of the key controls over acquisition accounting: tothe risk using internal experts to review the methodology and assumptions employed by management in calculating the fair value of the intangibles and considering the completeness of intangibles identified: obtaining the underlying cash flow forecasts and discussing them with management, challenging the reasonableness and consistency of the underlying forecasts: auditing the deferred and contingent consideration through modelling and recalculation of the inputs used: and reviewing the associated disclosures to ensure that they are in accordance with IFRS 3.
In addition to the above, during the measurement period, we considered whether the group retrospectively adjusted the provisional amounts recognised at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and challenged the appropriateness of any change to goodwill or the income statement.
We concurred that the acquisitions have been appropriately accounted for under IFRS 3 and that the Key observations assumptions and methodology used in valuing the intangibles is reasonable.
We considered that the accounting for deferred and contingent consideration has been performed correctly and that management has appropriately disclosed the key sensitivities that exist.
98 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Valuation of accrued income in comparison segment Key audit matter Comparison segment revenue is recognised based upon the number of switches provided to suppliers, net of an estimated drop-out.
At the period end there is an element of this revenue that has not been confirmed by the description third party provider and judgement is required to estimate the unbilled or accrued income of 16.4 million at the period end.
Therefore we also considered this key audit matter as a fraud risk.
We have included the key audit matter in our audit report due to the quantum of the balance and the fact that it had a substantial impact on our overall audit strategy.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 60, notes 1, 1.21 and 2 for the description of the key audit matter, group accounting policy, managements consideration of key sources of estimation uncertainty and disclosure note respectively.
How the scope of our Our procedures involved: audit responded to assessing the design and implementation of the key controls over revenue recognition: the key audit matter analysing revenue streams on a month by month basis to understand the drivers of fluctuations and obtain support for any unusual movements: for a statistical sample of suppliers for which there is accrued income at year end, we sought post year-end confirmation of the balance from the relevant third party including invoices and cash receipts to assess the accuracy of the estimate of accrued income: and using data analytic specialists to perform a reconciliation of the switches that occurred in the period by assessing the data integrity from switch creation to reported gross product numbers on which revenue is accrued.
Key observations Based on our work we are satisfied the accounting for accrued income in the comparison segment is in line with accounting standards and is materially appropriate.
co. uk 99 Independent auditors report continued To the members of ZPG Plc Revenue recognition in the property segment Key audit matter Agency revenue primarily consists of recurring subscription payments with agent and developer members in return for property listings.
Revenue recognition is limited in complexity: however given the large volume description of agreements there is a risk that customer subscription agreements may not be appropriately captured and accounted for, and hence the agency revenue population may not be complete.
The number of partners has consistently increased over the year.
Property software services are provided to customers whereby software licenses and support are sold under the same contractual arrangement.
The fair value accounting for these bundled contracts can be complex as the fair value may not be ascribed to each deliverable in accordance with IAS 18.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 60, notes 1 and 2 for the description of the key audit matter, group accounting policy and disclosure note respectively.
For Agency revenue our procedures involved: How the scope of our audit responded to assessing the design and implementation of the key controls over revenue recognition: the keyaudit matter analysing revenue streams on a month by month basis using data analytics to understand the drivers of fluctuations including monthly partner numbers and the average revenue per partner trend, and obtained support for any unusual movements: selecting a sample of estate agents, ascertaining whether they are a ZPG customer or not, and if so, obtaining the underlying contract to ensure that the information within the CRM system is accurate and agreeing the agents back to the ZPG website: and corroborating information for a sample of customer contracts or equivalent agreement selected from the CRM system to subscription details, and then in turn back to the ledger to ensure that revenue has been appropriately recognised.
For property software services our procedures involved: assessing the design and implementation of the key controls over revenue recognition: obtaining managements assessment of revenue recognition and critically assessing the rationale applied by assessing whether the impact of fair valuing each element of the contract would lead to a materially different revenue recognition profile and testing the inputs applied: for a sample of customer contracts, we evaluated the contractual terms, identifying the distinct obligations and establishing their respective fair values, in order to form an expectation of the revenue that should be recognised in the period: and tracing this value to the ledger to evaluate whether revenue has been stated accurately.
Key observations Based on our work we are satisfied the accounting for revenue recognition in the property segment is materially appropriate.
100 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets Key audit matter There is a risk that the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets may not be supported by the recoverable amount of the underlying business.
description The total of goodwill and acquired intangible assets balance has increased significantly to 491.0 million over the past three years as a result of acquisitions made.
The assessment of the recoverable amount requires significant management judgement specifically in modelling the future cash flow forecasts.
Key assumptions in the impairment model include a detailed cash flow forecast derived from the 2018 budget and associated two year projections and a long term growth rate.
In addition, the group has identified five cash generating units CGU following the acquisitions made in the period.
The CGUs are dependent on both short and long term growth assumptions and discount rates.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 61, notes 1, 1.21 and 14 for the description of the key audit matter, group accounting policy, managements consideration of key sources of estimation uncertainty and disclosure note respectively.
Our procedures entailed: How the scope of our audit responded to assessing the design and implementation of the key controls over the impairment model: the keyaudit matter consideration of the Cash Generating Unit CGU identification within the group: checking the mechanical accuracy of the underlying impairment review model: consideration of the appropriateness of the underlying forecasts, corroborating that the assumptions used are reasonable based upon knowledge of the business and the industry, and that the forecasts are consistent with those used in other aspects of the financial statements: engaging internal specialists to independently calculate a Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC and audit of any further risk premium added, to assess whether discount rates used are appropriate: comparing the assumptions used in the impairment review calculations including the discount rates and terminal growth rate to benchmark data and industry specific comparatives to ensure they are reasonable: and reviewing the associated disclosures to ensure that they are in accordance with IAS 36.
Key observations Based on our work we are satisfied that the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets presented in the financial statements is appropriate and we concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment models, taken in aggregate are within our acceptable range.
We concurred with management that the disclosures in note 14 are appropriate and the sensitivities disclosure presents the outcome of reasonably possible changes in projected revenue growth in the Property Software Group CGU.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 2,300,000 2016: 2,100,000.
Group materiality Materiality represents 4.8% 2016: 4.5% of profit before tax, which is consistent with the prior period.
Basis for determining materiality We consider that profit before tax is the most appropriate statutory measure for a listed business and this is also Rationale for the a key measure used by investors.
co. uk 101 Independent auditors report continued To the members of ZPG Plc Our application of materiality continued Group materiality 2.3m Component materiality range 1.4m to 1.6m PBT 48.1m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.1m PBT Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 115,000 2016: 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
We focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work in respect of ZPG Plc, Zoopla Limited and uSwitch Limited, which were subject to a full scope audit, which is consistent with the prior year.
Property software services was subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups operations at that location.
HDS and Expert Agent were acquired in the period and were audited to statutory materiality during the group audit, which is lower than component materiality.
ZPG Plc, Zoopla Limited and uSwitch Limiteds operations together represent 85% of the groups revenue 2016: 96%, 83% 2016: 97% of the groups profit before tax and 96% of the groups net assets 2016: 98%.
Our audit work for these components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 1.38 million to 1.61 million 2016: 1.2 million to 1.5 million.
There were no component audit teams, with the entire audit including the testing of the consolidation being conducted in ZPGs London head office by one central audit team.
Full audit scope 2% 0% 0% Specified audit procedures 5% 1% 8% Review at group level Profit Revenue Net assets beforetax 90% 95% 99% 102 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors inrespect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
co. uk 103 Independent auditors report continued To the members of ZPG Plc Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or ofthese matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report in respect of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report ofthese matters.
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors in 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 6 years, covering the years ending 30 September 2012 to 30 September 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Kate J Houldsworth FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 28 November 2017 104 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017
