OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Imperial Brands PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Imperial Brands PLC Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2017: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Imperial Brands PLC Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
INDEPENDENCE We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH OVERVIEW Overall Group materiality: 130 million 2016: 123 million, based on approximately 4 per cent of adjusted profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 10 million 2016: 10 million, based on 1 per cent of total assets, restricted MATERIALITY due to component reporting requirements.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement we selected 22 reporting entities for full scope audits which represent the principal business units.
We conducted full scope audit work at 22 of these reporting entities which included significant operations in the AUDIT SCOPE UK, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, USA, Australia, France and five other locations.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia.
In addition, certain central reporting entities and group functions, including those covering treasury, taxation and retirement benefits, and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment Group.
Accounting for restructuring provisions Group.
Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks Group.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We challenged the Directors analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS forecasts including the ability to achieve sustained price increases, market size IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT GROUP and market share.
We also evaluated the appropriateness of the key assumptions We focused on this area because the determination of whether including discount rates, short-term and long-term growth rates and performed elements of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired involves sensitivities across the reporting segments.
complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the future results of the relevant parts of the business.
For the Russian business we considered the impact of investment in marketing programmes over the medium-term forecast, together with the broader potential At 30 September 2017 the Group had 12,265 million of goodwill to grow profits in the longer term.
We also considered the impact of current and 600 million of intangible assets with indefinite lives and and expected legislative and duty changes on the business and considered the reasonable headroom in the majority of the Groups groupings of accuracy of managements current year forecasts.
For the Other Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the reasonableness of the We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting Directors forecast by challenging key assumptions about growth strategies segment 2,317 million of goodwill and intangible assets with including supply constraints, regulatory changes in key markets, opportunities indefinite lives.
Growth Markets is made up of a number of in new markets and changes in the relationship between the USA and Cuba.
We operating segments and individual CGUs, including the Drive also considered the accuracy of managements current year forecasts.
Growth CGU grouping and the Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping.
For both of these goodwill is analysed separately and As a result of our work we concluded that the judgement by management that no managements assessment indicated low headroom in the Drive impairment was required was reasonable.
We note however that goodwill and Growth Division CGU of 33 million.
For the Drive Growth CGU intangibles held by these businesses remain highly sensitive to changes in key grouping we focused on the valuation of the Russian business, assumptions.
In particular, for Drive Growth, this conclusion is dependent on a which represents the most material part of this CGU grouping.
sustained recovery in the Russian market from the difficult trading conditions In particular we considered the robustness of short-term growth encountered this year and if this is delayed or does not occur an impairment included in the impairment models, together with discount rates would probably arise.
Given this, management has disclosed relevant sensitivities and long term growth rates.
For the Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping the valuation is dependent on continuing steady profit growth.
As such we focused on the assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in the context of constraints which could reasonably impact their ability to meet forecast.
The cost optimisation programme operates predominantly through a series of distinct ACCOUNTING FOR RESTRUCTURING projects incorporating centralised governance and project management supporting PROVISIONS GROUP local execution.
This process gives rise to a series of specific restructuring charges The Group has continued in its significant multi-year being booked either at head office level or in individual component businesses.
cost optimisation programme including factory closures, We conducted audit testing through our group team on centrally held charges and organisational rationalisation and the establishment of shared through local testing of charges at component businesses.
The Group also continues to integrate its US businesses.
Management has indicated they expect these Using this approach we tested the valuation, accuracy and completeness of the programmes will require several years to complete.
These primarily consisted of redundancies and related costs, consulting and professional fees and asset impairments.
We found In 2017 the charge in the Consolidated Income Statement relating no material exceptions in our testing.
to these programmes was 391 million and there is a total restructuring provision held on the Consolidated Balance Sheet The principal areas of judgement underlying this work related to: of 380 million.
The restructuring charge is separately identified the estimation of uncertain liabilities and impairment losses, on the face of the Income Statement and excluded from the the extent to which costs incurred on projects were sufficiently distinct and non-GAAP earnings measure Adjusted Operating Profit.
incremental to warrant inclusion in the restructuring charge, and projects which did not fit readily into the major elements of the programme The recognition of restructuring costs requires judgement but were considered by management to be appropriate for inclusion within the to estimate the value and timing of net economic outflows overall restructuring charge.
and the extent to which the Group is externally committed.
The presentation in the financial statements also requires We challenged management over the basis for their judgements in these areas consideration of whether the amounts included in the charge and determined that the amounts included in the charge were reasonable.
are fair and whether their separate presentation is helpful in understanding financial performance.
We also considered the merits of separate disclosure of the restructuring charge and discussed this with management and the Audit Committee.
We concurred with their conclusion that the extensive scale and cost of the programme, its duration over several years and the level of centralised Group-wide control and Board focus, indicated that separate disclosure was acceptable.
We also considered disclosures, to ensure consistency with the correspondence between the Company and the FRC in the year.
In the calculation of deferred taxes, we assessed the adequacy of tax loss TAX ACCOUNTING AND THE LEVEL OF TAX PROVISIONS recognition and the level of provision established in relation to a number of HELD AGAINST RISKS GROUP uncertain tax positions primarily in Europe including the challenge from the There are a number of significant judgements involved in the French tax authorities in relation to Altadis Distribution France.
We determined determination of tax balances, specifically in relation to the that the position adopted in the financial statements was reasonable based on recognition of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation our consideration of managements assessment of risks combined with their liabilities in relation to the distribution of reserves held in overseas use of experts in support of their provision for uncertain tax outcomes.
The Group also has a number of uncertain tax considered the reasonability of the tax losses recognised.
positions in relation to which management apply judgement in setting provisions.
We considered the overall clarity of disclosure in relation to tax provisioning and the discussion of contingent liabilities including Altadis Distribution France and Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities of a more general assessment of cross border transfer pricing and determined that dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, they were fair and proportionate.
this was an area of focus for us.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
76 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 277 legal entities represented by 225 reporting entities, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group operates.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol through an integrated consolidation system.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, 22 of the 225 reporting entities, including the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other PwC network firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this audit work.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at this business unit.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the group team visited the USA, Morocco, France, Spain, Russia and Italy, as well as in-scope UK reporting locations and the Logistics sub-group.
Video conferences were held at least once with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity and those undertaking specific procedures to discuss the results of the work performed.
In addition the group engagement team reviewed working papers of the auditors of the more significant components.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and retirement benefits.
The Parent Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, the reporting entities and Group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 82 per cent of Group revenues and in excess of 83 per cent of both Group profit before tax and Group adjusted profit before tax.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 130 million 2016: 123 million.
How we determined it Approximately 4 per cent of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that adjusted profit before tax is the primary The Parent entity is principally an investment holding measure used by shareholders and other users in company and therefore it is not appropriate to use assessing the performance of the Group, and that profitbefore tax or revenues to calculate materiality, by excluding items it provides a clearer view on the rather materiality is considered with reference to total performance of the underlying business.
Overall materiality applied is limited to 10 million, lower than 1 per cent of total assets, due to being restricted for Group reporting for the purposes ofthe audit of the consolidated financial statements ofthe Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million and 40 million for the trading entities and 80 million for the financing and treasury entity.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million Group audit 2016: 10 million and 10 million Parent Company audit 2016: 10 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
com 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial a going concern.
statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going We have nothing to report.
concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 28 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 28 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 33, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 39 to 44 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 78 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF THIS REPORT This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 6 August 1996 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 27 September 1997 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 21 years, covering the years ended 27 September 1997 to 30 September 2017.
JOHN MAITLAND SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 7 November 2017 www.
