Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements: and, the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that non-audit services prohibited by the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year which are consistent with the prior year were: Revenue recognition: Intangible assets: client relationships and goodwill: and Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme liability.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 2.880m which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations and is consistent with our approach for the 2016 audit.
Scoping The scope of our audit covered substantially the entire group, with the following entities in scope, in addition to the parent company: Brewin Dolphin Limited: Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited: and Brewin Dolphin MP.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in 2017.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of We confirm that we accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longerhave nothing term viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 1. material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We agreed with the directors adoption the disclosures on pages 26-29 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed of the going or mitigated: concern basis of the directors confirmation on page 71 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal accounting and we risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, did not identify any solvency or liquidity: related material the directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate uncertainties.
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material However, because uncertainties to the group and the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least not all future events twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or conditions can the directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over be predicted, this what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement statement is not a as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and guarantee as to the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures groups ability to drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or continue as a going concern.
whether the directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the parent company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the audit team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition Description As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on page 3, revenue comprises investment management fees of 217.1m 2016: 190.5m, commissions of 66.0m 2016: 71.0m and other income of 21.4m 2016: 20.8m.
Investment management fees account for approximately 67% of total revenue and are based on a percentage of individual clients funds under management.
There is a risk that incorrect rates or fund valuations are used to calculate management fees.
This risk increases where manual amendments are required to be made to system calculated fees.
Therefore we have also identified this as a higher fraud risk.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over responded system generated investment management fees, including associated IT controls.
We also evaluated the design and implementation of controls over fee amendments but we elected not to test their operating effectiveness as enhanced controls were implemented part way through the year.
We selected a sample of quarterly investment management fee calculations for individual clients and recalculated the system generated amount.
We agreed a sample of the rates used to client contracts and the value of funds under management to third party sources.
Additionally, we tested a sample of manual fee amendments to determine their validity in accordance with client agreements and the groups policy.
Key observations No issues were identified through our testing which indicate management fees were materially misstated for the year ended 30 September 2017 Brewin Dolphin 76 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Intangible assets: client relationships and goodwill Description Historically, the group has expanded through acquisitions leading to the recognition of goodwill and client relationships of 90.5m 2016: 71.4m.
During the year, the group acquired BDDL Limited formerly Duncan Lawrie Asset Management Limited which resulted in client relationships of 25.5m being recognised.
As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies in note 3, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
This is considered to be a key source of estimation uncertainty for the group as described in note 4, based on the information contained in the intangibles note 14.
Determining whether these intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount for each of the groups cash-generating units CGUs and where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment should be recorded.
This assessment is based on estimates of the fair value less costs to sell of CGUs based on a percentage of funds under management.
The percentages used are inherently judgemental.
Judgement has also been applied in calculating the fair value of client relationships in the acquisition of BDDL Limited, including the determination that the difference between the fair value of consideration and the fair value of net assets acquired relates entirely to client relationships and no goodwill has arisen.
How the scope of our In assessing the intangible assets, we have reviewed the calculations prepared by management to audit responded assess whether they meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and that the assumptions and judgements made are appropriate.
This included challenging the percentages management applied to market values of funds under management to determine fair value, and validating these against percentages derived from recent public acquisitions of fund management businesses.
We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the production of funds under management data, designed to ensure its completeness and accuracy.
We challenged the recognition and valuation of intangible client relationships recognised on acquisition of BDDL Limited and managements assessment that the fair value of intangible client relationships was 25.5m and that no goodwill should be recognised by testing managements valuation and challenging both key assumptions and whether other identifiable assets should be recognised.
Key observations No issues were identified through our testing which indicate client relationships and goodwill were materially misstated for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme liability Description The group has recognised a defined benefit pension surplus of 4.5m 2016: 7.0m deficit.
The net surplus comprises assets of 106.3m and liabilities of 101.9m.
The calculation of the liability is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and is considered to be a key source of estimation uncertainty for the group as detailed in note 4, and disclosed in note 18.
The key assumptions are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rate where small changes to these assumptions could result in a material change to the pension liability valuation.
How the scope of our audit In order to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions used by management, we have responded assessed the design and implementation of controls over the review of assumptions and have used our own actuarial experts to make direct enquiries of the groups actuary and review the key actuarial assumptions adopted in the IAS 19 Employee Benefits pension valuation.
In particular we compared the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions to our independently determined benchmarks derived using market and other data.
Key observations No issues were identified through our testing which indicate a material misstatement in the assumptions underlying the pension scheme liability for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Managements assumptions were in a reasonable range when compared to our internal benchmarks, with the groups assumptions being marginally conservative in comparison.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 2.880m 2016: 2.485m Basis for determining 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations which is consistent with our approach for the materiality prior year audit.
Rationale for the benchmark Profit before tax was used as the basis for determining materiality as this is the key metric used by applied members of the parent company and other relevant stakeholders in assessing financial performance.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 5% of materiality, 144,000 2016: 2% of materiality 49,700, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reporting threshold has been made to align with the thresholds typically used in listed company audits.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
The group consists of the main trading subsidiary, Brewin Dolphin Limited along with Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, Brewin Dolphin MP Limited, and BDDL Limited.
We focused our group audit scope primarily on Brewin Dolphin Limited which was subject to a full audit, and Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited and Brewin Dolphin MP were subject to an audit of specified account balances.
At the year end all of the net assets of BDDL Limited had been transferred to Brewin Dolphin Limited and thus we did not scope in this entity.
Our coverage of the group audit enabled us to test 98.0% 2016: 97.5% of the groups revenue and its profit before tax.
Our audit of Brewin Dolphin Limited used a component materiality of 2.875m 2016: 2.485m.
The majority of the operations of the group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish company, which represents less than 2.5% 2016: 2.5% of revenue and is audited by another Deloitte member firm.
Brewin Dolphin 78 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, strategic report and directors' report other than the financial statements and report in respect of our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the parent companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company and the parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to Directors remuneration report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ended 2002 to 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Robert Topley FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 28 November 2017 Brewin Dolphin 80 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Statements Contents Consolidated Income Statement 82 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 83 Consolidated Balance Sheet 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 85 Company Balance Sheet 86 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 87 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 88 Company Cash Flow Statement 89 Notes to the Financial Statements 90 1.
Application of new and revised International 90 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and changes in accounting policies 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key 98 sources of estimation uncertainty 5.
Finance income and finance costs 102 10.
Financial instruments and risk management 122 29.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement 131 33.
Related party transactions 132 Brewin Dolphin 81 www.
