STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44 TO 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Report on the audit of the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Opinion preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs In our opinion: as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom of the Groups profit for the 53 weeks then ended: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Basis for opinion accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on as adopted by the European Union: Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance Disclosure Framework: and with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided We have audited the financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc to the Group or the Company.
the Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the Group income statement: appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Group and Company balance sheets: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the Group cash flow statement: the related notes 1 to 5 of Group financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 10 of the Company financial statements.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of the pub estate: and Onerous lease provisions.
With the exception of extending the Onerous lease provisions key audit matter to include the fact that the charge for the year is included as a separately disclosed item, there have been no changes in the key audit matters included in our audit report since 2016.
This is consistent with the fact that the operations of the Group are largely unchanged from the previous year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 8.8m which is approximately 5% of profit before tax before separately disclosed items.
Scoping A full scope audit has been performed in respect of the UK business, consistent with 2016.
Significant changes in our approach In 2016, we adopted an audit approach which tested the operating effectiveness of controls relating to revenue and food and drink expenditure.
In 2017, we have tested the operating effectiveness of controls relating to revenue, food and drink expenditure and, in addition, property, plant and equipment.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 89 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained to in respect of these matters.
within Section 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, We are required to state whether we have anything material to add this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue or draw attention to in relation to: as a going concern.
the disclosures on pages 36 to 40 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement in Section 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 40 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
90 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44 TO 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Valuation of the pub estate As set out in section 3.1 the value of the estate We worked with our property valuation specialists and managements We are in is 4,429m 2016 4,423m.
external advisors to challenge the methodology and underlying agreement with assumptions used in the freehold and long leasehold pub estate the methodology Freehold and long leasehold valuation.
This included: chosen and the The accounting policy adopted and judgements assumptions used are described in section 3.1 to the financial discussing and challenging the appropriateness of the valuation adopted to revalue statements.
methodology adopted with managements external advisors: the pub estate and This is considered to be a key audit matter due benchmarking valuations to transaction activity in the licensed retail conclude there to the judgements inherent within the valuation property market, in order to confirm whether the multiples being appears to be no exercise and the range of acceptable judgements.
proposed were appropriate: bias in the valuation.
The total net book value of revalued properties as The multiples confirming that the sites inspected by the Groups valuer were at 30 September 2017 is 4,230m 2016 4,217m.
adopted across the representative of the pub estate as a whole, in terms of brand and The revaluation exercise performed in the year has estate are within a geography, to determine that the application of the multiple derived resulted in a net increase of 23m versus carrying reasonable range.
from the valuation of the inspected properties to the rest of the pub value 2016 136m, which includes an impairment We concur that the estate was appropriate: charge of 51m 2016 80m recognised in the valuations are income statement.
The Groups accounting policy confirming that the fair maintainable trading levels used in the suitable for inclusion sets out that the market value is determined using revaluation exercise were consistent with the Groups policy and in the financial factors such as estimated fair maintainable trading challenging the use of historical trading results rather than forecasts statements.
levels and estimated multiples which are derived in the determination of fair maintainable trade: for each of the Groups trading brands.
20% of the reviewing the future projected income used in the impairment freehold and long leasehold estate has been reviews for the sites which have had expansionary capital inspected by the Groups external valuers, with investment in the preceding 12 months: the result of the inspection informing the brand standard multiples which are then extrapolated obtaining evidence to support the valuation of a sample of across the remainder of the estate.
properties to which a spot valuation has been applied, for example, through comparison to sales proceeds achieved for similar recent In specific circumstances where this approach sales transactions.
In addition, we performed a retrospective review does not fairly represent the underlying value of of prior year sites which were spot valued: the property, for example if a site is loss making, a spot valuation is applied.
testing the integrity of the data used in the valuations by agreeing a sample to source data: Where sites have been impacted by expansionary capital investment in the preceding 12 months, using analytical tools to test the integrity of the revaluation model: the valuation of those properties is held at the and 24 September 2016 valuation plus capital assessing the competence, independence and integrity expenditure less depreciation in 2017.
Sites that of managements external advisers.
have been open for more than three periods 2016 six periods are reviewed for impairment.
Additionally we: Short leasehold assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating The accounting policy adopted and judgements effectiveness of controls in relation to the valuation of the freehold used are described in section 3.1 to the financial and long leasehold estate.
The total value of short leasehold properties as at 30 September 2017 is 170m 2016 177m.
Judgements in relation to expected trading levels, whether the site has the potential to be turned around and discount rates are applied when calculating short leasehold property impairments.
The Group recorded an impairment charge of 17m 2016 8m in the year.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 91 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Valuation of the pub estate continued Focus areas We challenged the assumptions used by management within the Given the amounts capitalised and the risk impairment reviews performed for the short leasehold estate and associated across the freehold, long leasehold freehold and long leasehold sites impacted by expansionary capital.
and short leasehold sites we have focused our This included: procedures on the assessment made by obtaining evidence to support managements assertion that short management of: leasehold properties can be successfully turned around where the appropriateness of the fair maintainable properties have not been impaired due to managements trading levels and brand multiple assumptions expectation that the performance of the properties will improve.
applied to the freehold and long leasehold estate This included obtaining evidence to support managements on a site by site basis: turnaround plans and performance of a retrospective review considering the success of historic turnaround plans: the valuation of freehold and long leasehold sites impacted by expansionary capital, challenging obtaining evidence to support managements expected the need for any impairment of property, plant performance of sites post investment of expansionary capital and equipment required at an individual outlet and a retrospective review of prior year sites where expansionary level: and capital was incurred: the requirement for any impairment in respect testing the integrity of the information used within the model of the property, plant and equipment held in by agreeing inputs back to source data including historical results the short leasehold estate at an individual and lease terms: and outlet level.
assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate through In addition, due to the level of subjective recalculation and performing sensitivity analysis.
judgements involved in respect of multiple and Additionally, we assessed the design and implementation and tested fair maintainable trade assumptions which are the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to the short inherently uncertain, we have identified a potential leasehold impairment review.
risk of fraud in this key audit matter.
Onerous lease provisions As set out in section 3.3, property provisions are We assessed the appropriateness of the classification of the 35m We agree that the 42.4m 2016 9.3m of which 41.9m 2016 8.8m of property provisions provided in the period as a separately disclosed level of onerous relates to onerous lease provisions.
The accounting item in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: lease provision is policy for provisions is set out in section 3.3.
35m appropriate and We checked that all leasehold sites were considered in 2016 nil of the property provisions provided in that the classification managements process to identify sites which were potentially the period have been included as a separately of the 35m of subject to onerous leases: disclosed item in the income statement.
property provisions Where onerous lease provisions have not been recognised, provided in the Loss-making short leasehold properties are despite historical results indicating that a provision may be required, period as separately reviewed by management to determine whether we obtained evidence to support managements assertion that disclosed is an onerous lease provision is required.
Judgements properties can be successfully turned around.
This included reasonable in in relation to expected trading levels, the assessing the success of previous actions undertaken by accordance with appropriate lease term over which to provide, the management to turnaround similar sites: IAS 1 Presentation potential opportunity to exit the leases early and of Financial the appropriate discount rate to use are applied We tested a sample of loss-making short leasehold and unlicensed Statements.
when assessing the level of onerous lease provision properties to create an expectation of the appropriate level of required.
Therefore we have identified a potential onerous lease provision for each property within our sample and In arriving at risk of fraud in this key audit matter.
compared our expectation with the level of onerous lease provision 41.9m of onerous for each property: lease provisions, Focus areas management have Given the size of the leasehold estate there is a risk We tested the integrity of the information used within the onerous had to make a that where a site is underperforming the cash flows lease provision calculation by agreeing inputs back to source data number of may not be adequate to cover future lease including historical results, and rental commitments: and judgements obligations, resulting in the requirement for an We assessed the appropriateness of the risk-free discount rate regarding the onerous lease provision for the unavoidable cash used through comparison to appropriate external benchmarks.
We focused on the completeness of the of the sites and onerous lease provision both in terms of the sites Additionally, we assessed the design and implementation and tested the period to exit.
where a provision has not been recognised on the the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to the calculation In considering the basis that management have a turnaround plan in of the onerous lease provision.
judgements made, place or opportunity to exit and where there is a we consider that the provision, the judgements used in arriving at the provision is within a level of the provision for each site.
In addition and in a change to prior years we focused on the presentation of part of the charge in the year as a separately disclosed item.
92 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44 TO 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 8.8m 2016 8.7m Basis for determining materiality Approximately 5% 2016 5% of profit before tax adjusted for net profit arising on property disposals, movements in the valuation of the property portfolio and short leasehold impairment and the separately disclosed onerous lease provision charge 2016 profit before tax after the onerous lease provision charge but before separately disclosed items.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Profit before tax before separately disclosed items is a key measure used by the Group in reporting its results to allow a better understanding of the adjusted trading of the Group and is also a key measure considered by analysts.
PBT before Component separately Group materiality range disclosed materiality 0.27m to 8.7m items 8.8m 183m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.438m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the An overview of the scope of our audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 437,500 2016 435,000, Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall assessment, we performed a full scope audit in respect of the UK retail presentation of the financial statements.
operating business and the UK property business together accounting for 99% 2016 99% of the Groups total assets, 97% 2016 97% of revenue and 98% 2016 98% of operating profit.
This audit work was performed directly by the Group audit engagement team, who also tested the consolidation process.
Given the relative size of the German business ALEX we consider the UK business provides sufficient audit assurance over the Group balances.
This approach is consistent with 2016.
In responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, the audit engagement team sought to place reliance on the operating effectiveness of the Groups controls in relation to revenue, food and drink expenditure and property, plant and equipment.
Our audit work on the UK business was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.27m to 8.7m 2016 0.25m to 8.68m.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Other information Responsibilities of Directors The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other preparation of financial statements that are free from material information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, to be materially misstated.
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of statements the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, we are required to report that fact.
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
where we conclude that: Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides financial statements.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or www.
This description forms part Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of our auditors report.
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, UK Corporate Governance Code.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
94 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44 TO 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Other matters Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Auditor tenure In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies appointed by the Board on 10 February 2011 to audit the financial Act 2006. statements for the year ending 24 September 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is seven years, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report covering the years ending 24 September 2011 to 30 September 2017. for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the is consistent with the financial statements: and Audit Committee the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and or the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, John Charlton FCA we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report Senior statutory auditor or the Directors report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Matters on which we are required to report by exception Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records London, United Kingdom Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 22 November 2017 in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 95
