Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc only 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Victrex plc theCompany for the year ended 30 September 2017 which Materiality: 5.5m 2016:5.0m comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated group financial 5.0% 2016: 5.0% of the Groups profit statement of other comprehensive income, the group and company statements as a whole before tax balance sheets, the group and company cash flow statements, theconsolidated and company statements of changes in equity, andthenotes to the financial statements.
Coverage 100% of the Groups profit before tax In our opinion: 2016: 97%.
u the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Risks of material stateofthe groups and of the parent companys affairs as misstatement vs 2016 at30September 2017 and of the groups profit for the year thenended: Valuation of inventories FE Recurring risks u the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Valuation of the UK defined FE accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as benefit pension scheme adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : obligations u the parent company financial statements have been properly Parent company recoverable FE prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU amount of investment in andasapplied in accordance with the provisions of the subsidiary undertakings Companies Act 2006: and u the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ofmaterial misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Basis for opinion judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements and include the most significant assessed risks of Standardson Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by Ourresponsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key Audit Committee.
audit matters unchanged from 2016 in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with We were appointed as auditor by the directors for the 1993 year our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required end.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 24 for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These financial years ended 30 September 2017.
We have fulfilled our matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, Nonon-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
72 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Valuation of inventories Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: 61.5m: 2016: 61.8m A number of estimates are involved in arriving Tests of detail: Challenging the u at the valuation of inventories: Groupsassessment of the normal levels Refer to page 52 Audit Committee ofproduction for FAMC purposes by Report and page 93 for accounting Fully absorbed manufacturing cost u comparing actual and budgeted levels policyand financial disclosures.
FAMC value: is used to value WIP and ofproduction over the past two years: finished goods.
This involves estimation of and understanding and corroborating the normal level of production and theimpact of manufacturing variances judgement with regard to whether inrelation to production output.
variances arising compared to FAMC should be attributed or not to the closing Comparing inventory levels to historical u inventory valuation.
sales data to challenge whether slow moving and obsolete inventories have Non conforming and slow moving u been appropriately identified.
inventory provisions: judgements are made with regard to the categorisation Year-end inventory count attendance u ofstock as non conforming and or slow atmain UK manufacturing facility to moving obsolete, and therefore whether gainunderstanding of management items should be considered for provision.
ofand control over identification of nonconforming and obsolete or slow Estimation is then involved in arriving at u moving product.
aprovision against cost in respect of non conforming product and or slow moving Historical comparisons: Considering u inventories so that inventory is carried at realisations of inventories categorised the lower of cost and net realisable value.
asnon conforming and obsolete or slow moving at the prior year end and comparing actual recoveries in the year tothe Groups expected recoveries.
Our results u We found the estimates made in the valuation of inventory to be acceptable.
Valuation of the UK defined benefit Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: pension scheme obligations u Benchmarking assumptions: Significant assumptions are made in valuing Challenging, with the support of our own 69.9m: 2016: 78.5m the UKs defined benefit pension scheme actuarial specialists, the key assumptions obligations before deducting scheme assets Refer to page 52 Audit Committee applied, being the discount rate, inflation including in particular the discount rate, inflation Report, page 97 accounting policy and rate and mortality life expectancy against rates and the average life expectancy.
Small pages 97 to 99 financial disclosures.
externally derived data and internally changes in the assumptions used could have developed benchmarks: and a significant effect on the financial position ofthe group.
u Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures inrespect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
Our results u We found theassumptions made in thevaluation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme obligations to be acceptable.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 73 95 Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued to the members of Victrex plc only 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Parent company: recoverable Low risk, high value Our procedures included: amountof investment in subsidiary Test of detail: comparing the The carrying amount of the parent companys u undertakings carryingamount of 100% of investments investments in subsidiaries represents with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance 111.6 million: 2016: 111.6 million 59% 2016: 92% of the companys total sheet toidentify whether their net assets, assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high Refer to pages 92 and 93 for accounting being anapproximation of their minimum riskof significant misstatement or subject policy and financial disclosures.
recoverable amount, were in excess of their tosignificant judgement.
However, due carrying amount and assessing whether totheir materiality in the context of the those subsidiaries have historically been parent company financial statements, this profit-making.
isconsidered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing u companyaudit.
thework performed by the subsidiary audit team on a sample of those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Test of detail: for the investments where u the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value ofthe business based on its value in use.
Our results u We found the groups assessment oftherecoverability of the investment insubsidiaries to be acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.5m 2016: 5.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 111.0m 2016: 100.3m, of which it represents 5.0% 2016: 5.0%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 3.0m 2016: 2.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 2% 2016: 2%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.27m 2016: 0.25m, inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Profit before tax Materiality 111.0m 2016: 100.3m 5.5m 2016: 5.0m 5.5m Whole financial statements materiality 2016: 5.0m 2.4m 5 L Range of materiality at 10 components 1m2.4m Profit before tax 2016: 1m2m Group materiality 0.27m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2016: 0.25m 74 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Group revenue of the scope of our audit continued Of the Groups 21 reporting components we subjected eight to 5% audits for Group reporting purposes, and two to specified risk 47% focused audit procedures, over revenue, trade receivables and third 13% party stock confirmation.
2016: 18 reporting components of which 7% 2017 seven were subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes and one 95% component to a review of financial information, including enquiry.
2016: 87% 2016 The components for which we performed specified risk-focused procedures were not individually financially significant enough 80% 80 7 13 L torequire an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present 48% 47 48 5 Pspecific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Full scope For the 10 remaining components 2016: 10 remaining components, Specified procedures we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine Limited review our assessment that there were no significant risks of material Residual components misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
Group profit before tax The Group audit team carried out the work on all the components at the Groups offices in Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire other than on 4% one component in Japan where the work, specified audit procedures 3% 2016: one component in Japan review of financial information, including 1% enquiry, was carried out by our Tokyo office 2016: same.
Component 2017 materialities ranged between 1m and 3m 2016: between 1m and 2m.
We have nothing to report on going concern 2016 We are required to report to you if: 96% 96 1 3 L 96% we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation 96 4 Pu to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on Full scope the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material Specified procedures uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Limited review Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months Residual components from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 27 u is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Group total assets We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented 2017 100% inthe Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our 2016: 99% opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as 2016 explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
100% 100 L Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 97% 97 3 P consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Full scope information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Specified procedures financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: u we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: u in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and u in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 75 Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued to the members of Victrex plc only u certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by 5.
We have nothing to report on the other laware not made: or information in the Annual Report continued Directors remuneration report u we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report tobeaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Directors responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 71, statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw thedirectors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial attention to in relation to: statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair the directors confirmation within the going concern and u view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable viabilitystatement page 27 that they have carried out a robust the preparation of financial statements that are free from material assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group those that would threaten its business model, future and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, performance, solvency and liquidity: disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and u intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the directors explanation in the viability statement ofhow they u Auditors responsibilities have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period theyhave done so and why they considered that period to be Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Corporate governance disclosures of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other We are required to report to you if: irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may u we have identified material inconsistencies between the involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and the directors statement that they consider that the annual and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs and understandable and provides the information necessary for website at www.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom u the section of the annual report describing the work of the we owe our responsibilities AuditCommittee does not appropriately address matters This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven Companys members those matters we are required to state to them provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Listing Rules for our review.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, We have nothing to report in these respects.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor in our opinion: Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square u adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Manchester parentCompany, or returns adequate for our audit have M2 3AE notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or 5 December 2017 u the parent Company financial statements and the part of theDirectors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or 76 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements 78 Consolidated income statement 78 Consolidated statement  79 Balance sheets 80 C ash flow statements 81 Consolidated statement ofchangesinequity 82 C ompany statement ofchangesinequity 83 Notes to the financial statements Directors report Shareholder information 105 F ive year financial summary 106 C autionary note regarding forward-looking statements 107 N otice of Annual GeneralMeeting 111 Explanatory notes 116 F inancial calendar andadvisors
