C INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Paragon Banking Group PLC 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Paragon Banking Group PLC the Company for the year ended 30 September 2017, set out in section D of the Annual Report, which comprise the: Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements Consolidated and Company Statements of Movements in Equity Related notes, including the accounting policies in note 4, other than the disclosures labelled as unaudited in note 7.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 February 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years ended 30 September 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Overview This being the second year of our audit tenure, we combined our knowledge and understanding gained throughout the audit of the Group in the previous year with a consideration of external and internal developments and the risks they present to the Groups business model and how these risks are mitigated.
These have been continually reassessed through our half year review, interim and final audits.
That consideration includes conversations not only with the Group, and ongoing knowledge gained through reading pertinent information, but also reflected the views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority, market analysts, specialists within our firm, and peer comparisons.
PAGE 124 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The final result of our risk consideration is shown in the table below, where we have also shown for the first time this this year the segments of the Group in which each of the risks arise and the movements in those risks compared with the prior year.
We have identified seven areas of significant risk at Group level, but we are of the view that five of these - revenue recognition on loans and advances, interest payable on asset backed loan notes, impairment of loans and receivables, recoverability of goodwill and the retirement benefit obligation valuation - represent the greatest significance.
For the first time this year, we have also identified one key audit matter for the parent company only, being investment in subsidiaries risk.
These key audit matters are detailed within Section 3 of our report.
GROUP IDEM, Mortgages and Commercial Central Component Component Segments IDEM Mortgages Central Commercial Revenue recognition on loans and advances Impairment of loans and receivables Interest payable on asset backed loan notes Recoverability of goodwill Retirement benefit obligation valuation Hedge accounting and valuation of derivatives Conduct and regulatory redress Accounting for one-off transactions Share option scheme Financial reporting Taxation risk Going concern Financial control process Consolidation adjustments PARENT COMPANY-ONLY Investments in subsidiaries Key: Key audit matter Significant risks not considered to be key audit matter Other areas of audit focus Movement in risk compared to prior year The factors that have caused the greatest impact on the changes in audit risk arising from significant risks are the impacts of regulatory and tax changes in the buy-to-let market and the strategic reorganisation of the Group.
The regulatory and tax changes in the buy-to-let market, together with the greater competition in this market, have introduced greater uncertainty over the expected remaining lives of current buy-to-let lending which has resulted in an increased audit risk in the area of revenue recognition on loans and advances.
The increased historical experience of asset backed loan notes and, following the Groups reorganisation, the increased availability of alternative sources of funding by the Group, have together increased information about the future expected lives of the asset backed loan notes and thereby decreased the audit risk of the recognition of interest payable on asset backed loan notes.
The conclusion by the courts of the award of costs in the Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited case has decreased the conduct and regulatory provisioning risk.
PAGE 125 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Audit Risk 3.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition on loans and advances 375.1 million 2016: 377.8 million Refer to section B4.3 Audit Committee Report, note 4 h accounting policy and notes 6 b and 16 financial disclosures The risk Subjective estimate: The recognition of revenue interest receivable on loans and advances to customers under the effective interest rate EIR method requires the directors to apply judgement, with the most critical estimate being the loans expected behavioural life for originated assets and estimated remaining collections ERCs for acquired loan portfolios.
Originated assets: The expected life assumptions utilise repayment profiles which represent how customers are expected to pay.
These profiles extend significantly into the future which creates a high level of estimation uncertainty and subjects the judgement to future market changes.
The Group makes its expected life assumptions based on its forecasting process which incorporates both historical experience and judgemental overlays by management.
The cohort of loans and advances which require the most judgement are buy-to-let products which were originated by the Group post-2010, these represent 32.9% of the Group portfolio.
Following recent developments in regulation and tax on buy-to-let products, the future expected lives of these loans are likely to be impacted by the availability to customers of re-mortgages or alternative funding from other providers, which has increased the level of judgement required over expected lives.
There is also less historical experience for the newer lending in this segment due to their relatively unseasoned nature.
Acquired loan portfolios: For the Groups acquired debt portfolio, the risk is that estimated future cash collections are not reflected by actual cash receipts.
Given the nature of the Companys debt portfolios, estimation of future cash collections requires significant judgement to make assumptions about the value, probability and timing of expected future cash flows for each type of asset class within a portfolio.
Our response Our procedures included: Originated assets: Historical comparison: We critically assessed the Groups analysis and key assumptions over the repayment profiles by comparing them to the Groups historical trends and actual portfolio behaviour: Our sector experience: We challenged the Groups repayment profiles by applying our own expectations based on our knowledge of the Group and experience of the industry in which it operates: and Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over the repayment profiles by applying alternative profiles based upon the above procedures.
Acquired loan portfolios: Historical comparison: We critically assessed the Groups cash flow forecasts by comparing them to current and past performance of the Groups portfolios, including recent cash collections.
Both portfolios: Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the revenue recognition on loans and advances to changes in key assumptions reflected in the inherent risk.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the revenue recognition on loans and advances to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
PAGE 126 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Impairment of loans and receivables 110.6 million 2016: 112.6 million Refer to section B4.3 Audit Committee Report, note 4 j accounting policy and notes 6 a, 25 and 35 financial disclosures.
The risk Subjective estimate: The impairment provision relating to the Groups loan portfolios requires the directors to make significant judgements and assumptions over the recoverability of loans and receivables.
Impairment provisions are assessed on an individual and collective basis and we consider the key assumptions and risks for each in turn.
Individual impairment: TA critical assumption is the appropriate identification of the impairment trigger.
The individual provision model uses arrears as the primary impairment trigger and for buy-to-let properties in receivership of rent, the property status vacant, held for sale or let and the cure from impaired to non-impaired.
There is a risk that other impairment triggers are not identified on a timely basis or that cured accounts remain impaired.
The other key assumption used within the model is the estimation of the quantum and timing of future cash flows on impaired loans.
This estimation includes past payment behaviour, the expected collections approach, including net rental income from the receivership of rent arrangement through its subsidiary Redbrick, and the likely collateral valuation.
Where the expected collections approach is through net rental income, a key estimate is the expected future rental period.
Collective impairment: For the purposes of the collective provision assessment, the Group calculates an emergence provision based on the previous loss experience for loans that have become individually impaired, overlaid with management judgement.
There is a risk that the overall provision is not reflective of the incurred losses at the end of the period due to the period of time assumed that it takes for incurred losses to emerge, changes in customer credit quality or other market factors not sufficiently incorporated into the model, such as the tax position of borrowers, changes in rental income on buy-to-let properties, and house prices.
Our response Our procedures included: Controls: We tested the key controls over the acceptance, monitoring and reporting of credit risk: Historical comparisons: We critically assessed the Groups assumptions on past payment behaviour, including net rental income and growth, collateral valuations and growth, the rental periods, the proportion of properties that are vacant, and emergence provisions by comparing them to the Groups historical experience: Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the Groups key assumptions on past payment behaviour and emergence period to comparable peer group organisations: Our sector experience: We challenged the Groups key assumptions on impairment triggers, cured accounts, net rental income and emergence provisions by applying our own expectations based upon our knowledge of the Group and experience of the industry in which it operates: Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over the Groups key assumptions on net rental income, rental periods, likely collateral valuations and emergence provisions based upon our findings from the above procedures: and Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the impairment of loans and receivables to changes in key assumptions reflected in the inherent risk.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the impairment of loans and receivables to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
PAGE 127 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Interest payable on asset backed loan notes 70.2 million 2016: 103.4 million Refer to section B4.3 Audit Committee Report, note 4 r accounting policy and notes 6 b and 17 financial disclosures.
The risk Subjective estimate: The recognition of interest payable on asset backed loan note liabilities under the EIR method requires the directors to apply significant judgement in forecasting the future cash flows.
The most significant judgement is the expected date of redemption, as this is under the Groups control and will be based upon commercial circumstances at the time, which includes the availability and rates of alternative funding.
Due to the significant carrying value of the loan notes, small changes in the expected redemption date or in the methodology used to recognise interest payable would have a significant effect on the Groups interest payable and the carrying amount of the liability.
Our response Our procedures included: Methodology choice: We critically assessed the methodology used to recognise interest over the expected life of the loan notes against our interpretation of the requirements of the relevant accounting standards: Historical comparison: We compared the expected date of redemption to the Groups historical experience of similar arrangements: Our sector experience: We critically assessed the expected date of redemption against the Groups latest three year plans and anticipated movements in market and regulatory conditions which may affect the availability and attractiveness of alternative sources of funding: and Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the interest payable on asset backed loan notes to changes in key assumptions reflected in the inherent risk.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the interest payable on asset backed loan notes to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Recoverability of goodwill 98.1 million 2016: 98.4 million Refer to section B4.3 Audit Committee Report, note 4 d accounting policy and note 42 financial disclosures.
The risk Forecast-based valuation: Goodwill is significant and at risk of irrecoverability due to changes in market factors since acquisition.
The estimated recoverable amount is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows.
In calculating the recoverable amount, the directors made assumptions over the following key inputs: profitability growth, the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
Our response Our procedures included: Historical comparisons: We compared the Groups previous forecasting with actual results: Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, terminal growth, cost inflation and discount rates: Sensitivity analysis: We performed breakeven analysis and applied alternative scenarios based on the assumptions noted above: and Assessing transparency: We critically assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
PAGE 128 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Retirement benefit obligation valuation 128.1 million 2016: 162.5 million Refer to section B4.3 Audit Committee Report, note 4 x accounting policy and note 54 financial disclosures.
The risk Subjective valuation Small changes in the assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups pension obligation before deducting scheme assets would have a significant effect on the Groups net pension deficit.
Accounting treatment As detailed in section B5.2.
2, during the year three executive directors and other senior management undertook voluntary transfers out of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The determination by the directors that the transfers out did not contain an enhancement to benefits for the individuals and so do not represent a plan amendment requires judgement.
Our response Our procedures included: Benchmarking assumptions: We critically assessed, with the support of our own actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy against externally derived data: Accounting analysis: Using our own pensions and technical accounting specialists, we critically assessed whether the accounting treatment applied to the voluntary transfers out was appropriate: and Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions and the transfers out.
Our results We found the valuation of the pension obligation to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
We found the accounting treatment of the voluntary transfers out to be appropriate.
Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries 819.1 million 2016: 984.8 million Refer to note 4 o accounting policy and notes 43 and 65 financial disclosures.
The risk Low risk, high value The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in subsidiaries represents 70.9% 2016: 67.9% of the companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our response Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the impairment of investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
PAGE 129 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 4 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole was set at 6m, determined with reference to a benchmark of consolidated profit before tax, of 144.8m, of which it represents 4.1% 2016: 4.1%.
Materiality for the Company financial statements as a whole was set at 3.9m 2016: 3.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company net assets, of which it represents 0.6% 2016: 0.5%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2016: 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP MATERIALITY 144.8m 6m 2016: 143.2m 2016: 5.8m 6m Whole financial statements materiality 2016: 5.8m 5.5m Range of materiality at two components 1.5m - 5.5m 2016: Four out of five components in scope at 0.8m - 3.7m 0.3m Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016: 0.3m Following the Groups strategic reorganisation, we identified two components 2016: five both of which were subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes.
Component A is comprised of the Idem Capital, Mortgages and Central segments: component B is comprised of the Commercial Lending segment.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
Group profit before tax Group revenue Group total assets 14.8% 7.4% 5% 100% 100% 100% 2016: 99.1% 2016: 99.7% 2016: 100% 85.2% 92.6% 95% Component A - Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Component B - Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 The group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1.5m to 5.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
This year, the work on both of the components, including the audit of the Company, was performed by the group team.
In 2016, the audit one of the five components Paragon Asset Finance was performed by a component audit team separate to the Group team.
PAGE 130 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 5 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: We have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 4 c to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or The related statement under the Listing Rules set out in section A4 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
6 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: We have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: In our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and In our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The directors confirmation within the Future Prospects section, Section A4, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: The Principal Risks disclosures, in Section B6.5, describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and The directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or The section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
PAGE 131 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 7 We have nothing to report on other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
8 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out in Section B8, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
9 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Walker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 23 November 2017 PAGE 132 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts PAGE 133 Independant Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts D. THE ACCOUNTS Showing the financial position, results and cash flows of the Group and the Company prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK law PAGE 136 D1 Primary Financial Statements PAGE 136 D1.1 Consolidated Income Statement PAGE 136 D1.2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income D1.3 Consolidated Balance Sheet PAGE 137 D1.4 Company Balance Sheet PAGE 138 D1.5 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement PAGE 139 D1.6 Company Cash Flow Statement PAGE 139 PAGE 140 D1.7 Consolidated Statement of Movements in Equity PAGE 141 D1.8 Company Statement of Movements in Equity PAGE 142 D2 Notes to the Accounts
