CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSP GROUP PLC ONLY 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of SSP Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards for the year ended 30 September 2017 which comprise the on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we other comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the cash flow statement, and the related notes, including the accounting audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 20 September In our opinion: 2006.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is the 11years ended 30 September 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Overview adopted by the European Union: Materiality: Group 10.5m 2016: 10.0m financial statements as 0.4% 2016: 0.5% of Group revenue the parent company financial statements have been properly a whole prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Coverage 80% 2016: 84% of Group revenue Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Recurring risks Recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the intangible assets and of parents investment Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in subsidiary undertakings Completeness, existence and accuracy of current and deferred tax 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit material misstatement significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
statements andinclude the most significant assessed risks of These matters were addressed, and our results are based on material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose us, including those whichhad the greatest effect on: the overall of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of goodwill and Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: indefinite life intangible assets The carrying amount of the Groups Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged the assumptions for key inputs and of parents investment in goodwill and indefinite life assets, and the used by the Group in their forecasts, such as projected market growth, subsidiary undertakings parent companys cost of investment in future capital expenditure levels, revenue growth rates, cost projections subsidiaries, is significant, representing and inflation, by comparing them to external data, industry norms and our Goodwill and indefinite life 50.7% of total Group assets and 100% intangible assets 2017: 688.5m: expectations based on our knowledge and experience of the Group.
of total Company assets respectively.
2016: 676.1m: investment in Our valuation expertise: Our valuation specialists assisted us in assessing Whilst the estimate of the recoverability subsidiaries 2017: 932.1m, the appropriateness of the methodology and assumptions used by the of both of these amounts, being based on Group, including discount rates and growth rates.
2016: 925.8m forecast future cash flows, is inherently Refer to page 35 Audit Sensitivity analysis: We applied sensitivities to key assumptions to assess subjective and is affected by general Committee Report, page 70 and their impact on the recoverability of the assets.
economic and political trends such 101 note 1 accounting policies Historical comparisons: We evaluated the historical accuracy of the Groups as levels of discretionary travel and forecasts by comparing actual to budgeted results.
and page 80 and 102 financial consumer spending, there has historically disclosures.
Our sector experience: We corroborated our understanding of any changes been a sufficient level of headroom in the in the business with the Groups forecasts and considered whether or not Directors impairment calculations and these had been appropriately captured in the impairment models.
we did not identify any indicators which Comparing valuations: We compared the results of the discounted cash would have resulted in the recoverability flows against the Groups market capitalisation, after adjusting for its of these balances being subject to high debt to determine if there were any significant differences requiring risk of material misstatement.
due to their materiality in the context Assessing transparency: We also considered the adequacy of the Groups of the relevant financial statements, disclosure of the key risks and whether that disclosure reflected the risks they are considered to be two of the inherent in the valuation of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets.
areas that had the greatest effect on our Our results overall audit of the Group and the parent We found the resulting estimates of the following to be acceptable: company.
recoverable amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in the Groups financial statements: and recoverable amount of investment in parent companys financial statements.
58 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The risk Our response Completeness, existence Subjective estimate Our procedures included: and accuracy of current and The Group operates in numerous tax Our tax expertise: We used our own tax specialists to assist us in assessing deferred tax.
The interpretation of tax and challenging the assumptions and judgements made by the Group.
law can be complex and judgemental.
We considered all significant differences between the statutory and net current tax liability Differences in tax laws may have a 22.0m:2016: 19.5m, andnet effective rates in each jurisdiction and assessed whether adjustments significant impact on how the Group fromaccounting profit to taxable profit are in accordance with local laws.
deferred tax asset: calculates its current and deferred tax 9.0m: 2016:6.0m Weconsidered whether the tax provisions made by the Group and the liabilities.
Additionally, the outcomes underlying assumptions are appropriate.
Refer to page 36 Audit of tax audits and related tax provisions Our sector experience: In assessing the Groups calculations, we have Committee Report, page may be different to those anticipated used our knowledge of recent tax cases and our awareness of the pattern 72 note1 accounting by the Group.
The amount and timing of recent tax settlements.
We have also considered developments in the policies and page 78 and 82 of recognition of deferred tax assets attitudes of tax authorities globally and discussed issues with the Directors financialdisclosures.
involves judgement, as it is based on in order to determine whether the tax provisions made by the Group were specific considerations, such as the reasonable.
future profitability of the business in Comparing assumptions: In assessing the level of deferred tax asset various jurisdictions, local tax law and balances recognised in the consolidated balance sheet, we compared availability of temporary differences, the assumptions used in respect of future taxable income to the Groups such as an excess of capital allowances long-term forecasts and budget for the relevant jurisdictions.
over depreciation or tax losses.
Assessing transparency: We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of current and deferred taxes.
Our results We found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable, and the level of deferred tax assets recognised to be recoverable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope The remaining 20% of total Group revenue, 9% of group profit ofour audit before tax and 16% of total Group assets is represented by Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set sixreporting components, none of which individually represented at 10.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group more than 4% of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax revenue of 2,379.1m 2016: 1,990.3m, of which it represents or total group assets.
For these residual components, we performed 0.4% 2016: 0.5%.
We consider revenue to be the most appropriate analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year-on-year than that there were no significant risks of material misstatement Group profit before tax.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the was set at 8.4m 2016: 8.0m, determined with reference to a significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 1% above and the information to be reported back.
team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 8.4m 2016: 0.2m to 8m, having regard to the mix of We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work identified misstatements exceeding 0.5m 2016: 0.5m, in on nine of the Groups 15 components was performed by component addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
In 2017, the Group audit team visited three of the 15 2016: five Of the Groups 15 2016: 15 reporting components, we subjected 9 component locations.
Video and telephone conference meetings 2016: 9 to full scope audits for group purposes.
were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and The components within the scope of our work accounted for the meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were percentages illustrated opposite.
Two reporting components discussed in more detail.
subjected to reviews in 2016 were not included for review in the current year as they were not individually financially significant so as to require a full scope audit for group purposes, and no specific individual risks that needed to be addressed had arisen from our previous reviews.
59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSP GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Group revenue Group materiality, .
m. m Whole financial statements materiality :.
m. m Range of materiality at nine components.
m Group materiality Misstatements reported to the Audit Commiee :.
m Group profit before tax Group total assets Group revenue  : : : Full scope for Group audit purposes Full scope for Group audit purposes Review procedures none in Residual components 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, We are required to report to you if: the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material other information.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Strategic report and Directors report Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or Based solely on our work on the other information: if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 55 we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
report and the Directors report: We have nothing to report in these respects.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the annual report in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the annual report together with the financial statements.
Directors remuneration report Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance Companies Act 2006. conclusion thereon.
60 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial with the accounting records and returns: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal we have not received all the information and explanations we risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its require for our audit.
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining 7.
Respective responsibilities how they are being managed and mitigated: and Directors responsibilities the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 57, have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial they have done so and why they considered that period to be statements including being satisfied that they give a true and appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Corporate Governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether we have identified material inconsistencies between the the financial statements as a whole are free from material knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit and understandable and provides the information necessary for conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise business model and strategy: or from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material the section of the annual report describing the work of the if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not Listing Rules for our review.
just those directly affecting the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs Based solely on our work on the other information described above: website at www.
with respect to the Corporate Governance report disclosures 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe about internal control and risk management systems in relation to our responsibilities financial reporting processes and about share capital structures: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. we have not identified material misstatements therein: and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the information therein is consistent with the financial Companys members those matters we are required to state to them statements: and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone in our opinion, the Corporate Governance report has been prepared other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for in accordance with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, John Cain in our opinion: Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Chartered Accountants company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 15 Canada Square from branches not visited by us: or London, E14 5GL 21 November 2017 61
