Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: The Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30th September 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union The parent company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation We have audited the Financial Statements of Electra Private Equity PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group which comprise: The Consolidated Income Statement The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income The Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity The Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement The related Notes 1 to 24 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
66 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of unquoted investments Accuracy and occurrence of realised gains on disposal Accuracy, cut off and occurrence of incentive scheme expense and provisions Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key o audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
g Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 7.6 million which was determined on the basis of 1% of NAV.
Scoping Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing risks of material misstatement at the Group and subsidiary level.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of the Company and Electra Investments Limited, an investment holding company that is 100% owned by Electra Private Equity PLC.
These were both subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30th September 2017.
Significant changes in our This is the first year that the audit has been performed by Deloitte LLP for Electra approach Private Equity PLC and its subsidiaries.
Through our risk assessment we identified that the key audit matters discussed below are consistent with the previous auditors key areas of focus, except for the key audit matter titled: Accuracy and occurrence of realised gains on disposal.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 24 to the Financial Statements and the report of the Directors on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report, on page 9.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The disclosures on pages 6 to 8 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are We confirm that we have being managed or mitigated nothing material to add The Directors confirmation on page 6 that they have carried out a robust assessment or draw attention to in of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business respect of these matters.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity The Directors statement in Note 24 to the Financial Statements about whether they We agreed with the considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Directors adoption of the them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the parent going concern basis of companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date accounting and we did of approval of the Financial Statements not identify any such The Directors explanation on page 9 as to how they have assessed the prospects of material uncertainties.
the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be However, because appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that not all future events or the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due conditions can be over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention predicted, this statement to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or is not a guarantee as to Whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the the Groups ability to Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent continue as a going with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of unquoted investments g Key audit matter The valuation of unquoted investments of 321 million 2016: 1,696 million held by the description Group involves the use of a significant degree of judgement in estimating fair value and applying the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation IPEV guidelines, including the judgement required in deciding on the valuation method.
We have therefore identified a potential risk of fraud in this key audit matter.
The valuation method used included an earnings multiple approach where an appropriate and reasonable multiple is applied to earnings.
It is often calculated by taking a discount to the multiple of comparable, listed companies.
The discount reflects points of difference between the listed companies and the Company being valued.
Such points of difference discounts could reflect differences in size, geographical footprint or end markets, for instance.
Key inputs to the valuation include the selection of comparable listed companies, the maintainable earnings of the Company and the discounts applied to take account of points of difference to the multiples of the comparable listed companies.
Determining both the valuation methodologies to be used and the key inputs to the valuations are subjective judgements, and this along with the significance of the unquoted investments to the balance sheet of the Group made this a key area of focus for our audit.
See pages 64 and 65 to the Financial Statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and the financial instruments Note 19 on pages 45 to 47 for further information.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls around the valuation of audit responded to unquoted investments at both Epiris Managers LLP the previous investment manager the key audit matter in respect of the period up to 31st May 2017 and the Group for the period 1st June to 30th September 2017.
The relevant control identified is the valuation committee approval which includes a three stage review process with subsequent sign off and is performed twice a year.
We tested the valuations of the unquoted investments by critically assessing the methodology applied and the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions and judgements.
We evaluated significant inputs to the valuations and agreed these to supporting documentation such as earnings, revenue and capital structure information provided by the underlying businesses, and the market multiples, comparable companies and points of difference used by the Company in the valuations, analysing year on year movements and testing their arithmetical accuracy.
68 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How the scope of our Five of these unquoted investments were valued by applying a discounted multiple to audit responded to the maintainable earnings and as such the key assumptions influencing the valuations are: key audit matter 1.
The basket of comparable listed companies selected.
We examined managements continued choice of comparables and assessed them for reasonableness.
In addition, we tested the completeness of the basket by compiling an alternative list of potential comparable companies and challenged managements rationale for not including these.
We challenged managements rationale for the points of difference discounts applied to the multiple and assessed the discounts for reasonableness.
The earnings amounts to which the multiple is applied to arrive at the enterprise value has been analysed for indications of bias and potential adjustable items that are not considered maintainable in the future.
We reviewed whether the valuations were carried out in accordance with the IPEV guidelines.
Key observations Based on the audit work performed no material misstatements or significant deficiencies have been identified.
Accuracy and occurrence of realised gains on disposal o Key audit matter Realised gains of 193 million 2016: 665 million have been recognised in relation to description disposals of investments during the year.
There is a risk that the realised gains on disposal are not accurately recorded.
We consider this to be a key audit matter because these balances are used to calculate the investment returns that have been made by the Group.
In addition, there is the theoretical incentive for management to overstate these balances in order to improve the calculated investment returns.
See page 45 to 47 of the Financial Statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and the investments held at fair value Note 13 on page 36 for further information.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of the key controls over recognition of audit responded to the realised gains on disposal and any allocation between the revenue and capital columns key audit matter in the Financial Statements.
We tested 99% of the gains on disposal by agreeing the proceeds receivable on disposal of investments to supporting documentation such as sale agreements and bank statements and we recalculated the gain on disposal based on the carrying value of the investment as at the date of disposal.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Accuracy and occurrence of incentive scheme expense and provisions g Key audit matter Incentive scheme provisions comprise amounts payable to certain members of Epiris description Managers LLP by way of remuneration for investment management services provided.
They are recorded in the Financial Statements as follow: Carried interest charge to the income statement for the year 26 million 2016: 122 million, provision as at the year end 29 million 2016: 243 million : and Priority Profit Share PPS charge to the income statement for the year 23 million 2016: 29 million, provision as at year end nil 2016: nil.
The incentive scheme provisions are calculated based on: The gross value of investments held by the Group: and Total investment returns including realised gains on disposal and investment income.
In some instances, the percentages are variable based on when certain returns are achieved.
In addition, the amounts to be provided for these schemes rely, in part, on the valuation of unlisted investments which is inherently judgemental.
As a result there is an increased risk of error in the calculation of the provision for incentive scheme costs.
The risk is also increased by the fact that the calculations are performed in house and also by the fact that the investment management and finance functions transferred to Electra Private Equity from 1st June 2017.
See pages 62 to 64 of the Financial Statements for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies and Note 23 for further information.
How the scope of our We have recalculated 100% of carried interest and priority profit share expense and accruals audit responded to the together incentive schemes by performing the following tests: key audit matter Assessed the design and implementation of key controls over the calculation of incentive scheme costs and provisions.
Recalculated the amounts due to Epiris and its representatives using the methodology and fee rates set out in the underlying agreements.
Agreed the key inputs to the calculations relating to gains on investments to our audit work in relation to the disposal of and valuation of investments both discussed above.
Agreed the payments made under incentive schemes to bank statements.
70 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 7.6 million 2016: 36 million Basis for determining 1% of NAV materiality The prior year materiality of 36 million was determined by the previous auditor on the basis of 1.75% of NAV.
The Group materiality figure has reduced significantly in the current year due to the significant reduction in the investments held by the Group as at year end following the return of capital to Shareholders in the period.
A benchmark percentage of 1% of NAV is standard for the audits of investment trusts and is in line with Deloitte LLP methodology.
Rationale for the We used NAV as the basis for our materiality calculation because we consider that the net benchmark applied asset position is a key consideration in the evaluation of the Groups performance because it is significantly impacted by the valuation of investments.
In addition, the NAV is a generally accepted benchmark used for the calculation of materiality by the auditors of investment companies.
Materiality Group materiality 7.6m NAV 758m EIL materiality 5.78m Audit and Risk Committee reporting threshold 0.38m NAV Group materiality We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.38 million 2016 predecessor auditor: 1.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This threshold is calculated at 5% of materiality by both Deloitte LLP and the predecessor auditor, and therefore the decrease is a result of the reduction of materiality as noted above.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of the Company and Electra Investments Limited, an investment holding Company that is 100% owned by Electra Private Equity PLC.
Electra Investments Limited also requires an audit of its own statutory financial statements, which was performed at the same time as the audit of the Group, and this was performed at a local materiality level of 5.78 million.
The audit work we have carried out includes the review of the Limited Partnerships and the audit of Electra Investments Limited, along with our work auditing the consolidation, provided sufficient audit evidence for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Other information We have nothing The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our auditors to report in respect report thereon.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
72 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to Matters on which we are required to report by exception report in respect of Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or The Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report report in respect of to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by Audit and Risk Committee on 22nd January 2017 to audit the Financial Statements for the Group and Electra Investments Limited for the year ending 30th September 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 1 year, being the year from 1st October 2016 to 30th September 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
David Barnes Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6th December 2017 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Sentinel Performance Solutions Improving the performance and efficiency of residential heating and hot water systems
