About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders 1.
Our opinion is unmodified on 19 January 1997.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of Bellway p. l. c. engagement is the 20 years ended 31 July 2017.
We have the Company for the year ended 31 July 2017 which fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain comprise the Group income statement, Group and Company independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical statements of comprehensive income, statements of requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied changes in equity, balance sheets, cash flow statements and to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services the related notes, including the accounting policies.
prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview In our opinion: Materiality: 26 million 2016 - 23 million the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group financial statements 4.6% 2016 - 4.8% of Group state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 July 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year as a whole profit before tax then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly 99% 2016 - 99% of Group prepared in accordance with International Financial Coverage profit before tax Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Risk of material misstatement vs 2016 IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Recurring risks Gross Profit recognition the parent Company financial statements have been on current sites and properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by carrying amount of land the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of held for development the Companies Act 2006: and and work in progress Investments in the financial statements have been prepared in subsidiaries accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
75 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. continued 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016 in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Accounts The risk Our response Group: Carrying amount of Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: land held for development The gross profit recognised Control design: Evaluating the Groups site valuation and work in progress on current sites and the process upon which the site gross profit margin is based.
2,934 million 2016 2,532 carrying value of land held This includes assessing the frequency of site valuations and million.
for development and work assessing the process for authorising and recording incurred Gross profit 662 million in progress is reliant on the costs in the site valuations.
Groups forecasts of the Control observation: Attending a selection of site valuation future selling price and the Refer to page 48 Audit meetings to assess whether divisional senior management build costs, both of which Committee Report, pages sufficiently challenge the latest site valuations.
are uncertain and can vary 86 and 89 accounting Test of details: For all sites with unit sales during the year, with market conditions.
policies and note 13 comparing the gross margin recognised in the accounts on page 97 financial to the latest site valuation and corroborate any significant disclosures.
differences by checking whether the differences in the margin recognised are supported by changes in valuations.
This includes corroborating explanations received from divisional management in respect of undeveloped land and site valuations to underlying planning and legal documents and quantity surveyor assessments where applicable.
Benchmarking assumptions: Across all divisions, challenging judgements made by divisional management on site valuations and undeveloped land based on our knowledge of the Group and the industry.
Historical comparisons: Comparing budgeted and latest site valuations to assess the Groups ability to accurately forecast.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in calculating the gross margin and carrying value of land and work in progress.
Our results We found the level of gross profit recognised to be acceptable.
We found the carrying value of land and work in progress to be acceptable.
Parent: Investments in Subjective estimate: Comparing valuations: Evaluating the audit procedures subsidiaries 37 million performed over the subsidiaries net assets, and comparing The estimated recoverable 2016 - 35 million.
the carrying value of investments in the parents accounts to amount of investments the net assets within the subsidiary accounts: and Refer to page 86 is subjective due to the accounting policies and inherent uncertainty Tests of details: Inspection of the latest available audited note 11 on pages 95 and 96 involved in forecasting accounts and consideration of the work performed by the financial disclosures.
the future cash flows of an Group audit team in respect of current year results.
Our results We found the carrying value of investments to be acceptable.
76 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Profit before tax Group Materiality 3.
Our application of materiality and an 26 million 2016 - 23 million 561 million overview of the scope of our audit 2016 - 498 million 26 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was Whole financial set at 26 million, determined with reference to a benchmark statements materiality of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4.6% 2016 - 2016 - 23 million 4.8%.
22.1 million Range of materiality Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a at 9 components whole was set at 9.7 million 2016 - 9.7 million, determined 22.1 million - 0.002 million with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of 2016 - 17.0 million which it represents 1.5% 2016 - 1.5%.
to 0.01 million 1.3 million We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Misstatements reported uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.3 million, to the Audit Committee in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted Profit before tax 2016 - 1.0 million Group materiality reporting on qualitative grounds.
The components within the Group scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement Group revenue Group profit before tax within these.
1 The Group team approved the component materialities, 1 which ranged from 22.1 million to 0.002 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all components, including 100% 99% the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the 2016 - 100% 2016 - 99% Group team.
99 99 Group total assets 1 1 99% 2016 - 99% 99 99 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Residual Components 2017 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Residual Components 2016 77 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. continued Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 4.
We have nothing to report Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial on going concern statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw We are required to report to you if: attention to in relation to: we have anything material to add or draw attention to the directors confirmation within the Long-Term Viability in relation to the directors statement on page 85 on the Statement on page 21 that they have carried out a robust use of the going concern basis of accounting with no assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over including those that would threaten its business model, the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period future performance, solvency and liquidity: of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the Risk Management disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on mitigated: and page 21 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the Long-Term Viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other why they considered that period to be appropriate, and information in the Annual Report their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The directors are responsible for the other information in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due presented in the Annual Report together with the financial over the period of their assessment, including any statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not qualifications or assumptions.
express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Long-Term Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in Our responsibility is to read the other information and, this respect.
in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our Corporate governance disclosures audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not We are required to report to you if: identified material misstatements in the other information.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Strategic report and directors report audit and the directors statement that they consider that Based solely on our work on the other information: the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides we have not identified material misstatements in the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategic report and the directors report: Groups position and performance, business model and in our opinion the information given in those reports for strategy: or the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: the section of the annual report describing the work of the and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion those reports have been prepared in communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or accordance with the Companies Act 2006. a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Directors remuneration report We are required to report to you if the Corporate In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Governance Statement does not properly disclose a to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate with the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
78 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Based solely on our work on the other information Auditors responsibilities described above: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free with respect to the Chairmans Statement on Corporate from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other Governance disclosures about internal control and risk irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an management systems in relation to financial reporting auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of processes and about share capital structures: assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted we have not identified material misstatements therein: in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material and misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material the information therein is consistent with the financial if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be statements: and expected to influence the economic decisions of users in our opinion, the Chairmans Statement on Corporate taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not Governance has been prepared in accordance detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance and other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those 6.
We have nothing to report on the other directly affecting the financial statements.
matters on which we are required to report by exception A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the whom we owe our responsibilities parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the parent Company financial statements and the part of Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not so that we might state to the Companys members those in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone law are not made: or other than the Company and the Companys members, as a we have not received all the information and explanations body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we we require for our audit.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor 7.
Respective responsibilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Directors responsibilities Chartered Accountants As explained more fully in their statement set out on page Quayside House, 110 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX 74, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a 16 October 2017 true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
79 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
