Financial statements Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Softcat plc Opinion In our opinion: Softcat plcs financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Softcat plc, which comprise: Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income for the year then ended Statement of Financial Position as at 31 July 2017 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 26 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report pages 24 to 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the Directors confirmation page 24 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement pages 64 to 65 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability tocontinue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation pages 64 to 65 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
66 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Softcat plc Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Inappropriate revenue recognition: misstatement of revenue recognised at or near year end misstatement Rebates: misstatement of rebate income Audit scope The Company performs all transaction processing and financial statement preparation centrally in the UK and operates under one legal entity.
Our audit procedures cover a single set of accounts and our audit scope covers 100% of revenue, profit and balance sheet items by way of full scope procedures Materiality Materiality of 2.5m, which represents 5% of profit before tax Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Inappropriate revenue recognition: misstatement of revenue recognised at or near year end Supporting references in the Annual Report and Accounts: During the year the Company recognised revenue of 832m The Audit Committee Report pages 38 to 41 : 2016: 672m Accounting policies pages 76 to 81 : and We focused on this due to the susceptibility of this account to Note 2 of the Company Financial statements page 81. manual override related to year end adjustments and journals posted Key observations communicated Summary of the nature of the risk Our response to the risk totheAudit Committee Revenue is a key value driver To gain assurance that the requirements for We concluded that revenue is forthe business as a whole and revenue recognition have been met during the materially correct and has been isone of the key performance period, we tested the two-way correlation between recognised in accordance with indicators used to measure the revenue and trade receivables and three-way Company policy and IFRSs.
correlation between revenue, trade receivables and cash for the year.
We also tested other revenue and The Company may at times be receivables transactions that didnt conform to our under pressure to meet ambitious expectation of typical revenue postings.
growth targets and analyst expectations as a newly listed We performed substantive testing on a sample entity.
When targets are exceeded ofdeferred revenue transactions taken from the there may be a risk that revenue is year-end deferred revenue balance to obtain inappropriately deferred into the assurance over the completeness and existence following fiscal year.
of the year-end deferred revenue balance.
Certain compensation incentives We tested revenue cut-off by obtaining and are based on quarterly and annual testingmanagements sales cut-off analysis revenue targets, creating a andindependently testing transactions therein riskofrevenue and gross onasample basis.
marginmisstatement and To address the risk of management override, management override.
wetested a sample of manual journal entries Managements process for recorded at or near year end and credit notes accounting for certain revenue issued subsequent to the year end.
transactions, particularly those at or We made inquiries of certain sales personnel and near the year end, is mostly manual management as to their awareness of sales and and therefore susceptible to discounting practices that may indicate the existence management override.
of side agreements which could impact revenue recognised during the account period.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Softcat plc Key audit matters continued Rebates: misstatement of rebate income Supporting references in the Annual Report and Accounts: During the year the Company earned rebate income of 23.6m The Audit Committee Report pages 38 to 41 : 2016: 20.1m Accounting policies pages 76 to 81 : and We focused on this due to the manual processing required, Note 1.7 of the Company Financial statements page 78. aswell as the potential for management override of controls Key observations communicated Summary of the nature of the risk Our response to the risk totheAudit Committee The rebate process is manual and We tested managements controls around the We concluded that rebate is considered complex due to the rebate process, which covers verification of income and rebate accrual is various types of contracts and amounts reported by suppliers, accuracy of the materially correct and has been contract terms.
calculated rebate receivable accrual, and a recognised in accordance with retrospective review of cash received against Company policy and IFRSs.
While most rebates are agreed with amounts accrued.
the supplier and paid duringthe year, due to a manual process there We tested transactions from throughout the year and is a potential for management to the year-end rebate receivable by vouching a sample override control.
of transactions to third party source documentation and cash receipts.
We tested the rebate income received post year-end by confirming a sample of rebates to ensure they were accrued at the year end where appropriate.
We challenged the Companys rebate accrual at year end, by assessing consistency of methodology applied with the prior year and throughout the period and classification of rebates.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Company has business operations in various locations throughout the UK: however, all transaction processing and financial statement preparation occurs centrally at the Companys headquarters in Marlow.
Additionally, as the Company operates under one legal entity, our audit is of one UK statutory entity that covers 100% of revenue, profit and balance sheet items by way of full scope procedures.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 2.5m which is 5% of profit before tax.
For the 2016 audit, we determined materiality for the Company to be 2.3m calculated as 5% of normalised profit before tax, which was calculated by adding back exceptional items related primarily to the Companys initial public offering in November 2015.
There has been no equivalent items in the current year.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the only change in final materiality was to reflect the actual reported performance of the Company in the year.
68 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Softcat plc Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment and the level of audit differences previously identified, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 1.25m 2016: 1.1m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage in order that the total amount of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed our planning materiality of 2.5m for the financial statements as a whole.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2016: 0.1m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We did not increase our reporting threshold following the increase in final materiality.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report pages 1 to 65, including the Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 29 and corporate governance set out on pages 30 to 65, other than the financial statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated inthis report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable page 64 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting pages 38 to 41 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code page 31 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose adeparture from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Financial statements Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Softcat plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report toyou if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with theaccounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due tofraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isahigh level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orinaggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of thesefinancial statements.
The objectives of our audit in respect to fraud are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement dueto fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both thosecharged with governance of the entity and management.
70 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Softcat plc Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements continued Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined thatthe most significant are those related to the reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 andCorporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures inthefinancial statements, being the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange and the Bribery Act 2010.
We understood how Softcat plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, those responsible forlegal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, discussions with the Audit Committee and any correspondence received with regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journal entries.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Ourprocedures involved review of board minutes to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations, review of reportingto the Audit Committee on compliance with regulations and enquires of the Company Secretary and management.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed as auditors by the Board of Directors and signed an engagement letter on 9 March 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 8 December 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 July 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is five years, covering the years ending 31 July 2013 to 31 July 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent ofthe Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Karl Havers for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, London 18 October 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Softcat plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration ofthese matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
