FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F S M I T H S G R O U P P L C Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Smiths Group plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet as at 31 July 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash-flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 August 2016 to 31 July 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Group financial statements: 20 million 2016: 17 million, based on 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Company financial statements: 18 million 2016: 15 million, based on 0.5% of total assets.
Materiality Audit scope We conducted full scope audits at 22 reporting units across 12 countries.
In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and transactions at 18 reporting units across North America and Canada.
Audit scope During the year, the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in North America and Europe and attended the year end clearance meetings for each division.
Key audit matters Revenue recognition, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Key audit Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Group matters Acquisition accounting Group Accounting for disposals Group Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation Group Working capital and associated provisions Group Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Group Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Group Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Group and Company 129 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F S M I T H S G R O U P P L C C O N T I N U E D The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition occurrence, together with accounting for complex For all the divisions we assessed whether the Groups revenue programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths recognition policies complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Interconnect Divisions Group and tested the implementation of those policies.
Specifically we Refer also to Accounting Policies considered whether revenue was recognised based on the transfer We focused on revenue recognition for all divisions in the Group to of the risks and rewards of ownership of goods to the customer or check that revenue has been appropriately recognised upon fulfilment the accounting period in which services were rendered by testing a of obligations.
sample of revenue items to contract and shipping documents, with a specific focus, particularly on major programmes where revenue was In the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions we focused recorded close to the year-end.
on the accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting.
The recognition of revenue is largely dependent on the terms of Where appropriate we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the underlying contract with the customer, including the nature of the operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording separate deliverables within the contract, achieving milestones within of revenue in the correct period.
those contracts and the mechanisms in the contract by which risks and rewards of goods and services are transferred to the customer.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify These contracts are usually long term in nature, sometimes spanning any unusual or irregular items, and the reconciliations between the a number of reporting periods.
This means that the final profitability systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
of a contract, which will be based upon forecast revenues and costs to complete, can be uncertain during the earlier phases.
Judgement In the case of the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions, must therefore be applied in order to estimate the profit margins to for a sample of contracts, we read extracts of the relevant customer recognise the revenue that is recorded.
agreements and tested the accounting for separate deliverables and contractual milestones.
This testing included evaluating customer Changes in conditions and circumstances over time can result in acceptance of the work done to establish whether contractual variations to the original contract terms or to the overall profitability milestones had been achieved, assessing the impact of any ongoing of the contract.
This can include cost overruns which require further disputes, and assessing the reasonableness of the directors negotiation and settlements resulting in the need for provisions.
estimates of costs to complete the contract by comparing them to actual historical costs incurred on comparable contracts.
We did not identify any material exceptions from the audit work performed and we found estimates to be in line with our expectations.
Acquisition accounting Group We obtained and read the Morpho Sale and Purchase Agreement Refer also to note 26 and 27 SPA to gain an understanding of the key terms of the acquisition.
The Group completed its acquisition of Morpho Detection from Safran SA on the 6th April 2017, resulting in the recognition of 240m of In testing this acquisition and related Trace disposal, we considered acquired intangibles, 210m of goodwill and 140m of net assets.
A whether the identified intangible assets were appropriate by reference key condition of the acquisition was the disposal of Morpho Detections to the SPA, due diligence reports and other supporting documentation.
explosive trace detection business Trace, which resulted in this We obtained the calculation of the fair value of intangible assets business being classified as a discontinued business.
acquired, and where material, assessed the methodology employed, involving experts and corroborated the inputs and assumptions to Judgement was required in identifying and valuing these acquired supporting evidence.
We noted no exceptions through performing intangibles and goodwill, determining the valuation of the other these procedures.
assets and liabilities acquired and the classification of the Trace business.
In addition, the disclosure requirements in respect of We also checked that the material fair value adjustments to the net acquisitions are extensive.
assets were consistent with the accounting standard requirements.
Based on the evidence obtained, we did not identify any indications Due to the quantum and complexity of the judgements, we focussed on that the fair value adjustments identified by management were this area.
We read the disclosures in the financial statements to satisfy ourselves that they are in line with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
130 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for disposals Group We obtained and read the relevant clauses within all the related sale Refer also to note 28 and purchase agreements SPAs to obtain an understanding of the We focussed on this area as the Group recorded significant profit perimeter and requirements of the disposal.
on disposals 175m following the divestment of its Artificial lift, Interconnect Power and Microwave Telecoms businesses during the We assessed the recycling of the currency reserve, tested the year, along with its Wallace product line disclosed in note 28 to the allocation of Wallace assets, including goodwill, and verified the financial statements mathematical accuracy of the disposal calculation.
We also tested the consideration received to supporting evidence Judgement arose in determining the value of goodwill allocated to the Wallace product line.
In addition the calculation of the disposal Finally, we read the disclosures within the financial statements to gains was complex, particularly around the recycling of accumulated ensure these met the presentation requirements of the relevant currency translation reserves.
We noted no exceptions through performing these procedures.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible In John Crane, Inc. we used our own internal experts to challenge gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation Group managements assumptions underlying the adverse judgment and Refer also to note 22 defence cost provisions.
This included an examination of the model John Crane, Inc. a US based subsidiary of the Group, is currently one maintained by managements valuation expert and evaluation of of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously the work of the expert, by considering the appropriateness of the manufactured which contained asbestos.
methodology used, the reasonableness of assumptions including the use of a rolling 10 year horizon and considering alternative outcomes, A provision of 237m has been made for the future defence costs particularly the sensitivity calculations performed.
In addition we which the Group is expected to incur and the expected costs of future tested the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations and adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc. agreed input data to source documents.
Titeflex Corporation, another US based subsidiary of the Group, has We challenged managements underlying assumptions supporting its received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking Titeflex provision.
This included an evaluation of the valuation model, recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
and the input data such as the average amount of settlements, the number of future settlements and the period over which expenditure It has also received a number of product liability claims regarding can be reasonably estimated by testing them to historic claims.
this product, some in the form of purported class actions.
A provision of 84m has been made for the costs which the Group is expected to We also discussed these matters with the Companys internal incur in respect of these claims.
legal counsel, obtained letters from external counsel and evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group We focused on these areas because there is significant judgement financial statements.
involved in the assumptions used to estimate the provisions, in particular those relating to the US litigation environment such as the We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with historical future level of claims and the cost of defence.
As a result the provision claims.
We read the disclosures and found them to be consistent with may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time.
the information we have obtained during the course of our audit.
Working capital and associated provisions Group Where appropriate, we evaluated the directors forecasted sales for Refer also to notes 13 and 14 each significant category of slow moving inventory by comparing them We focused on this area because inventory provisions include to historical sales and orders for future sales.
subjective estimates and are influenced by assumptions concerning future selling prices and the level of sales activity, and the Group We compared the historical provision for bad debts to the actual also has material levels of trade receivables that are overdue and not amounts written off, to determine whether the directors estimation impaired as disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
techniques were reasonable and considered the adequacy of provisions for bad debts for significant customers at reporting unit We focused in particular on inventory levels in those parts of the level, taking into account specific credit risk assessments.
business experiencing challenging trading environments.
We also focused on divisions with inherent judgements associated with large We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
programmes and complex contractual terms.
The key associated risks were recoverability of billed and unbilled trade receivables and the valuation of inventory.
131 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F S M I T H S G R O U P P L C C O N T I N U E D Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Group We evaluated the directors assessment as to whether there will be Refer also to note 6 sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition The Group has recognised 272m deferred tax assets on the balance of deferred tax assets by evaluating the directors future cash flow sheet, the recognition of which involves judgement by management forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up, including as to the likelihood of the realisation of these deferred tax assets.
testing the underlying calculations and comparing the forecasts to The expectation that the benefit of these assets will be realised is historical performance.
dependent on a number of factors, including appropriate taxable temporary timing differences, and whether there will be sufficient We also used our tax specialists to assess managements taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
In the current assumptions underlying the provisions for uncertain tax positions.
year the Group recognised a 69 million deferred tax asset in the We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions UK in respect of past losses following a reassessment of the future and read communications from taxation authorities to identify profitability of the Groups activities in the UK.
The Group has recognised provisions against uncertain tax positions, We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
the valuation of which is an inherently judgemental area.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number of jurisdictions.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Group We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the Refer also to notes 10 and 11 process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets calculations and comparing them to the latest Board approved on the balance sheet, as detailed in note 10 to the financial statements.
The risk is that these balances are overstated.
We challenged: Goodwill must be tested for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of valuethe directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgement in both forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic identifying and then valuing the relevant cash generating units CGUs.
and industry forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
The impairment assessment for these assets involves subjective judgements about future business performance, with key We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors forecast assumptions including cash flows, the overall long-term growth rates, performance by performing a sensitivity analysis around the key discount rates used and to the extent relevant, the fair value less costs drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
We found the assumptions to be to dispose.
consistent and in line with our expectations.
The Group also holds capitalised development costs, where the We also tested the directors assessment of the fair value less costs risk of inappropriate capitalisation or impairment may arise.
The of disposal by comparing it to external analyst valuations.
key judgements relate to the commercial viability of the products under development and related assumptions used within the related We evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note impairment assessments.
11 of the financial statements, including sensitivities provided with respect to the Morpho Detection CGU.
To address the risks around capitalised development costs we assessed the business cases supporting commercial viability, tested key assumptions within the impairment assessments, and performed sensitivity analysis.
We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Group and Company We evaluated the directors assessment of the assumptions made in Refer also to note 8 relation to the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement plans and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality assets of 390m and net post-retirement liabilities of 166m, which rates by comparing them to national and industry averages.
We also are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of the Group focussed on the valuation of pension plan liabilities and the pension and Company.
assets as follows: The valuation of the pension liabilities requires some judgement and We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
A number of the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
of the key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount We obtained third party confirmations on ownership and valuation rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of of pension assets.
We checked that the recognition of post retirement plan net assets complies with the Groups investment principles.
The pension assets include significant pension asset investments Where there was no new census data in the year we assessed the and the fair value measurement of which includes judgement.
assumptions used by the actuaries.
We tested the basis of recognition of the UK pension surplus The recognition of post-retirement plan net assets for accounting through the reading of scheme rules.
purposes is dependent on the rights of the employers to recover the surplus at the end of the life of the scheme.
132 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is organised into five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek and is a consolidation of over 250 units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group Engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 22 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 18 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
Of these, one reporting unit has been determined to be financially significant based on its contribution to Group revenue or headline operating profit.
We conducted work in 12 countries and the Group engagement team visited reporting sites in North America and Europe, and participated in each of the divisional audit clearance meetings.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for 75% 2016: 75% of the Groups revenues and 78% 2016: 79% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Further specific audit procedures over IT controls, central functions such as treasury and areas of judgement, including the accounting for acquisitions and disposals, taxation, goodwill, post-retirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and at the Groups Head Office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 20 million 2016: 17 million.
How we determined it 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark applied because, in our view, this is the metric against which the because, in our view, we consider a net asset measure performance of the Group is most commonly measured to reflect the nature of the Company, which primarily acts as a holding company for the Groups investments and holds certain liabilities on the balance sheet.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.5 million and 18 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million Group audit 2016: 0.5 million and 1 million Company audit 2016: 0.5 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of We have nothing material to add or to draw the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it attention to.
However, because not all future appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements events or conditions can be predicted, and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys this statement is not a guarantee as to the ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of Groups and Companys ability to continue approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
133 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T T O T H E M E M B E R S O F S M I T H S G R O U P P L C C O N T I N U E D In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Group directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Group directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Group directors report for the year ended 31 July 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Group directors report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 61 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 97, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 97 and 98 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 128, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
134 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 19 November 1996 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 July 1997 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 21 years, covering the years ended 31 July 1997 to 31 July 2017.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 September 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
