INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc Our audit approach Report on the financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, J D Wetherspoon plcs financial Context statements: Our 2017 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that J D Wetherspoon plcs give a true and fair view of the state of the operations were largely unchanged in nature from the companys affairs as at 30 July 2017 and of its profit previous year and the UK economy had a level of and cash flows for the 53 week period the period underlying low growth with no significant regulatory then ended: changes impacting the pub sector.
In light of this, our have been properly prepared in accordance with approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and focus was largely unchanged.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview We have audited the financial statements, included Materiality within the Annual Report and Financial Statements 5.15 million 2016: 4.03 million based on 5% of 2017 the Annual Report, which comprise: profit before tax and exceptional items the balance sheet as at 30 July 2017: Audit scope the income statement and the statement of Impairment of property, plant & equipment.
comprehensive income: Provisions for onerous leases.
the cash flow statement: Exceptional items.
the statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period then ended: and Area of focus the notes to the financial statements, which include a Impairment of property, plant & equipment.
description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
The scope of our audit Basis for opinion As part of designing our audit, we determined We conducted our audit in accordance with materiality and assessed the risks of material International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs we looked at where the directors made subjective UK are further described in the Auditors judgements, for example in respect of significant responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements accounting estimates that involved making section of our report.
We believe that the audit assumptions in particular where they involved future evidence we have obtained is sufficient and events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating Independence whether there was evidence of bias by the directors We remained independent of the company in that represented a risk of material misstatement due to accordance with the ethical requirements that are fraud.
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as Key audit matters applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have Key audit matters are those matters that, in the fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance auditors professional judgement, were of most with these requirements.
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare assessed risks of material misstatement whether or that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including Standard were not provided to the company.
those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and We have provided no non-audit services to the directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These company in the period from 25 July 2016 to 30 July matters, and any comments we make on the results of 2017. our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The items set out below are not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
44 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of property, plant and equipment We assessed managements impairment paper, underlying analysis and As set out in note 12, the Company has a supporting financial model and challenged the assumptions adopted by large portfolio of pubs with a net book value management in performing its review.
These included individual pub of 1.3 billion.
Given the size of the amounts profitability forecasts and the discount rate applied in the model.
We tested capitalised and the risk associated with any the profitability forecast in the model on an individual pub basis and sizeable retail business that some units may focused our detailed work on those pubs which had either previously been be unprofitable, we focused on the impaired or where anticipated future cash flows suggested that a potential assessment made by management of the impairment may be required.
We used our valuation specialists and need for any impairment of property, plant external market data to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate and equipment required at an individual pub used.
No issues were noted with the underlying model or assumptions level.
made by management in their review.
We tested, with reference to the entire pub estate, that all pubs which initial assessments identified as having a heightened risk of potentially not generating sufficient cash to cover the capital base, were subject to more detailed scrutiny.
No issues arose from this work.
We discussed the action plans in place and evaluated the reasonableness of those plans, where possible, for underperforming pubs where no impairment had been booked.
We further tested whether the required pub profitability improvement had ever been attained by the relevant pub historically.
We then scrutinised detailed analysis of individual pubs performance and action plans in place to enhance profitability to corroborate explanations provided to us by management as to the decision to impair or not, or to reverse a previous impairment.
In addition, we challenged management in relation to certain pubs where impairments were booked as to whether their decision to impair was appropriate.
Our view was that whilst the process that management followed to determine any impairment reversal involved significant judgements, it was robust and that the impairments and reversals booked were reasonable.
Furthermore, there was no obvious indication of bias in the adjustments booked.
For pubs sold during the year, including those disposed of as part of the pub disposal programme, we agreed the sales proceeds to completion statements and bank statements, considered the appropriateness of costs associated with the sale and recalculated the profit loss gain on disposal with no issues being identified in our work performed.
For the sites classified as held for sale we verified that sales contracts had been exchanged prior to the balance sheet date and that completion date for the transaction was within 12 months.
Through our testing, we confirmed that the company has appropriately measured these assets at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
For the closed sites included within the disposal programme, we verified that the net book value was written to zero and onerous lease provisions were recorded as necessary.
At the year end, there were ten leasehold sites where management had informed the landlords they planned to exit the site at the next break date: these were all included within the pub disposal programme.
Management wrote down the value of these sites to the net present value of future cash flows which represented the value in these sites that can be recovered through trade.
We viewed correspondence between J D Wetherspoon and their landlords, reviewed managements calculation of the impairment charge and considered assumptions within the model, all of which were concluded as reasonable.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for onerous leases We checked and validated that all pubs in the portfolio were considered in Of the portfolio of pubs noted in the area of focus the process which management used to identify pubs which were above, a large number are leasehold and, as a potentially subject to onerous leases.
result, the company is committed to significant future lease payments as set out in note 25 to the We tested details of rental obligations to rental agreements for a sample of financial statements.
pubs in order to assess whether the rental commitments used by In the case of the Companys leasehold pubs, management in its calculations were appropriate with no issues arising there is a risk that underperforming pubs may not from this work.
be able to meet their future lease obligations and, as a result, require an onerous lease provision.
As We checked the calculations used by management to identify pubs where set out in note 22, the company holds a provision indications existed, for individual pubs, that future profits are not expected of 4.0 million for future lease obligations where to cover future lease commitments associated with the related pub.
No the cost of those obligations exceeds the economic issues arose to suggest that any pubs had been inappropriately excluded benefits expected to be received under the lease.
We focused on this area because of the size of the leasehold portfolio, the significant judgements For all pubs identified as potentially having onerous leases we tested the involved in identifying which pubs require a calculation of the net present value of future cash flows used to determine provision and the estimates involved in the the provisions recorded.
Additionally we assessed the appropriateness of calculation of the provision, including estimation of the risk-free rate used to discount the provision by comparing it with the future cash flows at each pub and appropriate Companys marginal borrowing rate satisfying ourselves that the discount discount rates.
rate and provisions booked were appropriate.
We further checked that the disclosures in the financial statements, in relation to onerous lease provisions fairly reflected the results of the calculations undertaken.
In instances where surrender premiums had been agreed, we agreed this back to third-party documentation.
Exceptional items We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the financial As set out in note 4 the financial statements statements by assessing whether the classification was in line with the include a net charge of 20.9 million of in respect Companys accounting policy on exceptional items set out on page 36of of exceptional items.
We focused on this area the financial statements.
We found that the classifications determined by because exceptional items are not defined by management complied with the Companys definition of exceptional items.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and it therefore requires judgment by the directors to We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and whether identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and separating out the items included within exceptional items enhanced the disclosing items as exceptional is important to understanding of the financial statements.
maintain comparability of the results year on year.
There were four exceptional items in the year: a net charge in relation to costs associated with the pub disposal programme, other property losses that consist of a net impairment charge against property and a net charge against onerous leases, a one-off gain as a result of transferring two interest rate swaps to other banks and a reduction in the deferred tax liability as a consequence of a decrease in the tax rates expected to apply in future.
We specifically discussed with management and the Audit Committee the treatment of gains and losses relating to the disposal programme as exceptional whilst other property gains and losses were not treated as exceptional.
Consistent with the prior year, we accepted managements' view that given the significance of the disposal programme, it was appropriate to separately highlight the net impact of this on the financial statements as exceptional.
Given the significance of the change in the tax rate on future deferred tax liabilities, we felt it was appropriate to show this as exceptional.
We considered the classification and disclosure of the exceptional items to be materially correct 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT How we tailored the audit scope Outcome We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we We have nothing material to add or to draw attention performed enough work to be able to give an opinion to.
However, because not all future events or on the financial statements as a whole, taking into conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a account the structure of the company, the accounting guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a processes and controls, and the industry in which it going concern.
Reporting obligation The Company comprises one legal entity in the UK with We are required to report if the directors statement an immaterial branch in the Republic of Ireland and, relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing accordingly, our audit is focused on J D Wetherspoon Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our plc in the UK.
No significant work is performed on the knowledge obtained in the audit.
Republic of Ireland branch as a standalone entity, owing to its immateriality.
Outcome We have nothing to report.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our Reporting on other information application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative The other information comprises all of the information thresholds for materiality.
These, together with in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the other than the financial statements and our auditors scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the our audit procedures on the individual financial other information.
Our opinion on the financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating statements does not cover the other information and, the effect of misstatements, both individually and in accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as In connection with our audit of the financial statements, follows: our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or Overall materiality our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 5.15 million 2016: 4.03 million.
appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material How we determined it misstatement, we are required to perform procedures 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of Rationale for benchmark applied the other information.
If, based on the work we have Given the company is a profit orientated business, we performed, we conclude that there is a material believe that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional misstatement of this other information, we are required items, provides us with a consistent year on year basis to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on for determining materiality, by eliminating the nonthese responsibilities.
recurring disproportionate impact of these items.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would and Corporate Governance Statement, we also report to them misstatements identified during our audit considered whether the disclosures required by the UK above 257,000 2016: 201,000 as well as Companies Act 2006 have been included.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Going concern Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters Reporting obligation as described below required by ISAs UK unless We are required to report if we have anything material otherwise stated.
to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Strategic Report and Directors Report directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial course of the audit, the information given in the statements and the directors identification of any Strategic Report and Directors Report for the period material uncertainties to the companys ability to ended 30 July 2017 is consistent with the financial continue as a going concern over a period of at least statements and has been prepared in accordance with twelve months from the date of approval of the financial applicable legal requirements.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In light of the knowledge and understanding of the We have nothing material to add or to draw company and its environment obtained in the course of attention to.
the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors We have nothing to report having performed a review Report.
CA06 of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Corporate Governance Statement company and statement in relation to the longer-term In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the viability of the company.
Our review was substantially course of the audit, the information given in the less in scope than an audit and only consisted of Corporate Governance Statement on pages 63 to 68 making inquiries and considering the directors process about internal controls and risk management systems supporting their statements: checking that the in relation to financial reporting processes and about statements are in alignment with the relevant share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the and 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Code : and considering whether the statements are Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the knowledge and understanding of consistent with the financial statements and has been the company and its environment obtained in the prepared in accordance with applicable legal course of the audit.
CA06 Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our In light of the knowledge and understanding of the responsibility to report when: company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material the statement given by the directors, on page 52 that misstatements in this information.
CA06 they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the information necessary for the members to assess the course of the audit, the information given in the companys position and performance, business model Corporate Governance Statement on pages 63 to 68 and strategy is materially inconsistent with our with respect to the companys corporate governance knowledge of the company obtained in the course of code and practices and about its administrative, performing our audit.
management and supervisory bodies and their the section of the Annual Report on page 65 committees complies with rules 7.2.
7 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not of the DTR.
CA06 appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have nothing to report arising from our the directors statement relating to the companys responsibility to report if a corporate governance compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a statement has not been prepared by the company.
departure from a relevant provision of the Code CA06 specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would Directors Remuneration threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We have nothing material to add or draw attention to accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 regarding: Responsibilities for the financial statements and the directors confirmation on page 52 of the Annual the audit Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including Responsibilities of the directors for the financial those that would threaten its business model, future statements performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe As explained more fully in the Statement of directors those risks and explain how they are being managed or responsibilities set out on page 51, the directors are mitigated.
responsible for the preparation of the financial the directors explanation on page 52 of the Annual statements in accordance with the applicable Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of framework and for being satisfied that they give a true the company, over what period they have done so and and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for why they consider that period to be appropriate, and such internal control as they determine is necessary to their statement as to whether they have a reasonable enable the preparation of financial statements that are expectation that the company will be able to continue in free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over or error.
the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
48 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In preparing the financial statements, the directors are Appointment responsible for assessing the companys ability to Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, we were appointed by the members on 25 March 1984 matters related to going concern and using the going to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 concern basis of accounting unless the directors either July 1984 and subsequent financial periods.
The period intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, of total uninterrupted engagement is 34 years, covering or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
During 2017 management ran an audit tender process for the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the audit of the company for the 2018 financial year.
We financial statements did not participate in this process having regard to the length of time we had served as auditors and hence Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance this is the last year that we will report on the companys about whether the financial statements as a whole are financial statements.
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always for and on behalf of  LLP detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are London considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 14 September 2017 they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of a The maintenance and integrity of the these financial statements.
J D Wetherspoon plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not A further description of our responsibilities for the audit involve consideration of these matters and, of the financial statements is located on the FRCs accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for website at: www.
This any changes that may have occurred to the financial description forms part of our auditors report.
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Use of this report b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared preparation and dissemination of financial statements for and only for the companys members as a body in may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 49
