INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Report on the audit of the financial statements preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Opinion Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Basis for opinion Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 1 July 2017 and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of the Groups profit for the year then ended: on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in under those standards are further described in the auditors accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by report.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : We are independent of the Group and the parent company in the parent company financial statements have been properly accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we Companies Act 2006: and have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated and company statements of comprehensive income: the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and company balance sheets: the consolidated cash flow statement: the notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 28 and to the parent company financial statements 1 to 18.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts Govia Thameslink Railway GTR operational and financial challenges resulting from industrial action, infrastructure replacement and related issues Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions Valuation of uninsured liabilities Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosure Revenue recognition for the bus division Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 6.65m which was determined as 5% of statutory pre-tax profit.
Scoping Full audit procedures were performed over 98% of the Groups total assets, 98% of the Groups revenue, and 99% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes in our approach In the prior year, we identified two key audit matters in relation to the rail business: rail franchise compliance, and rail provisions and accruals.
In the current year, whilst these two key audit matters remain, we have separately considered the operational and financial challenges at GTR as a key audit matter to reflect the additional audit focus required in this area due to the complexity of the judgements involved.
100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Report on the audit of the financial statements Conclusions related to principal risks, going concern and viability statement preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Opinion Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained to in respect of these matters.
In our opinion: within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Basis for opinion on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 1 July 2017 and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Managing Risk section of the strategic report on page 41.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be of the Groups profit for the year then ended: on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in under those standards are further described in the auditors draw attention to in relation to: to continue as a going concern.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our the disclosures on pages 43-45 that describe the principal risks and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by report.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a We are independent of the Group and the parent company in the parent company financial statements have been properly robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European those that would threaten its business model, future performance, audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the solvency or liquidity: Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we Companies Act 2006: and the directors statement in the directors report on page 106 to the have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the parent company.
parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least We have audited the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed comprise: the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and the consolidated income statement: why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement the consolidated and company statements of comprehensive as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will income: be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity: due over the period of their assessment, including any related the consolidated and company balance sheets: disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or the consolidated cash flow statement: assumptions: or the notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 28 and to whether the directors statements relating to going concern and the the parent company financial statements 1 to 18. prospects of the company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in Summary of our audit approach the audit.
Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts Govia Thameslink Railway GTR operational and financial challenges resulting from industrial action, infrastructure replacement and related issues Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions Valuation of uninsured liabilities Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosure Revenue recognition for the bus division Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 6.65m which was determined as 5% of statutory pre-tax profit.
com 101 100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts Key audit matter description As noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116 of the Annual Report, in respect of the three train operating companies TOCs a franchise agreement details the arrangements covering entitlement to revenue, certain costs and performance conditions.
Due to the complexity of the arrangements there is a risk that the financial statements do not appropriately reflect the correct revenue and costs in terms of completeness, measurement and occurrence, and or income penalties that can arise based on the actual performance of the individual TOC under the franchise agreement.
Revenue for the year ended 1 July 2017 totalled 2,579.1m 2016: 2,498.0m for the rail operating segment.
Due to the complexity of the franchise arrangements, and hence the level of management judgement involved, we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
How the scope of our audit We have read the franchise agreements, understood their critical elements and ensured compliance with responded to the key audit the franchise requirements.
We held meetings with each of the franchise compliance managers to assess matter whether there were any new issues of non-compliance or expected non-compliance, and whether any franchise committed obligations would not be delivered.
We performed detailed testing of all significant assets, provisions and accruals, and associated revenue or costs recognised to assess whether their recognition and quantum was appropriately stated.
We assessed whether there were any indicators that the assets or liabilities held should no longer be recognised due to the passage of time, changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 and whether they had been appropriately classified.
We tested the schedules prepared by management to source information, evaluated whether they were compliant with the franchise agreements, and tested the calculations applied including recalculation where relevant.
We held meetings with the Finance Directors and members of the finance team to assess on a case by case basis the movements in the provisions and accruals, during the period under audit, and challenged management both on the recognition of new provisions and accruals, and also the continued recognition of long standing provisions and accruals.
We reviewed relevant legal documentation and minutes of meetings held with the Department for Transport DfT.
We reviewed the accounts disclosures to assess whether they were appropriate.
The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
We concurred with the judgements made and the resultant Key observations accounting for all rail franchise contracts.
102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matters Govia Thameslink Railway GTR operational and financial challenges resulting from industrial action, Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of infrastructure replacement and related issues the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
Key audit matter description This key audit matter related to the judgements associated with franchise compliance at GTR and the These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing completeness of any potential issues where revenue could be overstated or provisions accruals required.
the efforts of the engagement team.
During the year there has been ongoing industrial action, infrastructure replacement and related issues.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we There has been continuing discussions with the Department for Transport DfT regarding a number of do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
contractual variations relating to these and other factors relating to the terms of the original contract.
This is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116 and in the key financial and internal control matters noted on page 70 of the Annual Report.
Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts Due to the complexity of the GTR franchise and the associated accounting, we deemed this a potential fraud Key audit matter description As noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116 risk for our audit.
of the Annual Report, in respect of the three train operating companies TOCs a franchise agreement How the scope of our We reviewed relevant legal documentation and minutes of meetings held with the DfT.
details the arrangements covering entitlement to revenue, certain costs and performance conditions.
Due to audit responded to the key We gained an understanding of each significant accrual and provision, the basis of estimation and the the complexity of the arrangements there is a risk that the financial statements do not appropriately reflect audit matter range of possible outcomes, discussed with the Finance Director and relevant members of the finance, the correct revenue and costs in terms of completeness, measurement and occurrence, and or operations franchise compliance and infrastructure management teams.
We have corroborated the income penalties that can arise based on the actual performance of the individual TOC under the franchise existence and quantum of each obligation to supporting documentation and re-performed managements agreement.
Revenue for the year ended 1 July 2017 totalled 2,579.1m 2016: 2,498.0m for the rail calculations.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 and whether they had Due to the complexity of the franchise arrangements, and hence the level of management judgement been appropriately classified.
involved, we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
We have read the franchise agreement, understood its critical elements and verified that the revenue How the scope of our audit We have read the franchise agreements, understood their critical elements and ensured compliance with recognised is in accordance with the franchise requirements.
responded to the key audit the franchise requirements.
We held meetings with each of the franchise compliance managers to assess We assessed managements rationale for not recognising the GTR franchise as an onerous contract.
matter whether there were any new issues of non-compliance or expected non-compliance, and whether any We reviewed the accounts disclosures relating to this key audit matter to assess whether they were franchise committed obligations would not be delivered.
We performed detailed testing of all significant assets, provisions and accruals, and associated revenue or Key observations We concluded that the assumptions used by management in not recognising the GTR contract as onerous costs recognised to assess whether their recognition and quantum was appropriately stated.
whether there were any indicators that the assets or liabilities held should no longer be recognised due to We concurred with managements judgements and accounting treatment relating to the liabilities the passage of time, changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements.
associated with the GTR franchise.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 and whether they had We observed that negotiations have been concluded with the DfT in relation to past performance periods and been appropriately classified.
financial commitments in respect of obligations not achieved.
This resulted in the settlement of 13.4m, We tested the schedules prepared by management to source information, evaluated whether they were which will be utilised to fund a package of performance and passenger improvements.
compliant with the franchise agreements, and tested the calculations applied including recalculation where relevant.
We concurred with the disclosure of the high level of estimation risk in the judgements surrounding the GTR We held meetings with the Finance Directors and members of the finance team to assess on a case by contract in the Annual Report.
Specifically, the Annual Report discloses a potential impact to profit of plus or case basis the movements in the provisions and accruals, during the period under audit, and challenged minus 5m relating to ongoing discussions about service changes and rolling stock cascades in 2018 as part management both on the recognition of new provisions and accruals, and also the continued recognition of of the Thameslink Programme.
This is detailed on page 21 of the Annual Report.
long standing provisions and accruals.
We reviewed relevant legal documentation and minutes of meetings held with the Department for Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions Transport DfT.
Key audit matter description This key audit matter related to the valuation of contractual and property related liabilities, in particular third We reviewed the accounts disclosures to assess whether they were appropriate.
party claims: and dilapidation provisions relating to rolling stock, depots and stations see note 24 of the The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
We concurred with the judgements made and the resultant Key observations financial statements.
Franchise commitments total 53.0m as at 1 July 2017 2016: 60.1m.
accounting for all rail franchise contracts.
This is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116 and in the key financial and internal control matters in the audit committee report on page 70 of the Annual Report.
Due to the level of management judgement involved, we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
How the scope of our audit We gained an understanding of each significant accrual or provision and the basis of estimate with the responded to the key Finance Director and relevant members of the finance team.
audit matter Where possible, we have corroborated amounts to supporting documentation and evidence for the existence of the obligation.
We have re-performed managements calculations to assess the quantum of the obligation outstanding at year-end.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition per IAS 37 and whether they have been appropriately classified as provisions or as an accrual depending on the level of uncertainty of the liability as in certain cases the amount to be paid can become known.
We assessed whether the third parties used to estimate relevant valuations have the appropriate experience, qualifications and knowledge of the business, and agreed the findings from their surveys into the provision.
We reviewed relevant legal documentation and correspondence with Network Rail.
The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concurred with the level of provisions held, which Key observations were supported by third party reports or evidence.
com 103 102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Valuation of uninsured liabilities Key audit matter description This key audit matter related to the valuation of insurance related liabilities and in particular the completeness of motor and other liabilities relating to transport incidents.
Judgement was required in the assessment of the recognition criteria in each individual circumstance and the level of the provision held.
The calculation of the provision also required significant levels of management judgement regarding the level of provision required in respect of claims incurred but not reported based on historic trends.
Due to the level of management judgement involved we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
The uninsured claims provision held in the Group financial statements at 1 July 2017 was 44.3m 2016: 42.1m see note 24: Provisions.
It is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116 and in the key financial and internal control matters in the audit committee report on page 70 of the Annual Report.
How the scope of our audit We gained an understanding of the Groups obligations under its insurance policies with relevant members responded to the key of the finance team and reviewed the documents to confirm these.
audit matter We gained a detailed understanding of the methodology used to calculate the claims incurred liabilities.
We tested the completeness of the information received and gained a detailed understanding of the approach used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not received and tested this provision against historical trends.
We reviewed group and subsidiary Board minutes, Board papers and held discussions with management to identify any significant matters which should have been considered when creating the provision and to identify any inconsistencies between the minutes and our understanding from the review of provisions performed.
We assessed the self-insurance provision to settle claims for incidents which arose prior to the balance sheet date including those for incidents incurred but not reported for completeness and accuracy through discussions held with the finance team and a review and testing of third party reports.
Key observations The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concurred with the level of provisions held.
We note that the element of the provision which relates to incurred but not reported claims, by its judgemental nature, is conservatively derived.
This element totals 7.7m 2016: 5.8m of the 44.3m 2016: 42.1m total self-insurance provision.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosure Key audit matter description Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability provided as set out in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116.
The significant judgements made relate to the assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Groups defined benefit pension liability and also relate to the accounting treatment for the Rail Pension Scheme, which changed during the year.
The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in long-term assumptions year on year which could materially impact the Groups balance sheet position.
The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27 and also discussed in the key financial and internal control matters in the audit committee report on page 70 of the Annual Report.
How the scope of our audit We involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values used by managements actuaries for key responded to the key assumptions at the year end are within Deloittes acceptable range with a focus on estimations of future audit matter changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
We involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension schemes.
We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension scheme.
We reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension Scheme for compliance with the Groups accounting policy and IFRS.
We assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements and considered their compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities are appropriate.
These assumptions fall within the middle of our acceptable range.
We concurred with the accounting treatment adopted for the Rail Pension Scheme, which changed during the year, and the disclosure of this change as per note 3 of the Annual Report.
We consider the disclosure around the sensitivity analysis to be appropriate and consistent with our work performed as per note 27 of the Annual Report.
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Valuation of uninsured liabilities Revenue recognition bus Key audit matter description Key audit matter description This key audit matter related to the valuation of insurance related liabilities and in particular the In the bus division the key audit matter over revenue recognition has been focused on whether recognising completeness of motor and other liabilities relating to transport incidents.
Judgement was required in the revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive assessment of the recognition criteria in each individual circumstance and the level of the provision held.
Contract premiums QIC in London Bus is appropriate.
Judgement is involved in determining QIC revenue The calculation of the provision also required significant levels of management judgement regarding the which is based on performance measures associated with the contract.
Revenue for the year ended 1 July level of provision required in respect of claims incurred but not reported based on historic trends.
Due to the 2017 totalled 902m 2016: 863m for the bus operating segment.
Due to the judgement involved in level of management judgement involved we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
determining QIC revenue we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
The uninsured claims provision held in the Group financial statements at 1 July 2017 was 44.3m 2016: How the scope of our audit We gained an in-depth understanding of the process undertaken to recognise revenue in the bus 42.1m see note 24: Provisions.
It is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of responded to the key businesses with the finance team ensuring this was in-line with external contracts in place.
estimation uncertainty note on page 116 and in the key financial and internal control matters in the audit audit matter We performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of the key revenue balances at each bus committee report on page 70 of the Annual Report.
business within our audit scope including a focus on the Quality Incentive Contract premium income How the scope of our audit We gained an understanding of the Groups obligations under its insurance policies with relevant members recognised in London Bus.
responded to the key of the finance team and reviewed the documents to confirm these.
We tested the completeness of the information received and gained a detailed understanding of the Key observations We are satisfied that the recognition of revenue in bus is appropriate.
approach used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not received and tested this provision against historical trends.
We reviewed group and subsidiary Board minutes, Board papers and held discussions with management to identify any significant matters which should have been considered when creating the provision and to identify any inconsistencies between the minutes and our understanding from the review of provisions Our application of materiality performed.
We assessed the self-insurance provision to settle claims for incidents which arose prior to the balance We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a sheet date including those for incidents incurred but not reported for completeness and accuracy reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in through discussions held with the finance team and a review and testing of third party reports.
evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Key observations The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concurred with the level of provisions held.
We note Group materiality 6.65m 2016: 3.97m that the element of the provision which relates to incurred but not reported claims, by its judgemental Basis for determining 5% of statutory pre-tax profit 2016: 5% nature, is conservatively derived.
This element totals 7.7m 2016: 5.8m of the 44.3m 2016: 42.1m total materiality self-insurance provision.
Rationale for the benchmark Pre-tax profit was selected as the appropriate measure on which to calculate materiality as it is considered Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosure applied an area of focus for the users of the accounts.
Key audit matter description Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability provided as set out in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 116.
The significant judgements made relate to the 13.96 assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Groups defined benefit pension liability and also relate to Group materiality 6.65m the accounting treatment for the Rail Pension Scheme, which changed during the year.
The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27 and also discussed in the key financial and Component materiality internal control matters in the audit committee report on page 70 of the Annual Report.
136.8m range 3.33m to 3.66m 7.1% How the scope of our audit We involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values used by managements actuaries for key responded to the key assumptions at the year end are within Deloittes acceptable range with a focus on estimations of future audit matter changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable Audit Committee discount rate.
reporting threshold 0.33m PBT 0.00 We involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of the methodology used by Group materiality managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension schemes.
We reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension Scheme for compliance with the Groups We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 332k 2016: 78k, as well accounting policy and IFRS.
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee We assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements and considered their compliance with the on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The clearly trivial threshold over which we report audit differences to the audit committee has increased year-on-year due to the Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities increase in group materiality and the low level of audit adjustments identified in the prior year.
This is now calculated at 5% 2016: 2% are appropriate.
com 105 104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 12 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses which were subject to a full audit.
The locations in scope represent the principal business units and account for 98% of the Groups total assets, 98% of the Groups revenue and 99% of the Groups profit before tax, with the bus businesses out of scope contributing an immaterial loss.
The locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 3.33m to 3.66m.
In addition, we visited the site in Singapore and reviewed the local auditors working papers.
Whilst not material to the Group representing 1% of turnover for 2017, this is a new operation which began trading during the financial year.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every year and the most significant of them at least twice a year.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing to the annual report including the strategic report on pages 1-45 and the corporate governance section on pages 46-99 report in respect of other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our auditors report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 12 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses which were subject to a full audit.
The locations in scope represent the principal but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
business units and account for 98% of the Groups total assets, 98% of the Groups revenue and 99% of the Groups profit before tax, with the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be bus businesses out of scope contributing an immaterial loss.
The locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of A further description of our responsibilities for the audit for the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 3.33m to 3.66m.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
visited the site in Singapore and reviewed the local auditors working papers.
Use of our report At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an audit of specified account balances.
auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every year and the Report on other legal and regulatory requirements most significant of them at least twice a year.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Other information 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing to the annual report including the strategic report on pages 1-45 and the corporate governance section on pages 46-99 report in respect of the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge Matters on which we are required to report by exception obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of other information.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, our opinion: we are required to report that fact.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the for our audit: or other information include where we conclude that: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary from branches not visited by us: or for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the accounting records and returns.
Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Responsibilities of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Auditor tenure statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Company at its annual general meeting on 22 October 2015 enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
to audit the financial statements for the year ending 2 July 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
Our total uninterrupted period of In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as engagement is 2 years, covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 1 July 2017. a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Christopher Powell, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 September 2017 www.
com 107 106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
