Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC Our audit approach Report on the audit of the financial Overview statements Opinion z 5.5m 2016: 6.4m Group In our opinion, Dunelm Group plcs Group financial financial statements.
statements and Parent Company financial statements the z Based on 5% of profit before tax, Materiality financial statements : adjusting for the non-recurring z give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of costs.
the Parent Companys affairs as at 1 July 2017 and of the z 1.2m 2016: 1.5m Parent Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys Audit scope Company financial statements.
cash flows for the 52 week period the period then z Based on 0.5% of total assets.
ended: z have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs The Group is structured with Areas as adopted by the European Union and as applied in of focus one segment which comprises a accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act consolidation of seven legal entities.
2006: and z have been prepared in accordance with the requirements We conducted an audit of the complete financial of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group information of these seven legal entities, together with financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
additional procedures performed, including over the Group We have audited the financial statements, included within consolidation.
the Annual Report and Accounts, which comprise: the Inventory provisions Group.
consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position as at 1 July 2017: the consolidated income statement Acquisition of Worldstores and related exceptional items and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated Group.
and Parent Company statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in The scope of our audit equity for the 52 week period then ended: the accounting As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and made subjective judgements, for example in respect of Risk Committee.
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk Basis for opinion of management override of internal controls, including We conducted our audit in accordance with International evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described to fraud.
in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit Key audit matters evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors provide a basis for our opinion.
professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include Independence the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement We remained independent of the Group in accordance with whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and Ethical Standard as applicable to listed public interest entities, directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in and any comments we make on the results of our procedures accordance with these requirements.
thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonthereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed on page 68, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 3 July 2016 to 1 July 2017.
indd 108 06 10 2017 12:12:12 Financials Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We tested the inputs to the provision calculation, including Inventory provisions the classification of inventory, to reports from the buying Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 66 department, which is segregated from the finance and the use of estimates and judgements in the Accounting department, and found them to be consistent.
We also re-performed the weeks cover calculation, Inventory represents a significant asset on the Groups identifying no exceptions.
balance sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV.
The determination of the NRV We challenged the expected realisable value of inventory provision involves judgement in assessing slow moving or by reference to the historical experience of selling inventory obsolete inventory.
at below cost and managements intended plans for future routes of clearance.
The Groups accounting policy is to determine a provision based upon an analysis of the number of weeks cover of We found that the provision rates were consistent with the inventory i. e. number of weeks sales held in inventory evidence obtained, based on past activity, and appropriately based upon an average of the previous 26 weeks of sales.
Provisions are recorded according to the number of weeks cover, type of inventory, certain classifications, such as whether inventory is a continuity line or discontinued, and managements assessment of the expected realisable value for each category of inventory.
We have assessed the fair values ascribed to the assets and Acquisition of Worldstores and related liabilities that were purchased as part of the acquisition of exceptional items the Worldstores Group.
In particular, we tested the valuation Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 66 of acquired intangible assets and property, plant and and the use of estimates and judgements in the Accounting equipment.
We have verified the costs that are disclosed as exceptional The trade and certain assets and liabilities of the Worldstores items to ensure they meet the criteria supporting separate Group were acquired by Dunelm Group plc on disclosure and have obtained comfort over the accuracy of 28 November 2016.
Provisional fair values were attributed to these balances.
each of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets in relation to brands.
Costs relating to the acquisition and the subsequent restructuring and integration within the Dunelm Group have been separately disclosed as exceptional items.
109 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 109 06 10 2017 12:12:12 Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC How we tailored the audit scope in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their financial significance to the Group.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of the the financial statements as a whole, taking into account remaining four non-significant legal entities such that the the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the audit of accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group financial statements, thereby providing further they operate.
evidence in support of our Group opinion.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we The audits of these seven legal entities, together with performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the additional procedures performed at the Group level, the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the including over the Group consolidation, gave us the evidence geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we Materiality performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on The scope of our audit was influenced by our application the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the The Group is structured with one segment.
The Group nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the financial statements are a consolidation of seven legal entities individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in within this segment, comprising the Groups operating evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and business and centralised functions.
in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, Based on our professional judgement, we determined we identified three legal entities: Dunelm Soft Furnishings materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Limited, Globe Online Limited and Dunelm Group plc, which, Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 5.5m 2016: 6.4m.
How we 5% of profit before tax, adjusting for the non- 0.5% of total assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally We have applied this benchmark, a generally benchmark accepted auditing practice, as we believe this accepted auditing practice, as we believe this applied is the key measure used by the shareholders in is the key measure used by the shareholders in evaluating the performance of the Group.
evaluating the performance of the Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.08m and 5.18m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.25m Group audit 2016: 0.05m and 0.25m Parent Company audit 2016: 0.05m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
indd 110 06 10 2017 12:12:12 Financials Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial attention to.
However, because not all future statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to events or conditions can be predicted, this adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties and Parent Companys ability to continue as a to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going going concern.
concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Reporting on other information In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course The other information comprises all of the information in of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report the Annual Report and Accounts other than the financial and Directors Report for the period ended 1 July 2017 statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors is consistent with the financial statements and has been are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
financial statements does not cover the other information and, CA06 accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group assurance thereon.
and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material In connection with our audit of the financial statements, misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
our responsibility is to read the other information and, CA06 in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our Corporate Governance Statement knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to Statement on pages 54 to 69 about internal controls and perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material risk management systems in relation to financial reporting misstatement of the financial statements or a material processes and about share capital structures in compliance misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance we have performed, we conclude that there is a material and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR misstatement of this other information, we are required to is consistent with the financial statements and has been report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered and Parent Company and their environment obtained in whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act the course of the audit, we did not identify any material 2006 have been included.
CA06 Based on the responsibilities described above and our work In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Statement on pages 54 to 69 with respect to the Parent Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain Companys corporate governance code and practices and opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies UK unless otherwise stated.
and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
CA06 111 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 111 06 10 2017 12:12:12 Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC The Directors assessment of the prospects of Other Code Provisions the Group and of the principal risks that would We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group report when: We have nothing material to add or draw attention to z The statement given by the Directors, on page 105, that regarding: they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and z The Directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual provides the information necessary for the members to Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, performance, business model and strategy is materially including those that would threaten its business model, inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent future performance, solvency or liquidity Company obtained in the course of performing our audit z The disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that z The section of the Annual Report and Accounts on page 66 describe those risks and explain how they are being describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does managed or mitigated not appropriately address matters communicated by us to z The Directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual the Audit and Risk Committee Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed z The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys the prospects of the Group, over what period they compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a have done so and why they consider that period to be departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Directors Remuneration due over the period of their assessment, including any In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with qualifications or assumptions the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and Responsibilities for the financial statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
statements and the audit Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the statements Directors process supporting their statements: checking that As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions Responsibilities set out on page 105, the Directors are of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements considering whether the statements are consistent with the in accordance with the applicable framework and for being knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are Company and their environment obtained in the course of the also responsible for such internal control as they determine audit.
Listing Rules is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
indd 112 06 10 2017 12:12:12 Financials Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Appointment financial statements Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the members on Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 14 January 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 28 June 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 28 June 2014 to 1 July 2017.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they for and on behalf of  LLP could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial Birmingham statements.
13 September 2017 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: z we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or z certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or z the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
113 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
