The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc Report on the Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, The City of London Investment Trust plcs financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys aairs as at 30 June 2017 and of its return for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Statement of Financial Position: the Income Statement: the Statement of Changes in Equity: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sucient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our otherethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided tothe Company.
We have provided no non-audit services to the Company in the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 14.3 million 2016: 12.4 million which represents 1% of Net Assets.
The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Henderson Investment Funds Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from BNP Paribas Securities Services the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
We obtained an understanding of the internal controls in place at both the Manager and the Administrator, identied and tested those controls on which we wished to place reliance and then performed substantive testing using reports obtained from the Administrator.
Key audit matters Valuation and existence of investments.
34 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates thatinvolved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk ofmanagement override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented arisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We tested the valuation of the listed equity investments by agreeing the Valuation and existence of investments pricesused in the valuation to independent third party sources.
No material Refer to page 33 Report of the Audit Committee, misstatements were identified by our testing.
page 42 Accounting Policies and page 48 to 49 Notes.
We tested the existence by agreeing the listed equity investments to an independent custodian confirmation from HSBC Bank plc.
No material The investment portfolio at the year-end comprised differences were identified which required reporting to those charged listed equity investments valued at 1,509 million.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position in the financial statements.
We assessed the accounting policy for dividend income recognition for Dividend income compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing Refer to page 33 Report of the Audit Committee, to check that dividend income had been accounted for in accordance with this page 42 to 43 Accounting Policies and page 45 stated accounting policy.
We found that the accounting policies implemented Notes.
were in accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and that income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
We focused on the accuracy, completeness, and occurrence of dividend income recognition and its We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from listed equity presentation in the Statement of Comprehensive investments to independent third party sources.
Income as set out in the requirements of The We also tested that, for listed equity investments, all dividends recorded had Association of Investment Companies Statement been declared in the market, and that all dividends declared in the market had ofRecommended Practice the AIC SORP.
because incomplete or inaccurate income could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value.
We tested occurrence by tracing a sample of dividends received to bank statements.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
35 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
We also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as a Key audit matter in the table above.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 14.3 million 2016: 12.4 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
benchmark applied We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 714,000 2016:621,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not to add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee statement in the financial statements about whether as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on 36 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
Wehave nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 18 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 18 and 19 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period oftheir assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 26, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 32 and 33 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 26, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
37 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed in 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30June 2009 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 9 years, covering the years ended 30June2009 to 30 June 2017.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 September 2017 38
