EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 38 Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plcs financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30th June 2017 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of cash flows, the statement of changes in equity: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Company in the period from 1st July 2016 to 30th June 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 5.6 million 2016: 4.7 million, based on 0.5% of net assets.
The Company is an Investment Trust Company and engages JPMorgan Funds Limited the Manager to Materiality manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements from information provided by JPMorgan Corporate & Investment Bank the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the Audit scope involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
We obtained an understanding of the internal controls in place at both the Manager and the Administrator, identified and tested those controls on which we wished to place reliance and then performed substantive Areas of testing using reports obtained from the Administrator.
Valuation and existence of investments.
38 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 39 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Income We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 48 Accounting compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and Policies and page 51 Notes to the Financial Statements.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness of dividend income We found that the accounting policies implemented were in recognition and its presentation in the Statement of Comprehensive accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and that Income as set out in the requirements of The Association of income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated Investment Companies Statement of Recommended Practice accounting policy.
This is because incomplete or inaccurate income could have material impact on the Companys net assets value.
We tested the accuracy of dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from investments to independent market data.
No We also focused on the accuracy and occurrence of realised and misstatements were identified which required reporting to those unrealised gains or losses on the investment portfolio.
To test for completeness, we tested all investment holdings in the portfolio, to ensure that all dividends declared in the market by investment holdings had been recorded.
Our testing did not identify any incorrectly recorded or omitted dividends.
We tested occurrence by testing that all dividends recorded in the year had been declared in the market by investment holdings, and we traced a sample of dividends received to bank statements.
Our testing did not identify any misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance.
We also tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP by determining reasons behind dividend distributions.
Our procedures did not identify any misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance.
We also checked that the gains or losses on investments held at fair value comprise realised and unrealised gains or losses.
For realised gains or losses, we tested a sample of disposal proceeds to bank statements.
For unrealised gains or losses, we tested the valuation of the portfolio at the year-end, and also tested the reconciliation of opening and closing investments.
No misstatements were identified by our testing.
39 EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 40 Independent Auditors Report continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation and existence of investments We tested the valuation of the listed investment portfolio by Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 48 Accounting agreeing the prices used in the valuation to independent third party Policies and page 54 Notes to the Financial Statements.
The investment portfolio at the year-end principally comprised of No misstatements were identified by our testing which required listed equity investments.
reporting to those charged with governance.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the investments represent the principal element of the net asset value holdings for investments to an independent custodian confirmation as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position in the financial from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as at 30th June 2017. statements.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
The Companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator who maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Manager and the Directors.
As part of our risk assessment, we understood and assessed the internal controls in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and analysing the relevant control reports issued by the independent service auditor of the Administrator in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
Following this assessment, we then identified those relevant controls at the Administrator on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
We then applied professional judgement to determine the extent of substantive testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 5.6 million 2016: 4.7 million.
How we determined it 0.5% of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the benchmark applied absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe that this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 280,000 2016: 234,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
40 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 41 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in events or conditions can be predicted, this preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material statement is not a guarantee as to the uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at Companys ability to continue as a going least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30th June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 22 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
41 EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 42 Independent Auditors Report continued The Directors explanation on page 23 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 33, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 33 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
42 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp38-47 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 43 Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed by the Directors in 1991 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 1992 and subsequent financial years.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 26 years, covering the years ended 30th June 1992 to 30th June 2017.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5th October 2017 43
