Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC Summary of our audit approach Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: In our opinion: carrying value of land and work in progress: and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of There are no changes to the key audit matters from the prior year.
the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 38.3m which was determined on the then ended: basis of 5% of statutory profit before tax.
the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Scoping Consistent with our approach in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused on the audit work International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: of the two components, being housebuilding and commercial developments.
All audit work was completed by the Group audit team.
the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Significant changes There are no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions in our approach ofthe Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going We confirm that we have concern basis of accounting contained within note 1.3 to the Financial Statements and the nothing material to add We have audited the Financial Statements of Barratt Developments PLC the Parent Company Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic or draw attention to in and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: Report on page 44. respect of these matters.
the Consolidated Income Statement: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We agreed with the relation to: Directors adoption of the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income: the disclosures on pages 42-44 that describe the principal risks and explain how they the going concern basis are being managed or mitigated: of accounting and we the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Directors confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment did not identify any such of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business material uncertainties.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: However, because the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: and the Directors statement in note 1.3 to the Financial Statements about whether they not all future events considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing or conditions can be the related notes 1 to 7.5. them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the Parent predicted, this statement Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the is not a guarantee as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law date of approval of the Financial Statements: to the Groups ability and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial the Directors explanation on page 44 as to how they have assessed the prospects of to continue as a going Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be concern.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that Basis for opinion the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our Report.
Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group orthe Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide abasis for our opinion.
114 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Carrying value of land 2,895.6m 2016: 2,880.2m and work in progress 1,509.1m 2016: 1,386.3m Key audit matter description The Groups assessment of the carrying value of land and work in progress, being the lower of cost and net realisable value, is a judgemental process and is an area where potential fraud could occur as it requires the estimation of selling prices, sales rates and costs to complete, determined on a site by site basis.
These factors drive the gross margin for each site and hence the profit recognised at the point of sale.
The land and WIP impairment calculation continues to be most sensitive to changes in sales price inflation SPI and build cost inflation BCI and net margin inflation.
The outcome of the EU referendum and ongoing Brexit negotiations and the UK General Election has resulted in greater political and economic uncertainty which may impact selling prices, sales rates and build costs, especially in the longer term, albeit there is no evidence of pervasive adverse factors impacting the Group to date.
Such assumptions impact the Groups assessments on the carrying value of land and work in progress.
The net impairment charge for the year was 13.5m 2016: 8.6m.
In addition, revenue recognition on social housing developments accounted for under IAS 11 Construction Contracts requires additional judgement incalculating the revenue and profit to be recognised, estimating the total expected costs to complete each site and the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date.
Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement and note 3.1 financial statement disclosures including the related Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
How the scope of our audit Our work involved the following: responded to the key audit matter We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the Groups controls relating to the determination of costs to complete as this is the most significant judgement applied to each site valuation.
We attended a number of valuation meetings across all regions that review the carrying value of land and work in progress of individual sites and costs to complete.
A sample of sites were also visited to enable us to verify how surveyors measure the degree of build completion of the developments against the costs incurred to date and to measure the sub-contractor accruals at the year end.
For multi-phased sites we have performed procedures to validate the appropriateness of actual and forecast margin maintained across the individual phases of the entire site.
We have reviewed the land acquisition appraisal process and viability assessment at acquisition and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls.
We have sample tested and agreed certain costs incurred to date included within land and work in progress as well as reviewing the proportion of that expenditure recognised as a cost of sale in the year inrespect of units sold.
We have used IT interrogation tools to test the model prepared by Management to calculate the net realisable value of sites to ascertain the mechanical accuracy of the formulae being applied to the inputs tospecific sites.
We have tested each of the key assumptions within Managements model on forecast sales values, sales rates and costs to complete which support the basis of the carrying value of land and work in progress.
We have compared the Groups assumptions to external market forecasts for sales price inflation and build cost inflation and have tested a sample of sites to current market data on sales rates, sales prices and cost assumptions.
We have also tested the accuracy of costs to complete assumptions on a sample basis.
We have performed independent sensitivity analysis, informed by external forecasts, to measure the impact on the carrying value of land and work in progress through possible deviations around the assumptions applied by management.
A sample of construction contracts for social housing developments have been tested by verifying the costs incurred to date and recalculating the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date.
A selection of these schemes have been reviewed with a sample of costs agreed to third party surveyors certificates, total sales values agreed to contracts, and the recognition formula verified to support revenue recognised.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures within the Annual Report and Financial Statements relating to the estimation uncertainty.
Key observations The Groups assumptions for SPI, BCI and net margin were consistent with our own expectations and the net impairment management assessed of 13.5m which has been recorded through the income statement wasreasonable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC continued Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 892.2m 2016: 892.2m Key audit matter description The goodwill and David Wilson Homes brand intangible asset arose upon the acquisition of Wilson Bowden see note 4.2.
The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is a judgemental process which requires estimates concerning the forecast future cash flows associated with the goodwill and brand assets held, the discount rates and the growth rate of revenue, which incorporates assumptions on volume, house price inflation and margin, together with costs, to be applied in determining the value in use.
The Group determined the discount rate to use in the impairment test with the assistance of an independent firm based on its weighted average cost of capital rate WACC.
As described in the previous key audit matter, the outcome of the EU referendum and UK General Election has resulted in greater political and economic uncertainty which may impact selling prices, sales rates and build costs, especially in the longer term.
There were no impairments in the current year 2016: nil.
Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement and note 4.2 financial statement disclosures including the related Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
How the scope of our audit Our work involved the following: responded to the key audit matter We have assessed the design and implementation of the Groups controls relating to Managements impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets.
We have tested the accuracy of the underlying model to assess whether the processes are applied to the correct input data and the outputs are mapped accurately.
We challenged each of the key assumptions employed in the annual goodwill impairment test, including volumes, house price inflation, margin and costs: this included reference to historical performance, forward looking market data and forecast trends in the industry.
This included reference to our internal valuation specialists benchmarking of the WACC employed as the discount rate, including its methodology and constituent inputs, comparison to independent market forecasts of revenue and cost growth in the housebuilding sector and an assessment of the Groups historic forecasting accuracy.
We have tested Managements sensitivity analysis in relation to the key inputs to the goodwill impairment test model, as well as performing our own sensitivity analysis which included changes to volume, margin, incentives and the discount rate applied.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Key observations Based upon our procedures, we are satisfied that no impairment of the value of goodwill and intangibles assets is required.
Our application of materiality Group materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes 38.3m itprobable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Component materiality range Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements 0.5m to 36.9m PBT 765.1m asa whole as follows: Group materiality 38.3m 2016: 33.5m.
Audit Committee Basis for determining 5% of statutory profit before tax in both the current and prior year.
reporting threshold materiality 1.9m Rationale for the Statutory profit before tax was used as the benchmark because this is a key performance PBT benchmark applied indicator for the Groups stakeholders and is consistent with the benchmark used for comparable companies.
Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.9m 2016: 1.7m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
116 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information An overview of the scope of our audit Responsibilities of Directors Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they level.
The entire Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary is performed centrally and comprises all the divisions which comprise the Groups housebuilding to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, segment, the Groups commercial developments segment and the head office consolidation.
whether due to fraud or error.
Consistent with prior years, we choose to visit the Groups three London housebuilding divisions In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups each year, as well as five further non-London housebuilding divisions across each of the and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, Groups regions, selected on a rotational basis and with reference to size and complexity among matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the other factors.
We also visit Wilson Bowden Developments Limited on an annual basis, which Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, constitutes the majority of the Groups commercial developments segment, this was audited orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
toits local statutory audit materiality determined on a profit before tax basis.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Other information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises We have nothing to a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an the information included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our report in respect of these Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, Auditors Report thereon.
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our Report, we do not express any form of assurance are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to conclusion thereon.
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements Use of our Report or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might toreport that fact.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they body, for ouraudit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC continued Other matters Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Auditor tenure Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were re-appointed by the Board In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly in November 2016 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 30 June 2018 and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: renewals and reappointments of the firm is ten years, covering the years ending 30 June 2008 to30 June 2017. the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and Consistency of the Auditors Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Mark Goodey Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or report in respect of Statutory Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns these matters.
London, United Kingdom adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 5 September 2017 the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report report in respect of to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
118 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
