Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 71 Financial Statements 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion Galliford Try plcs Group financial statements and Company 5 Materiality for Group financial statements of 7,380,000 financial statements the financial statements : 2016: 6,750,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
5 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups profit and 5 Materiality for Company financial statements of 7,380,000 the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: 2016: 6,750,000 which represents 1% of total assets, capped at the materiality of the Group financial statements.
5 have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Audit scope Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 5 The Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden Companies Act 2006: and Homes, Partnerships & Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, PPP Investments and Central.
In establishing the overall approach to 5 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, performed at these reporting units.
Of the Groups six reporting Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
units, we identified the following legal entities required a full scope What we have audited audit: Linden Limited, Galliford Try Building Limited, Galliford Try We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Infrastructure Limited, Galliford Try Partnerships Limited and Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: Galliford Try plc, which in our view, required an audit of their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk 5 the balance sheets as at 30 June 2017: characteristics.
In addition to this we performed work over specific 5 the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement o balances in other Group entities, which in our view, required an audit f comprehensive income, the statement of cash flows, and the of such balances, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the 5 Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 94% of year then ended: and Group revenue and 85% of Group profit before tax.
5 the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of Key audit matters the significant accounting policies.
5 Fraud in revenue recognition Group.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
5 Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued Group.
Basis for opinion 5 Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued Group.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under The scope of our audit ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective provide a basis for our opinion.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that Independence are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as applicable to a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided statements of the current period and include the most significant to the Group or the Company.
assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, we have identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
72 Galliford Try plc Independent auditors report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Fraud in revenue recognition Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
5 For construction contract revenue, we identified and assessed key judgements Construction contract accounting is inherently complex inherent in the estimation of significant construction contract projects, by validating and we focused on this area because there is judgement stage-of-completion and costs to completion on significant projects using involved in estimating the costs to complete of projects surveyors latest valuations, as well as evaluating the final outcome on projects which increases the inherent risk of fraud.
Revenue from completed in the year in relation to previous estimates made.
fixed-price construction contracts is recognised based upon 5 We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects to supporting managements assessment of the value of works carried out documentation such as customer contracts and signed variations.
considering performance against the programme of works, measurement of the works, detailed evaluation of the costs 5 We tested the timing of construction contract revenue recognition, taking into incurred and comparison to external certification of the work account contractual obligations, the percentage of the contract completed, performed.
Profit is not recognised until the outcome of the third-party certifications and the timing of cash receipts.
5 For Linden Homes revenue, we tested a sample of sales by examining legal Revenue recognition in Linden Homes is based on legal completion documents.
We also considered the stage of completion of affordable completion in respect of private house sales and housing sales through review of surveyors valuations where appropriate.
unconditional exchange of contracts in respect of land sales.
5 We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual journal entries impacting Refer to note 1 Accounting Policies on pages 82 and 83 revenue and performed testing on those items.
of the Annual Report and the Audit Committee Report on 5 We found no material misstatements from our testing.
pages 53 and 54 of the Annual Report.
Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued The valuation of developments is dependent upon the 5 We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around the correct estimation and allocation of common costs on Linden purchase and payable cycle including review and approval of costs to specific Homes sites.
Common costs are allocated proportionately projects, and review of performance by project including costs to date and variation across the site using projected site margin to give a common of cost to complete.
gross profit margin on all units on that site, therefore changes 5 We recalculated, for a sample of sites, the release to costs of sales and remaining in the total common costs incurred on a site over the life of work in progress balance to ensure they have been appropriately updated for costs the development can cause the profit margin to fluctuate.
incurred and expected costs to complete.
Older or slower-moving developments can be an indication of potential impairment.
5 We performed a review of site margins for all major sites to identify those with low or eroding margins, for example due to specific issues or underperformance.
Refer to note 1 Accounting Policies on page 85 of the Annual We discussed the identified sites with management, including the consideration of Report and the Audit Committee Report on pages53 and 54 the level of provisions held against these sites and corroborated the explanations of the Annual Report.
with other external evidence to support the carrying value of inventory.
5 We agreed a sample of costs incurred on sites, including common costs, to supporting documentation.
5 We evaluated the ageing of developments and investigated large, older and slower-moving items by obtaining and corroborating explanations for the levels of provisions held against such developments.
5 We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued The valuation of amounts recoverable on construction 5 We assessed the evidence provided by management regarding recovery of the contracts is dependent on judgements around stage of un-agreed value on projects.
This included external expert and legal advice and completion and remaining costs to complete, as well as the correspondence from clients, subcontractors and insurers.
We considered the associated provisions.
In a number of the Groups projects adequacy of provisions held.
there are assumptions within either revenue or cost of sales 5 We identified and assessed a sample of key judgements inherent in estimation of regarding recovery of contractual entitlement from clients, significant projects, particularly around stage of completion, costs to complete designers, subcontractors or insurers, and value can be and provisions on loss-making contracts through our testing of contract review recorded within work in progress which is not yet certified meetings, reading correspondence with the customer and sub-contractors, and or formally agreed.
Provisions are recorded by the Group obtaining audit evidence on client subcontractor disputes and insurance claims.
where risk of recovery is considered significant.
5 We compared the final outcome on projects completed in the year to previous Refer to note 1 Accounting Policies on pages 82 and 83 of the estimates made on those projects to assess the reliability of managements estimates.
Annual Report and the Audit Committee Report on pages53 and 54 of the Annual Report.
5 We tested whether valid contractual agreements or other documentation were in place to support a sample of balances.
5 We identified, and obtained and corroborated explanations for, unusual fluctuations in margins on significant projects.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 73 Financial Statements 2017 How we tailored the audit scope characteristics.
In addition to this we performed work over specific We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed balances in other Group entities, which in our view, required an audit enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements of such balances, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 94% of Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry Group revenue and 85% Group profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial as a whole, we took into account: the segmental structure of the Group: statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited the accounting processes and controls: and the industry in which the by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The assessment of the valuation of goodwill and legacy defined benefit Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden Homes, pension scheme balances.
Partnerships & Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, PPP Investments Materiality and Central.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
these six segments in total.
The business segmental reporting also We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together reflects the Groups management and internal reporting structure.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures the type of work that needed to be performed at these segments.
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in Of the Groups six reporting units, we identified the following legal evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the entities required a full scope audit: Linden Limited, Galliford Try Building financial statements as a whole.
Limited, Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited, Galliford Try Partnerships Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Limited and Galliford Try plc, which in our view, required an audit of financial statements as a whole as follows: their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 7,380,000 2016: 6,750,000.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
1% of total assets, capped at the materiality of the Group financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark as a generally accepted this benchmark as a generally accepted auditing practice applicable for a trading auditing practice applicable for a non-trading group of companies.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range misstatements identified during our audit above 369,000 Group audit of materiality allocated across components was between 1,700,000 2016: 300,000 and 369,000 Company audit 2016: 300,000 as and 7,000,000. well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial to continue as a going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
74 Galliford Try plc Independent auditors report Reporting on other information We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Report and Financial Statements other than the financial statements risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance this report, any form of assurance thereon.
Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent Other Code Provisions with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are 5 The statement given by the directors, on page 70, that they consider required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement understandable, and provides the information necessary for the of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, members to assess the Groups and Companys position and we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the to report based on these responsibilities.
course of performing our audit.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors report, we also 5 The section of the Annual Report on page 53 describing the work considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Act 2006 have been included.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken 5 The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below by the auditor.
required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Directors Remuneration Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Act 2006.
CA06 Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit legal requirements.
CA06 Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of the directors responsibilities In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also and Directors Report.
CA06 responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going 5 The directors confirmation on page 18 of the Annual Report that concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
5 The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 5 The directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report as to financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that period they have done so and why they consider that period to includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 75 Financial Statements 2017 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 5 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or 5 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 5 certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or 5 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 27 October 2000 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2001 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 17 years, covering the years ended 30 June 2001 to 30 June 2017.
Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 September 2017 5 The maintenance and integrity of the Galliford Try Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
5 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
