Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC To the best of our knowledge and belief, we Report on the audit of the declare that non-audit services prohibited by fi financial statements the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided Opinion to the Group or the Company.
In our opinion: Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the Hays plcs Group fi financial statements fi financial statements, we have provided andCompany fi financial statements nonon-audit services to the Group or the thefi financial statements give a true and Company in the period from 1 July 2016 to fair view of the state of the Groups and of 30June 2017. the Companys aff airs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups profi t and cash fl ows forthe year then ended: Our audit approach The Group fi financial statements have been Overview properly prepared in accordance with 10.0 million Group fi financial statements IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Based on approximately 5% of profi t The Company fi financial statements have before tax from continuing operations been properly prepared in accordance 9.3 million Company fi financial withUnited Kingdom Generally Accepted Materiality statements Accounting Practice United Kingdom Based on approximately 1% of total assets Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and 89% of Group net fees and 97% Group applicable law : and profi t before tax from continuing The fi financial statements have been operations covered through full scope prepared in accordance with the audit procedures Audit scope requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Australia, UK and Germany considered to and, as regards the Group fi financial be fi nancially signifi cant due to their statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
relative contributions to the Groups net fees and profi t before tax We have audited the fi financial statements, Five country operations visited by the included within the Annual Report and Key audit Group audit team during the year matters Financial Statements, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets Recoverability of accrued income and as at 30 June 2017: the Consolidated Income trade receivables Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Fraud in revenue recognition Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Goodwill impairment assessment Statement, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity The scope of our audit Key audit matters for the year then ended: and the notes to As part of designing our audit, we Key audit matters are those matters that, in thefi financial statements, which include determined materiality and assessed the the auditors professional judgment, were of adescription of the signifi cant accounting risks of material misstatement in the fi financial most signifi cance in the audit of the fi financial policies.
In particular, we looked at where statements of the current period and include Our opinion is consistent with our reporting the directors made subjective judgments, for the most signifi cant assessed risks of material to the Audit Committee.
example in respect of signifi cant accounting misstatement whether or not due to fraud estimates that involved making assumptions identifi ed by the auditors, including those Basis for opinion and considering future events that are which had the greatest eff ect on: the overall We conducted our audit in accordance inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we audit strategy: the allocation of resources withInternational Standards on Auditing UK also addressed the risk of management inthe audit: and directing the eff orts of the ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our override of internal controls, including engagement team.
These matters, and any responsibilities under ISAs UK are further evaluating whether there was evidence of comments we make on the results of our described in the Auditors responsibilities for bias by the directors that represented a risk procedures thereon, were addressed in the audit of the fi financial statements section of material misstatement due to fraud.
thecontext of our audit of the fi financial of our report.
We believe that the audit statements as a whole, and in forming our evidence we have obtained is suffi cient and opinion thereon, and we do not provide a appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
separate opinion on these matters.
This is Independence nota complete list of all risks identifi ed by We remained independent of the Group in our audit.
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the fi financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as applicable to listedpublic interest entities, and we have fulfi lled our other ethical responsibilities inaccordance with these requirements.
98 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recoverability of accrued income and In order to test the recoverability of accrued income and trade receivables, we performed trade receivables the following procedures: Refer to page 56 Audit Committee Report Verified that billings had been raised against accrued income balances subsequent to and notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements the year end and validated any reasons for delays: for the Directors disclosures of the related Requested confirmations for a sample of client receivable balances in certain locations: accounting policies, judgments and estimates.
Where a response to our request was not received, we sought to agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post year-end cash receipts: At 30 June 2017, the total receivables and Where both a response and cash had not been received post year-end, we performed accrued income balances net of provisions alternative procedures by agreeing amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and included in note 17 was 860.0 million completion documentation: 2016:695.8 million.
Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not yet paid with Hays local The recoverability of trade receivables, management teams: and accrued income and the level of provisions Considered the consistency of judgments regarding the recoverability of trade for bad debts are considered to be a key receivables and accrued income made year on year to consider whether there is riskdue to the pervasive nature of these evidence of management bias.
balances to the financial statements, and We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated further theimportance of cash collection with provisioning against accrued income and trade receivables was required.
reference to the working capital management of the business.
We also evaluated the Groups credit control procedures and assessed the ageing profile ofaccrued income and trade receivables, focusing on older items.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer.
We also challenged management as to whether the methodology applied in determining bad debt provisions appropriately reflected the level of risk in the total receivables balance with consideration given to individual counterparty credit risk and the general economic conditions in each jurisdiction.
Based upon the above, we are satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgments that were materially supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivable balances.
Fraud in revenue recognition We performed the following procedures to address the risk that revenue had been Refer to page 56 Audit Committee Report recorded fraudulently: and notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements We assessed the design and implementation of key controls around all streams of for the directors disclosures of the related revenue recognised: accounting policies, judgments and estimates.
We tested the occurrence of revenue journals posted through the year using a combination of data auditing techniques and corroborating of sales transactions to third There is a degree of judgment specifically party documentation: around year-end cut-off and accruing for We tested the accrued income associated with work performed by contractors before income, particularly in respect of the time the year end, by comparing the amounts to timesheets submitted after year end: worked by contractors that has not been We considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off adjustments processed processed in the Groups financial systems.
by considering the start date of permanent placements and the term of a temporary There also may be an incentive for placement with reference to the year-end date, as well as any central adjustments consultants to record more placements recorded to align weekly country reporting with the Groups year-end date: and ornot remove unplaced contractors in We evaluated whether revenue has been recognised in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue ordertoreceive commissions or to meet and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing details of the Group revenue recognition bonustargets.
policy, the application of this, and any significant new contracts.
The audit risk includes both of the There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue recognition in the period.
We determined that this specificallyimpacts the occurrence and cut-off assertions.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 99 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment assessment Focusing on the Veredus business, we evaluated and challenged the directors future cash Refer to page 56 Audit Committee Report, flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up, and tested the underlying note 3 Critical accounting estimates value in use calculations.
We compared managements forecast with the latest Boardandnote 13 for the related disclosures approved budget and found them to be reasonable.
We challenged: The Group carried 223.3 million of goodwill The key assumptions for shortand long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing at 30 June 2017 2016: 220.4 million.
them with historical results, as well as economic and industry forecasts for the US recruitment market: and The carrying value of goodwill is contingent The discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of capital for the Group on future cash flows of the underlying and comparable organisations, and assessed the specific risk premium applied to the cash-generating units CGUs and there is Veredus CGU.
arisk that if these cash flows do not meet We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts.
thedirectors expectations, the goodwill This included sensitising the discount rate applied to the future cash flows, and the shortwillbe impaired.
andlonger-term growth rates and profit margins forecast.
No impairment charge was recognised in the We ascertained the extent to which a change in these assumptions, both individually or in year ended 30 June 2017. aggregate, would result in a goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such We focused our assessment on the Veredus events occurring.
We also ensured that sufficient and appropriate disclosure regarding CGU in the US, which has a goodwill carrying such events was included in the Groups financial statements.
Based on the procedures described above, we were satisfied that the carrying value of Managements investment in headcount to goodwill in respect of Veredus had been appropriately assessed.
drive long-term growth has reduced shortterm profitability.
This has resulted in a reduction in headroom over the carrying value of the CGU to 2.4 million 2016: 3.4 million.
There was a risk that small and reasonably possible changes in key assumptions could have resulted in an impairment to Veredus.
How we tailored the audit scope net fees and 20% of Group profit before team was sufficiently involved in both the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure taxfrom continuing operations.
In addition planning and the execution of the audit that we performed enough work to be able tothis, the Group audit team performed procedures in these countries.
to give an opinion on the financial statements specified audit procedures in two other The Group audit team also joined the audit as a whole, taking into account the structure countries, representing 5% of Group net clearance meetings for each of the other of the Group and the Company, the feesand 1% of Group profit before tax from 20countries that were subject to full scope accounting processes and controls, and the continuing operations.
and specified audit procedures, as well as industry in which they operate.
holding calls with the regional management Central review procedures were performed teams responsible for each of the 10 countries The businesss 33 trading countries are by the Group audit team on the remaining subject to central review procedures.
structured across three reported segments, 10countries that were not subject to full Asia Pacific APAC, UK & Ireland, and scope or specified audit procedures.
These Materiality Continental Europe & Rest of World countries represented the remaining 6% The scope of our audit was influenced by our CE&RoW.
ofnet fees and 2% of profit before tax from application of materiality.
We set certain continuing operations for the Group.
These, Of the 33 trading countries, the UK, Germany together with qualitative considerations, and Australia together represent 68% of the The Group audit team, over the course of the helped us to determine the scope of our audit Groups net fees and 77% of the Groups year, visited the Groups operations in the UK, and the nature, timing and extent of our audit profit before tax from continuing operations.
Germany, France, the US and Canada, having procedures on the individual financial We therefore considered these three countries previously visited the Australia operations.
statement line items and disclosures and in to be financially significant to the Group.
The Group team held regular meetings with evaluating the effect of misstatements, both the component audit teams in Australia, A further 18 other countries were also subject individually and in aggregate, on the financial Germany and the UK, and also reviewed the to full scope audits by PwC teams in each of statements as a whole.
audit workpapers of each of those teams.
these countries, representing 21% of Group This helped to ensure that the Group audit 100 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 10.0 million 9.3 million How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax from Approximately 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax from continuing We believe that total assets is the most appropriate applied operations is the primary measure used by the measure to assess a holding company, and is a shareholders in assessing the performance of generally accepted auditing benchmark.
theGroup, and is a generally accepted auditingbenchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.5 million to 7.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 Group audit and 500,000 Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to add or to draw attention to.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors However, because not all future identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a events or conditions can be going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover theother information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, anyform of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 101 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report forthe year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement onpage 49 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement onpage 43 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofthe Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements that they have carried out a robust assessment ofthe principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report and Financial Statements that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and The directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period oftheir assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 94, that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole tobefair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements on pages 54 to 57 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 102 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, butis not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 ofPart16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any otherpurpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our priorconsent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 9 November 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 30 August 2017 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 103
