Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
In our opinion: Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Kier Group plcs Group financial statements and Company Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements financial statements the financial statements give a true section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash for our opinion.
flows for the year then ended: Independence the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the Company financial statements have been properly statements in the UK, which includes the Financial Reporting prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applicable to listed public Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Framework, and applicable law : and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as to the Group or the Company.
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Other than those disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement in page 78, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or We have audited the financial statements, included within the Company in the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2017, and the Consolidated cash flow statements, for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Risk Management and Audit Committee.
Our audit approach Overview 6.3m 2016: 6.2m Group financial statements Based on 5% of consolidated profit before tax from continuing operations excluding non-underlying items.
MATERIALITY 4.9m 2016: 5.0m Company financial statements Based on the lower of component and statutory materiality based on 2% of total assets.
We conducted audit work across all five of the Groups divisions, which accounted for 95% of AUDIT SCOPE Group revenues.
Valuation of land and properties Group.
AREAS OF Accounting for long-term contracts including profit recognition, work in progress and provisioning Group.
FOCUS Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk 105 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 105 Financial Statements Independent auditor's report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of land and properties We reviewed the property-specific development appraisals supporting the carrying values and challenged the key assumptions underlying Refer to page 76 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, these appraisals as follows: page 121 accounting policy and page 140 notes.
Residential Inventory in the Residential and Property divisions is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price We reviewed managements expected build cost per square less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the foot by comparing to the build costs for similar units on other net realisable value of inventory is carried out at each balance sheet sites and where there were differences, validating explanations date and is dependent upon managements estimate of forecast against third-party confirmations including quantity surveyor selling prices and build costs by reference to current prices, which cost estimates, correspondence with suppliers or comparable may require significant judgement.
properties on other sites: We challenged management on their intention to develop The Group holds inventory of 593.9m 2016: 675.9m.
The these sites: and Residential division comprises the Groups land held for residential development of 39.0m 2016: 137.3m and residential work We challenged managements forecast sales prices to in progress of 132.7m 2016: 114.6m where building work supporting third-party evidence from managements external has commenced.
sales agents and by comparing the forecast sales price of a sample of sales prices achieved and the list prices of In particular, we focused our work on those sites with a value of comparable assets as published by estate agents.
46.7m 2016: 47.1m where there is no immediate intention of development as there is a heightened risk that they are valued Property above their recoverable amount.
Therefore a change in the Groups We reconciled the development appraisals to the forecast estimate of sales price and build cost could have a WIP summary: material impact on the carrying value of inventories in the Groups We interviewed the Development Manager responsible for each financial statements.
site to understand the status of the development and challenged the key judgements and inputs: The Property division comprises the Groups land held for commercial development of 3.2m 2016: 3.1m and mixed use We obtained, where applicable, third party independent commercial and residential development work in progress of 55.0m comparable evidence to support the rental and yield rates 2016: 34.2m where building has commenced.
adopted in the appraisal and ensured that they were prepared by suitably qualified professionals: In particular, we focused our work on testing the recoverable amount We obtained where applicable 3rd Party independent of work in progress in commercial and residential developments as construction quotes from tender documents, surveyor reports this could have a material impact on the carrying value of inventories or similar and ensured that they were prepared by suitably held in the Groups financial statements.
qualified professionals: We obtained confirmation from external sources for any other applicable items to the appraisal and: We obtained confirmation over legal title and Planning Consent of each development.
We did not encounter any issues through our audit procedures that indicated the land or properties tested were impaired.
106 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 106 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for long-term contracts including profit We focused our work on those contracts with the greatest estimation recognition, work in progress and provisioning uncertainty over the final contract values and therefore profit outcome.
These in particular included the forecast end of life Refer to page 76 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report positions on a number of infrastructure projects which have and page 118 accounting policy.
experienced significant change and therefore cost growth.
The Group has significant long-term contracts in both the We challenged the judgements applied in managements forecasts, Construction and Services divisions.
in particular the key assumptions, which included the expected The recognition of profit on construction in accordance with IAS 11 recovery of variations, claims and compensation events from clients, is based on the stage of completion of contract activity.
This is and estimated recoveries from subcontractors, designers, and assessed by reference to the proportion of contract costs incurred insurers included in the forecast.
for the work performed at the balance sheet date relative to the We inspected correspondence and meeting minutes with customers estimated total costs of the contract at completion.
concerning variations, claims and compensation events, and Recoverability of work in progress on long-term services contracts obtained third-party assessments of these from legal or technical involves significant estimates including an assessment of the end experts contracted by the Group, if applicable, to assess whether of life outcome of the projects.
this information was consistent with the estimates made.
Profit on contracts is a significant risk for our audit because of the We inspected selected signed contracts for key clauses to judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast identify relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing of cost costs and revenue on contracts.
An error in the contract forecast overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual damages and could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss success fees and assessed whether these key clauses have been recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
appropriately reflected in the amounts included in the forecasts.
These judgements include the expected recovery of costs arising We inspected correspondence with insurers relating to recognised from the following: variations to the contract requested by the insurance claims as well as assessments of these undertaken customer, compensation events, and claims made both by and by the insurers and Groups legal experts where applicable to against the Group for delays or other additional costs arising or assess whether this information supported the position taken projected to arise.
The inclusion of these estimated amounts in the on the contract.
contract forecast at an inappropriate level could result in a material In respect of long-term Environmental Services contracts we error in the level of profit or loss recognised by the Group.
challenged the assumptions in the cash flow models surrounding efficiency improvements in the cost base and projected revenues from the sale of recyclate.
Overall based on these procedures, we are satisfied that the work in progress relating to the Groups contracts is appropriately stated and that revenue and profits have been recorded appropriately.
co. uk 107 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 107 Financial Statements Independent auditor's report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made to the statutory result before tax to derive underlying performance.
In order Refer to page 76 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, to do this we considered: page 118 accounting policy and page 125 notes.
The Groups accounting policy on exceptional and In order to give a better understanding of the underlying performance non-underlying items: of the business, management has presented a view of the underlying results of the Group, with separate disclosure of The application of IFRS, in particular IAS 1: and European non-underlying items consisting of the following: Securities and Markets Authority ESMA guidelines on alternative performance measures issued on 3 July 2016.
26.3m of costs and charges associated with the closure of Hong Kong operations and associated contract losses: We challenged management on the appropriateness of the classification of each item, being mindful that classification should 2.2m of charges in relation to the establishment of Cross be balanced between gains and losses, the basis for the Keys Homes joint venture: classification clearly disclosed and applied consistently from one A 40.0m gain relating to the disposal of Mouchel Consulting: year to the next.
60.4m of costs associated with the closure of the Caribbean Our work identified certain items that management had classified as business and associated contract losses: non-underlying which we considered to be more judgemental in 8.0m of charges in relation to provisions for HSE fines arising nature than others.
These included the Caribbean and Hong Kong from revised sentencing guidelines: exit costs of 60.4m and 26.3m respectively.
In each case these 11.1m of charges in relation to under-performing contracts included a material project loss in addition to closure costs.
Having in Environmental Services: assessed in detail the nature of the individual components of the A 7.6m loss relating to the disposal of the investment exit costs, we were satisfied with their presentation as nonin Biogen: underlying and the explanations provided in the financial statements as to their nature.
5.5m of charges including 1.4m loss arising on disposal of Saudi Mining business and 4.1m of professional costs We assessed the nature of material non-recurring gains during the relating to M&A activity incurred during the year: and year impacting the underlying result before tax and challenged management as to whether these should be identified within non- 25.2m of intangible amortisation, discount unwind underlying items.
on acquired businesses and mining interest payable on borrowings.
Having considered the nature and quantum of these items, overall The determination of which items are classified as non-underlying we were satisfied that the presentation of non-underlying and is subject to judgement and therefore users of the accounts exceptional items in the financial statements for the year ended could be misled if amounts are not classified appropriately 30 June 2017 is materially appropriate.
We also considered the risk of one-off gains during the year not being properly identified and therefore presented inappropriately within underlying profit.
108 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 108 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Groups operations and reporting process is structured around five divisions represented by Property, Residential, Construction, Services, and Corporate.
All five reporting divisions are considered financially significant and were in scope for the Group audit.
The vast majority of the Groups operations are concentrated in the UK and account for 93% of the Group revenue, with the remaining 7% generated from overseas businesses.
Our audit approach was designed to obtain coverage over 95% of the Groups revenue which included UK and overseas operations.
We are satisfied that we obtained appropriate audit coverage over the Groups Income statement, Balance sheet and cash flows through our audit work on the UK and overseas operations.
During the course of the audit, we have visited a number of projects and operations located across the UK.
We have also visited the Groups operations in Dubai and held meetings with local management and our local component audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 6.3m 2016: 6.2m.
How we determined it 5% of consolidated profit before tax from continuing Approximately 1% of total assets, limited by the operations and excluding non-underlying items.
Rationale for Based on our professional judgement, we determined We believe that calculating statutory materiality based materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of on 1% of total assets is appropriate as total assets is benchmark applied consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying a typical primary measure for users of the financial items.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is statements of holding companies, and is a generally the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any accepted auditing benchmark.
disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.9m and 5.5m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Risk Management and Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3m Group audit 2016: 0.3m and 0.3m Company audit 2016: 0.3m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future events directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in or conditions can be predicted, this statement is preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern ability to continue as a going concern.
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
co. uk 109 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 109 Financial Statements Independent auditor's report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report and Accounts other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information: we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 62 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 62 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 62, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 73 describing the work of the Risk Management and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Risk Management and Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
110 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 110 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Remuneration Other required reporting In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 exception reporting to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Companies Act 2006.
CA06 in our opinion: Responsibilities for the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or and the audit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors received from branches not visited by us: or Responsibilities set out on page 104, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true are not made: or and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal the Company financial statements and the part of the control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, agreement with the accounting records and returns.
whether due to fraud or error.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as Appointment a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going Following the recommendation of the Risk Management and Audit concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Committee, we were appointed by the members on 13 November directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three years, covering the years ended Auditors responsibilities for the audit of 30 June 2015 to 30 June 2017. the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material for and on behalf of  LLP misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
London A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of 20 September 2017 the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
co. uk 111 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 111
