Independent Auditors Report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Members of Genus plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Genus plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Statement of Cash Flows: and the related notes 1 to 55.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture Orphan pension scheme liabilities related to the Milk Pension Fund Impairment of the ABS cash generating unit Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.2m 2016: 2.2m, which is 5.0% 2016: 5.3% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets.
Scoping Our audit scope covered 17 components 2016: 22.
Of these, eight were subject to a full audit 2016: 11, whilst the remaining nine 2016: 11 were subject to specified audit procedures.
The coverage of key account balances was 82% of revenue, 80% of profit before tax and 92% of net assets.
Significant changes Last year we included a key audit matter relating to the impairment of capitalised development in our approach costs, this was not included this year following the related court rulings in the year which have removed any restriction that prevents commercial launch.
Our impairment risk in the current period has been focused specifically on the assets associated with the ABS business, due to the more limited headroom associated with this cash generating unit.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 85 Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Genus plc Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern We confirm that we basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors have nothing statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Directors Report on material to add or page 82. draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We agreed with the relation to: Directors adoption the disclosures on pages 12 - 13 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being of the going managed or mitigated: concern basis of the Directors confirmation on page 84 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the accounting and we principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future did not identify any performance, solvency or liquidity: such material the Directors statement on page 84 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the uncertainties.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material However, because uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period not all future events of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or conditions can be the Directors explanation on page 82 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the predicted, this Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be statement is not a appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the guarantee as to the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Groups ability to period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any continue as a going necessary qualifications or assumptions: and concern.
whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture Key audit matter The Group calculates the fair value of biological assets through the use of discounted cash flow description models and recent transaction prices.
As at 30 June 2017 the total fair value of biological assets is 353m.
Our risk is focused specifically on the following key assumptions for each species, being the most sensitive assumptions applied in the valuation models.
Certain assumptions contain high levels of management judgement and therefore represent potential areas where management could fraudulently manipulate the financial statements.
For bovine asset valuations: the future growth rates of proven and genomic semen sales: the biological asset value discount factor: and: the discount rates applied.
For porcine asset valuations: the expected useful breeding life of pigs: the number of offspring generations valued in the nucleus herd, and: the discount rate applied.
Details of the biological assets are disclosed in note 15 to the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 58 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements in note 4.
| 86 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How the scope Our response to this risk considers the separate elements of the fair value calculations: the basis of our audit for managements estimates and judgements applied in the key assumptions: the validity of responded to the transactional data used for other inputs: and the mechanical integrity of the models themselves.
key audit matter For the bovine asset valuations, our audit work included obtaining an understanding of managements processes surrounding the compilation of the future demand, marketable life and production volume forecasts.
We considered the appropriateness of projected prices, volume growth rates against historical trends, current performance and third party market data, and analysed managements historical forecasting accuracy.
For the porcine asset valuations our audit work included consideration of the appropriateness of managements assessment of the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herd and expected useful lives.
We tested the expected percentages of animals to be sold, retained and slaughtered as well as recent selling prices by reference to historical transactional data.
For all other assumptions in each model we challenged the significant estimates with reference to third party or historical transactional data as appropriate.
For both species valuation models, we used internal valuation experts in our testing of the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
We also tested the mechanical integrity of the spreadsheets used to calculate the fair values using analytical tools and performed sensitivity analyses on the key assumptions.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of biological assets are appropriate.
Orphan pension scheme liabilities related to the Milk Pension Fund MPF Key audit matter Genus is party to the MPF, a joint and several liable multi-employer pension scheme, and is description exposed to the risk of additional liabilities from the default of other scheme members beyond its current share of 85% of the liabilities.
Our risk is focused on the financial position and stability of the other employers within the MPF.
Our risk is also focused on the accounting treatment of National Milk Record plcs NMR withdrawal from the scheme.
Details of the defined benefit pension scheme are disclosed in note 27 to the accounts.
How the scope In response to the risk of additional liabilities for the multi-employer scheme arising from other of our audit employers, we have considered the financial strength and stability of remaining employers in the responded to the scheme and their ability to contribute to the deficit through a review of the most recent publicly key audit matter available financial information, including the latest financial statement and media reports We have reviewed the accounting and disclosure for NMR withdrawal from the MPF, as set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
Key observations From our work performed, we are satisfied that the accounting and disclosure is appropriate for the orphan liabilities and NMRs withdrawal from the scheme.
Impairment of the ABS CGU Key audit matter The Group has 32.4m of goodwill on its balance sheet and total assets of 132.8m in relation to description the ABS CGU.
On an annual basis, management is required to perform an impairment assessment for goodwill, and to assess for indicators of impairment in respect of other intangible and tangible assets.
Assessment of the carrying value of CGUs assets is a key risk due to the quantum of the balance and the judgements involved in setting the key assumptions and assertions used by management to support their assessment of the carrying value.
In testing the carrying value for impairment, management has made a number of key assumptions including short-term and long-term growth rates and discount rates.
Our risk in the current period has been focused specifically on the assets associated with the ABS business due to the more limited headroom associated with this CGU.
The associated disclosure is included in note 14.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 87 Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Genus plc Impairment of the ABS CGU continued How the scope We challenged the assumptions used by management in their annual impairment assessment by of our audit comparing the projected growth rates and forecast cash flows against historical trends achieved responded to the in the business in the wake of what has been challenging market conditions.
We analysed historical key audit matter budgeting accuracy to assess the reliability of managements forecasts.
We reviewed third-party market data sources used by management in their forecast models.
We evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment assumptions to reasonably possible changes and considered the associated disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment review within note 14.
We used valuation specialists within the audit team to challenge the discount rates applied to these cash flows by reference to market data, including the risk premium applied to each CGU.
Key observations From our work performed, we are satisfied that the carrying value of the goodwill and other assets attributable to the ABS segment is appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 2.2m 2016: 2.2m Basis for 5.0% 2016: 5.3% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological determining assets.
materiality Rationale for the We have used a profit based measure given the Group is listed and therefore shareholders focus on benchmark applied profitability.
The profit is adjusted for the exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets to avoid distortion that could otherwise arise due to non-recurring items and fair value movements.
Group materiality Adjusted PBT: 2.2m 44.3m Component materiality range 1.1m to 1.76m Audit Committee PBT reporting threshold Group materiality 0.1m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2016: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 17 components 2016: 22.
Of these, eight were subject to a full audit 2016: 11, whilst the remaining nine 2016: 11 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The change in number of components within scope reflects the impact of acquisitions and certain entities which are no longer significant to the Group following internal restructuring.
| 88 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These 17 components represent the principal business units and account for 82% 2016: 88% of the Groups revenue and 80% 2016: 92% of the Groups profit before tax and 92% 2016: 99% of the Groups net assets.
REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX NET ASSETS Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope specified audit procedures specified audit procedures specified audit procedures Out of scope Out of scope Review at group level At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits.
The lead audit partner visited the United States, Mexico and Brazil components during the current and previous year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report in respect of report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 89 Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Genus plc Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain report in respect of disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors these matters.
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 8 June 2006 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 12, covering the years ending 30 June 2006 to 30 June 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Andrew Bond, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 6 September 2017 | 90 Genus plc Annual Report 2017
