Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of The Rank Group Plc We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Opinion sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the The Rank Group plcs Group financial statements and parent Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so company financial statements the financial statements that we might state to the companys members those matters give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Groups profit for the year then ended: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the financial statements have been properly prepared in company and the companys members as a body, for our audit accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and, in the case of the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and Act 2006. : and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following the financial statements have been prepared in accordance information in the annual report, in relation to which the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of material to add or draw attention to: the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 40-44 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being which comprise: managed or mitigated: Group Parent company Balance sheet as at 30 June 2017 Balance sheet as at 30 June 2017 the directors confirmation set out on page 40 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Group income statement for the Statement of changes in equity for year then ended the year then ended principal risks facing the entity, including those that would Group statement of comprehensive Statement of cash flow for the year threaten its business model, future performance, solvency income for the year then ended then ended or liquidity: Statement of changes Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial the directors statement set out on page 41 in the financial in equity for the year statements including a summary of then ended significant accounting policies statements about whether they considered it appropriate to Statement of cash flow for the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing year then ended them, and their identification of any material uncertainties Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of statements, including at least twelve months from the date of approval of the a summary of significant accounting policies financial statements whether the directors statement in relation to going concern The financial reporting framework that has been applied in required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union obtained in the audit: or and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as the directors explanation set out on page 41 in the annual applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, Act 2006. over what period they have done so and why they consider Basis for opinion that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to We conducted our audit in accordance with International whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Our responsibilities under those standards are further described as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary statements section of our report below.
We are independent qualifications or assumptions.
of the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
90 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.9 million 2015 16: 3.8 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
In our assessment profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six 2015 16: six components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further eight 2015 16: seven components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% 2015 16: 98% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, 100% 2015 16: 100% of Revenue and 100% 2015 16: 99% of Total Assets.
Key audit Revenue recognition including the risk of management override.
matters Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and adequacy of property lease provisions.
Exceptional items including restructuring costs.
What has In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the migration of data to the new online gaming changed?
As the migration was a non-recurring event that occurred in the prior year, this was not viewed as a key audit matter for the year ended 30 June 2017.
In the current year we assessed that the risk relating to exceptional items including restructuring cost was heightened due to the additional costs that were included in exceptional items for the restructuring undertaken by the Group.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Revenue recognition: 707.2 million Our procedures were designed to corroborate our assessment that 2015 16: 708.5 million revenue should be closely aligned to cash banked for the Retail We concluded Refer to the Audit Committee Report page N A : business, and to customer balances and cash for the Digital business, that revenue Accounting policies page 104 : and Note 2 of and to identify the manual adjustments that are made to revenue for recognition, the Consolidated Financial Statements page 110 further testing.
and adjustments Our assessment is that the vast majority of revenue We updated our understanding of the revenue processes and tested to revenue, are transactions, for both the venues and digital businesses, certain key financial and IT controls over the recognition and appropriate.
are non-complex, with no judgement applied over the measurement of revenue.
We consider there is a potential for We used our computer aided analytics tools to perform a correlation management override to achieve revenue targets via analysis to identify the extent to which revenue was linked to cash topside manual journal entries posted to revenue.
for UK venues and customer balances for Digital, then investigated Revenue could be inaccurately stated as a result.
and obtained explanations for those items above a specified threshold where this was not the case.
Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We identified and tested specific journals such as those manually posted directly to revenue, outside of expected hours, or by unexpected individuals and for large or unusual amounts.
We also verified the recognition and measurement of revenue by tracing a sample of transactions, selected at random, throughout the year to source data to verify the accuracy of reported revenue.
For venues, we attended and re-performed cash counts at a sample of nineteen casino and bingo venues, selected using a risk based approach and also included a random sample, at year end to verify the appropriate cut-off of revenue.
For Digital, we reconciled the year-end customer balances to the system report, which was tested for completeness and accuracy.
com | 91 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Impairment of tangible and intangible assets We updated our understanding of managements annual impairment and adequacy of property lease provisions testing process.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : The net We ensured that the methodology of the impairment exercise Accounting policies page 107 : and Note 12 of impairment continues to be consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 the Consolidated Financial Statements page 122 charge of Impairment of Assets.
5.5 million At 30 June 2017 the carrying value of tangible and We assessed the forecasts underlying the impairment review and and onerous intangible assets was 599.4 million, 241.6 million of agreed to budgets approved by the Board, reviewing these against lease release of which relate to indefinite life intangible assets primarily actual performance and historic accuracy of forecasting.
We also 14.7 million is casino and other gaming licences or goodwill.
performed sensitivity analysis on earnings multiples for all CGUs and appropriately In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, growth rates applied to cash flows for certain CGUs to determine the recognised.
management disclosed that in addition to the parameters that should they arise, may give a different conclusion as We highlighted impairment charge of 7.7 million and impairment to the carrying value of assets assessed.
that a reasonably reversal of 2.5 million, a reasonably possible change possible change We validated other key assumptions such as discount rates to in customer visits, win margins or spend per head could in certain key supporting evidence and corroborated these to industry averages lead to impairments in other Cash Generating Units assumptions trends with the assistance of EY internal experts.
CGU where no impairment is currently recognised.
underpinning We compared the individual CGU projections to historic performance the forecasts for This is an area of focus due to the significance of the and observable external trends and corroborated the reasons for certain CGUs carrying value of the assets being assessed and due to deviations to third party evidence as appropriate.
could lead to the level of management judgement required in the For property lease provisions we understood managements process additional assumptions impacting the impairment assessment.
The for identifying onerous leases and validated that the inputs to the impairment.
main assumptions are the future results of the business calculations for onerous lease provisions were appropriate.
This We concluded including future cash flows, growth rates and earnings included assessing the recoverability of sub-let income and comparing that the property multiples applied to cash flows as well as discount rates.
forecast earnings to historic performance, to determine whether provisions In addition, the Group holds a provision for property appropriate provision had been made.
This also included an recognised are leases of 24.6 million for unoccupied properties and assessment of whether the appropriate discount rate had been appropriate.
properties which are trading at a loss.
In determining applied by checking the discount rate to external market data.
the appropriate level of provision required, management We checked underlying calculations and agreed key inputs to judgement is required in assessing whether the costs third party evidence including lease agreements and invoices for provided represent the lower of the cost of fulfilling rent and rates.
the contract and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the contract.
For property leases that were exited, we obtained lease exit agreements.
In accordance with IAS 37, management recognised a credit to the income statement of 14.6 million relating to onerous property lease contracts exited during the period and a charge of 1.2 million for additional provisions.
There is a high level of management judgement required in the assumptions impacting the assessment and the sensitivity of the model.
This is primarily the amount of sub-let income and period for which sub-let income can be obtained where properties are vacant or the extent to which lease obligations are covered by earnings generated.
We therefore consider there is a higher likelihood that a material misstatement could arise as there is a risk that these provisions may be incorrectly valued.
92 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Indirect taxation: 222.2 million contributed We updated our understanding of the process for preparing the partial to indirect taxes 2015 16: 245.5 million exemption calculation, and assessed the controls that management Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : has in place to prevent and detect errors in this calculation.
We conclude Accounting policies page 108 : and Note 21 of that the positions We employed tax specialists to assist the audit team in reviewing the the Consolidated Financial Statements page 136 taken by technical support for indirect tax submissions and to perform a review management Indirect tax is a complex area in the betting and gaming for completeness of effected changes in indirect tax legislation to are appropriate industry.
We focus on this to ensure that all changes to check they had been appropriately reflected.
and accurately legislation and rates levied have been correctly applied.
We reviewed correspondence received from tax authorities during the reflected in the Judgement is also applied in estimating amounts period in order to assess the completeness of uncertain tax positions financial results.
payable to regulatory authorities in certain jurisdictions.
and to corroborate managements position.
We have involved our Due to the complexity of regulations and also the level indirect taxation specialists in assessing the implications of matters of management judgement required in determining if subject to correspondence received from tax authorities.
an assessment could give rise to an additional liability, this gives rise to a risk over the completeness of amounts recorded related to indirect taxation.
Exceptional items including restructuring costs, We agreed material exceptional items to supporting documentation.
0 net credit of 1.0 million 2015 16: net credit of We also validated that the exceptional items are classified as such Exceptional 12.9 million in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and regulatory items have Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : guidance.
been disclosed Accounting policies page 109 : and Note 4 of We performed specific audit procedures to test the appropriateness in accordance the Consolidated Financial Statements page 114 of the costs recognised related to the restructuring, which included: with the Groups The application of the Groups accounting policy for Confirming that there is a detailed formal plan in place, accounting policy.
exceptional items requires judgement by management represented by a business case that had gone through the and careful consideration needs to be given to the appropriate approval process: nature and magnitude of these items to ensure Confirming that a valid expectation had been raised to affected consistency in approach between periods.
Due to the employees, represented by a formal announcement: magnitude of these items and the level of judgement required, we consider there to be a potential for Corroborating managements assumptions where the cost to the inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items.
business is estimated at the year-end: and In the current year management have recognised Testing a sample of employees selected at random to validate that net exceptional income of 1.0 million comprising of the costs recognised are accurate.
a net release of property provisions of 14.7 million, We also performed an assessment of costs that had been included restructuring costs of 8.8 million, net impairment within the exceptional restructuring charge to validate that they were charge of 4.2 million and aborted acquisition costs associated to the restructuring and therefore classified appropriately as of 0.7 million.
Our application of materiality statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the We apply the concept of materiality in planning and nature and extent of our audit procedures.
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.9 million misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
2015 16: 3.8 million, which is 5% 2015 16: 5% of profit before Materiality tax adjusted for exceptional items.
In our assessment profit before The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, tax adjusted for exceptional items provides us with a consistent individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Starting Adjustments Materiality basis Profit before tax for the year ended Net release from onerous property leases Profit before tax adjusted for 30 June 2017 79.7 million 14.7 million exceptional items basis for materiality 78.7 million Net impairment charge 4.2 million Materiality of 3.9 million Group restructuring including 5% of profit before tax adjusted relocation costs 8.8 million for exceptional items 3.9 million Aborted acquisition costs 0.7 million www.
com | 93 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Performance materiality An overview of the scope of our audit The application of materiality at the individual account or Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the assessment of the Groups overall control environment, organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide our judgement was that performance materiality was controls, changes in the business environment and other 50% 2015 16: 50% of our planning materiality, namely factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing 2.0 million 2015 16: 1.9 million.
We continue to set the level of work to be performed at each entity.
performance materiality at this percentage to take into account In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the the inherently high risk nature of the industry in which the Group operates.
We have also taken into consideration changes Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial within the Group including restructuring and the impact this could have on the operations of the Group.
Our objective in statements, of the thirty one 2015 16: thirty two reporting components of the Group, we selected fourteen 2015 16: adopting this approach was to conclude that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning thirteen components covering entities within the United Kingdom, Alderney, Spain, Belgium and Gibraltar, which materiality level.
represent the principal business units within the Group.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement Of the fourteen 2015 16: thirteen components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for 2015 16: six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the remaining eight 2015 16: seven components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts was 0.1 million to 1.1 million 2015 16: 0.1 million to 1.4 million.
in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Reporting threshold The reporting components where we performed full or An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
specific audit procedures accounted for 100% 2015 16: 98% of the Groups Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would 100% 2015 16: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 100% report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess 2015 16: 99% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, of 0.2 million 2015 16: 0.2 million, which is set at 5% of the full scope components contributed 62% 2015 16: 76% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold the Groups Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The specific We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the scope components contributed 38% 2015 16: 22% of the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in Groups Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, 9% light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming 2015 16: 8% of the Groups Revenue and 19% 2015 16: 15% our opinion.
of the Groups Total Assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the Group.
Of the remaining seventeen 2015 16: nineteen components that together represent 0% of the Groups Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, none are individually greater than 1% 2015 16: 1% of the Groups Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
94 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work Changes from the prior year performed by our audit teams.
There are no significant changes in the scoping from the prior year.
The coverage of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional Total profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items from our audit of full scope components has decreased items coverage CY PY from prior year as a result of increased profits reported by the component in Spain which is designated as a specific scope Full scope components 62% 76% component.
The key audit matters for the Group were subject Specic scope to full audit procedures at each of the full and specific scope components 38% 22% locations with significant revenue streams and balances.
REview scope components 0% 2% Integrated team structure In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on all six of Total revenue coverage CY PY these directly by the primary audit team.
For the eight specific scope components, specific audit procedures were performed Full scope components 91% 92% directly by the primary audit team for seven of these components.
Specic scope The final specific scope component is based in Spain where the components 9% 8% work was performed by component auditors.
In relation to the specific scope component in Spain, the Senior Statutory Auditor was also involved in the risk assessment and determining which accounts were in scope and attended the audit closing meeting by conference call, made specific enquiries of local management and reviewed the summary audit findings reported by the local audit team.
Total assets coverage CY PY Other information The other information comprises the information included in Full scope components 81% 84% the annual report, including the five year review and shareholder Specic scope information set out on pages 145-148, other than the financial components 19% 15% statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are REview scope components 0% 1% responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
com | 95 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to Matters on which we are required to report by exception our responsibility to specifically address the following items In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group in the other information and to report as uncorrected material and the parent company and its environment obtained in the misstatements of the other information where we conclude that course of the audit, we have not identified material those items meet the following conditions: misstatements in: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 88 the strategic report or the directors report: or the statement given by the directors that they consider the the information about internal control and risk management annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about balanced and understandable and provides the information share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, and 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters our knowledge obtained in the audit: or in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to Audit committee reporting set out on page 59 the report to you if, in our opinion: section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent audit committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been obtained in the audit]: or received from branches not visited by us: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate the parent company financial statements and the part of Governance Code set out on page 54 the parts of the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor law are not made: or in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly we have not received all the information and explanations disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK we require for our audit Corporate Governance Code.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared Opinions on other matters prescribed by by the company the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to Responsibilities of directors be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities Companies Act 2006. statement set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of satisfied that they give a true and fair view in accordance, and the audit: for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free the information given in the strategic report and the directors from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are those reports have been prepared in accordance with responsible for assessing the Group and Companys ability to applicable legal requirements: continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters the information about internal control and risk management related to going concern and using the going concern basis of systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 Group or the Company or to cease operations, or has no and 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules realistic alternative but to do so.
sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
96 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures the financial statements to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Our procedures included a review of board minutes to identify whether the financial statements as a whole are free from any noncompliance with laws and regulations, a review of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to the reporting to the Audit Committee on compliance with issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable regulations, enquiries of the Director of Legal Services and assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that enquiries of management.
an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always The Group operates in the gaming industry which is a highly detect a material misstatement when it exists.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and expected to influence the economic decisions of users capabilities, which included the use of an expert where taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify As the gaming industry is highly regulated, we have obtained and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial an understanding of the regulations and the potential impact statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit on the Group and in assessing the control environment evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement we have considered the compliance of the Group to these due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate regulations as part of our audit procedures, which included responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected a review of correspondence received from the regulator.
fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting rests with both those charged with governance of the Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Our approach was as follows Other matters we are required to address We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Following the recommendation of the audit committee, frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined we were appointed as auditors by the Audit Committee that the most significant are The UK Gambling Commission, and signed an engagement letter on 31 July 2017.
We were Gambling Act 2005, Money Laundering regulations, The appointed by the company at the annual general meeting on Alderney Gambling Control Commission and License 22 April 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year Conditions & The Code of Practice 2008. ending 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
We understood how The Rank Group Plc is complying The period of total uninterrupted engagement including with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, previous renewals and reappointments is eight periods, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance covering the periods ending 31 December 2010 to procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated 30 June 2017. our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical provided to the Audit and Risk Committees and Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
and we remain independent of the Group and the Company We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial in conducting the audit.
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to might occur by meeting with management within various the audit committee.
parts of the business to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by Julie Carlyle management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions Senior statutory auditor of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud Statutory Auditor risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and London were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the 16 August 2017 financial statements were free from fraud or error.
