Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Company for the year ended 30 June 2017 which comprise on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated statement obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit of changes in equity, Company statement of changes in equity, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Consolidated cash flow statement, Company cash flow statement, We were appointed as auditor of the company then Ashmore Group and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 1 to 4.
Limited by the Directors following its incorporation on 30 November 1998.
Subsequent to the companys conversion into a public limited In our opinion: company and the public listing of its shares on the London Stock the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Exchange on 3 October 2006, we were reappointed as auditor of Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 Ashmore Group plc by the Directors on 31 October 2007.
The period and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: of total uninterrupted engagement is 19 years ended 30 June 2017 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 11 years since the Companys public listing.
We have fulfilled our accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC the parent Company financial statements have been properly Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No nonprepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Overview 2006: and Materiality: Group 10.07m 2016: 6.75m the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the financial statements 5% 2016: 4% of Group profit requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group as a whole before tax financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Coverage 97% 2016: 97% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Management fee rebates Seed capital investments Share-based payments Removed risks Intangible assets 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and the Company for the year ended 30 June 2017 which comprise on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated statement obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our of changes in equity, Company statement of changes in equity, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters Consolidated cash flow statement, Company cash flow statement, were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial We were appointed as auditor of the company then Ashmore Group and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 1 to 4. statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate Limited by the Directors following its incorporation on 30 November opinion on these matters.
Subsequent to the companys conversion into a public limited In our opinion: The risk Our response company and the public listing of its shares on the London Stock the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Exchange on 3 October 2006, we were reappointed as auditor of Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 Management fee rebates Bespoke, complex rebate Our procedures included: Ashmore Group plc by the Directors on 31 October 2007.
The period and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: calculations: of total uninterrupted engagement is 19 years ended 30 June 2017 41.4 million: 2016: 40.5m Procedures in relation to rebate rates: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 11 years since the Companys public listing.
We have fulfilled our Management fee rebates payable Control design, implementation and effectiveness Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the to customers is an area of focus as We evaluated and tested the key processes and controls in place Committee report, page 98 adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC individual rebate agreements include over the integrity of system data for rebate rates and the controls accounting policy and page 100 the parent Company financial statements have been properly Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No nonbespoke, complex rebate calculations.
around approving any changes made to the rebate rates in the financial disclosures.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
The Group has an automated system system by inspecting evidence of review and approval.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act to calculate the majority of We evaluated the control in the system to ensure that rebate rates Overview 2006: and management fee rebates.
are only effective after necessary approvals are granted in the system.
Materiality: Group 10.07m 2016: 6.75m the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Test of details financial statements Risk in relation to rebate rates 5% 2016: 4% of Group profit requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We agreed a selection, using a statistical sampling plan, of rebate as a whole before tax The rebate rates are subject to financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
rates used in the calculation by the system to the original legal periodic amendments.
As a result, Coverage 97% 2016: 97% of Group profit documents.
transactions in the financial before tax statements require complete and Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Procedures in relation to assets under management: accurate communication of rebate Recurring risks Management fee rebates Outsourcing controls rates between several teams which We obtained an understanding of the control environment and Seed capital investments increases the risk of error of evaluated the operating effectiveness of controls in operation by Share-based payments incomplete recording of these inspecting the internal controls reports prepared by the service transactions.
Removed risks Intangible assets organisation and attested to by independent service auditors.
Risk in relation to assets Control observation under management Through retrieving system data and records we assessed the Assets under management used for completeness and accuracy of the assets under management data rebate calculations are sourced from flow through the interface from the third-party service provider and different parties including outsourced other in-house systems to the rebate calculation system.
service organisations and internal General procedures: teams.
Complete and accurate transmission of assets under Control design, implementation and effectiveness management data to the rebate We performed testing over user access and authorisation controls calculation system is a key audit risk.
over the automated rebate calculation system through inspection of system configurations and records.
We performed testing over system-generated reports through retrieving system data and records to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of those reports.
We also tested the calculation logic in the system by tracing one calculation in the system.
Test of details We independently recalculated a selection, using a statistical sampling plan, of management fee rebates and agreed the recalculated fees to the general ledger records.
We reconciled the rebates recognised within the general ledger to the output from the automated rebate calculation system for all system calculated rebates.
Our results: Our testing did not identify any deficiencies in controls that would have required us to amend the nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
We found no differences in the calculations above the materiality level over which we are required to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2081 17 81 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 The risk Our response Seed capital investments Classification of seed capital Our procedures included: investments 210.2 million: 2016: 238.5m Accounting analysis The Group invests in funds that We critically assessed the Directors stated policy for Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk are managed by its investment compliance with the accounting standards and assessed the Committee report, page 96 management subsidiaries seed appropriateness of the framework designed to determine accounting policy and page 113 capital investments.
These funds whether control exists with reference to aggregate economic financial disclosures.
should be consolidated where it has interests in funds and the strength of other investors rights to been determined that the Group has replace the Groups subsidiaries as the investment manager.
In order to External confirmation determine whether control exists for each fund, the Group needs to assess For each fund we agreed external inputs to the aggregate the strength of linkage between the economic interest determination including direct holdings and power to govern the funds operations indirect holdings, where relevant held by the Group to and the level of variable returns independent confirmations from fund administrators.
Assessing judgements The outcome of the assessment For each fund we critically assessed the judgement on the drives the classification of seed capital strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups investments which in turn drives the subsidiaries as investment manager including reviewing the accounting treatment for these number of investors in each fund, if the fund is closed or investments.
open-ended and the investors consent required to change the investment manager.
The classification of the seed capital investments represents a key audit Test of details area as the assessment of the linkage, For a selection of the funds, we agreed internal inputs to and thus determination of control the aggregate economic interest determination including which leads to the classification, management fees and performance fees percentages, requires judgement.
where applicable to the funds legal documents.
Assessing transparency We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures on the classification of seed capital investment.
Our results We found that the Groups judgements made in determining these classifications were acceptable, and that the disclosures on the basis of classification judgements were acceptable.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 The risk Our response The risk Our response Seed capital investments Classification of seed capital Our procedures included: Share-based payments for Subjective estimate Our procedures included: investments Executive Directors 210.2 million: 2016: 238.5m Accounting analysis The Group issues share awards to Assessing experts credentials The Group invests in funds that 4.8 million: 2016: 2.2m employees under a number of shareWe critically assessed the Directors stated policy for We assessed the objectivity and competency of the Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk are managed by its investment based compensation plans.
The fair compliance with the accounting standards and assessed the third-party remuneration consultant.
Committee report, page 96 Refer to page 50 Audit and Risk management subsidiaries seed value of shares granted to Executive appropriateness of the framework designed to determine accounting policy and page 113 Committee report, page 98 Methodology choice and remuneration consultant capital investments.
These funds Directors are subject the achievement whether control exists with reference to aggregate economic financial disclosures.
accounting policy and page 124 expertise should be consolidated where it has of some performance conditions, interests in funds and the strength of other investors rights to financial disclosures.
been determined that the Group has being the Groups Total Shareholder We utilised our internal specialist to critically assess replace the Groups subsidiaries as the investment manager.
In order to Return TSR in comparison to its peer the methodology used in the third party remuneration External confirmation determine whether control exists for group as defined by the Remuneration consultant reports to estimate the fair value of the shares each fund, the Group needs to assess For each fund we agreed external inputs to the aggregate Committee, investment granted to Executive Directors with reference to the the strength of linkage between the economic interest determination including direct holdings and outperformance relevant to the performance conditions.
power to govern the funds operations indirect holdings, where relevant held by the Group to benchmark over three and five years, Test of details and the level of variable returns independent confirmations from fund administrators.
growth in assets under management We traced the estimation made by the remuneration receivable by the Group.
and profitability as assessed by the Assessing judgements consultant on the fair value of the shares granted as a function diluted earnings per share relative The outcome of the assessment For each fund we critically assessed the judgement on the of the likelihood of the performance conditions being met, to to a comparator index over the drives the classification of seed capital strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups those used in the determination of the charge of share-based performance period.
The Group uses investments which in turn drives the subsidiaries as investment manager including reviewing the payment schemes.
a third party remuneration consultant accounting treatment for these number of investors in each fund, if the fund is closed or to determine the fair value of awards investments.
Assessing transparency open-ended and the investors consent required to change granted with reference to their We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in relation to the investment manager.
The classification of the seed capital estimation of the likelihood of the the scheme in the Remuneration report, in particular around investments represents a key audit performance conditions being met.
Test of details the impact of the performance conditions on the fair value of area as the assessment of the linkage, This is one of the key judgemental For a selection of the funds, we agreed internal inputs to the shares granted to Executive Directors.
and thus determination of control areas that our audit is focused on the aggregate economic interest determination including which leads to the classification, because of the judgements involved Our results management fees and performance fees percentages, requires judgement.
in determining the likelihood of the We had no concerns with the objectivity and competence of where applicable to the funds legal documents.
We found the resulting estimates Assessing transparency on the fair value of shares granted to Executive Directors to We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures on the be acceptable.
classification of seed capital investment.
We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of intangible assets other than goodwill.
However, the inputs and assumptions used to estimate the value of intangible assets have become less judgemental as those assets, as at 30 June 2017, are less than two Our results years away from being fully amortised.
We have thus not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, We found that the Groups judgements made in determining therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
these classifications were acceptable, and that the disclosures on the basis of classification judgements were acceptable.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2083 17 83 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern the scope of our audit We are required to report to you if: Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation 10.07 million 2016: 6.75 million, determined with reference to a to the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 5% the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 2016: 4%.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and We reported to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any corrected Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million from the date of approval of the financial statements: or 2016: 0.3 million, in addition to other identified misstatements the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 79 that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Of the Groups 31 reporting components 2016: 35 components, We have nothing to report in these respects.
we subjected 6 2016: 6 to audits for Group reporting purposes.
These audits covered 99% 2016: 99% of total Group revenue: 97% 5.
We have nothing to report on the other 2016: 97% of Group profit before taxation: and 97% 2016: 97% information in the Annual Report of total Group assets.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion The Group audit team set the component materialities, which ranged on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, from 0.4 million to 4.3 million 2016: 0.4 million to 4.1 million, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The work on the components was performed by the Group audit team.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with Group profit before tax Group materiality the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on 206.2m 2016: 167.5m 10.07m 2016: 6.75m that work we have not identified material misstatements in the Whole financial other information.
statements materiality Strategic report and Directors report 206.2m Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic 10.07m report and the Directors report: 4.3m in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial Range of materiality on 31 components 0.4m to 4.3m year is consistent with the financial statements: and 2016: 0.4m to 4.1m in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with 0.5m the Companies Act 2006.
Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016:.
0.3m Remuneration report Group materiality Group profit before tax In our opinion the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within their Longer-Term Viability Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten 99% 97% its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: 2016: 99% 2016: 97% the Principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and 99 97 the Directors explanation in the Longer-Term Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what 99 97 period they have done so and why they considered that period to Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Residual components 84 84 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2017 3.
We have nothing to report on going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Longer-Term Auditors responsibilities the scope of our audit Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We are required to report to you if: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation Corporate governance disclosures 10.07 million 2016: 6.75 million, determined with reference to a whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our to the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on We are required to report to you if: benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 5% opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 2016: 4%.
of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in we have identified material inconsistencies between the uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and We reported to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any corrected Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million from the date of approval of the financial statements: or irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 2016: 0.3 million, in addition to other identified misstatements the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 79 in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the understandable and provides the information necessary for that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Of the Groups 31 reporting components 2016: 35 components, statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement We have nothing to report in these respects.
business model and strategy: or we subjected 6 2016: 6 to audits for Group reporting purposes.
resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit These audits covered 99% 2016: 99% of total Group revenue: 97% 5.
We have nothing to report on the other resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters 2016: 97% of Group profit before taxation: and 97% 2016: 97% information in the Annual Report omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in We are required to report to you if the Corporate governance affecting the financial statements.
the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion The Group audit team set the component materialities, which ranged statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, from 0.4 million to 4.3 million 2016: 0.4 million to 4.1 million, A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across website at www.
Listing Rules for our review.
explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The work on the components was performed by 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we the Group audit team.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, owe our responsibilities consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the that work we have not identified material misstatements in the in our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them other information.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Strategic report and Directors report permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, Based solely on our work on the other information: from branches not visited by us: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic the parent Company financial statements and the part of the we have formed.
report and the Directors report: Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Thomas Brown Senior Statutory Auditor not made: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants we have not received all the information and explanations we 15 Canada Square require for our audit.
Remuneration report London E14 5GL We have nothing to report in these respects.
In our opinion the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has 6 September 2017 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 74, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair relation to: view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the Directors confirmation within their Longer-Term Viability the preparation of financial statements that are free from material Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the Principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to how they are being managed and mitigated: and liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, the Directors explanation in the Longer-Term Viability Statement or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 8 85 5
