STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 108 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Redrow plc Key audit matters REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Opinion Basis for opinion financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or In our opinion, Redrow plcs Group financial statements and We conducted our audit in accordance with International not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the company financial statements the financial statements : Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the Groups section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we risks identified by our audit.
profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis year then ended: for our opinion.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Independence adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance We reviewed managements forecasts to identify any nonValuation of inventory We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and profitable sites, assessing managements assumptions relating to See the Accounting Policies for the Directors ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial these sites and ensuring adequate provisions were included for disclosures of related accounting policies and key have been prepared in accordance with the requirements them.
We compared forecast sales prices to actual prices statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard accounting estimates.
See note 13 for the detailed of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group achieved post year-end and assessed the accuracy of as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have disclosures on the inventory provision.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
managements historical forecasts by comparing net realisable fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with values recognised in the prior year with actual sales prices The Group holds inventory in the form of land for these requirements.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the achieved in the current year.
development, work in progress and showhomes with Annual Report, which comprise: a carrying value of 2,119m, net of provisions.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that We tested managements controls over the process for estimating non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 June 2017: the expected remaining build costs, including the budgeting and The carrying value of inventory is determined by were not provided to the group or the company.
the Consolidated Income Statement and Group and reference to a number of assumptions and judgements, which are subject to levels of Company Statement of Comprehensive Income: Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, We also inspected evidence of the Boards review of divisional estimation.
These include regular updates to site the Group and Company Statements of Cash Flows: we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the managements forecast sales prices.
We did not identify any appraisals for latest sales prices and costs to Company in the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. significant deficiencies of control in this process.
the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity complete, the availability of mortgage financing for for the year then ended: customers, the availability of Government schemes For significant sites that have not yet been developed, we aiding first-time buyers, and assessments of the the accounting policies: and considered the latest stage of planning applications and assessed likelihood of obtaining planning permission on land the accuracy of managements historical estimates by comparing the notes to the financial statements.
previous estimated impairments to actual outturns achieved.
We did not identify any material differences between managements Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Changes in any of these key judgements could lead to estimations and actual results achieved.
a material change in the carrying value of inventory.
No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview We obtained and read the actuarial report that was prepared by Valuation of pension scheme deficit an independent firm of actuaries and used by the Directors in See the Accounting Policies for the Directors estimating the value of the Groupsdeficitin respect of the scheme.
15.75 million 2016: 12.5 million Group financial statements.
disclosures of related accounting policies and key accounting estimates.
See note 7 for the detailed Based on 5% of profit before tax.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the pension scheme disclosures on the pension schemedeficit.
Materiality membership data provided to managements actuary on which the 4.9 million 2016: 3.8 million Company financial statements.
pensiondeficit is calculated, comparing the data to the underlying The Group operates a defined benefit pension Based on 1% of total assets.
We noted no material exceptions from our testing.
scheme with a netdeficitof 2 million at the year end.
This deficit isderived from assets with a gross value We challenged the key assumptions used in that actuarial valuation, Audit scope of 128 million less the present value of obligations of Three financially significant companies in the Group.
being the discount rate, future RPI inflation, mortality rates and 130 million, both of which are significant in the expected returns on investments by comparing them to internallycontext of the overall balance sheet and the results of generated typical ranges used for such assumptions, taking into the Group.
account the industry in which the Group operates and other specific Valuation of inventory.
Key audit characteristics of this pension scheme.
The actuarial assumptions The valuation of this netdeficitis dependent on the matters Valuation of pension scheme deficit Group and parent.
were within the typical ranges for similar pension schemes.
application of significant judgements in the actuarial assumptions, in particular discount rates, future Retail The pension scheme assets are invested in a mixture of pooled Price Index RPI inflation and mortality rates, and on funds, individual equities, government and corporate bonds and the expected returns on investments.
We obtained independent confirmations of the existence and valuation of all of the scheme assets from the external The scope of our audit Unfavourable changes in any of the key actuarial investment managers and tested the valuations of a sample of As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial assumptions could lead to a material movementin the these assets by agreeing them to valuations obtained from statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant calculated netposition.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 110 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Redrow plc How we tailored the audit scope Reporting on other information We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover and the industry in which they operate.
the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
The Group comprises one principal trading company and a number of smaller subsidiaries and joint ventures, all of which are based in the UK.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or We performed audits of the three financially significant companies in the Group.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are opinion on the Group financial statements.
All work was performed by the Group engagement team.
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement Materiality of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 15.75 million 2016: 12.5 million.
Strategic Report and Directors Report How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the We believe that total assets is the Directors Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in primary measure used by the primary measure used by the accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 shareholders in assessing the shareholders in assessing the position performance of the group, and is a of the Holding Company, and is a In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the generally accepted auditing benchmark.
course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.6 million and 15 million.
Certain components were Corporate Governance Statement audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.8 million Statement on pages 70 to 71 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting Group audit 2016: 0.5 million and 0.2 million Company audit 2016: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below those processes and on page 100 about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 Reporting obligation Outcome In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or Statement on pages 61 to 67 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether to draw attention to.
However, administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of because not all future events or DTR.
CA06 accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification conditions can be predicted, this of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue statement is not a guarantee as to We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of the Groups and Companys ability prepared by the Company.
CA06 approval of the financial statements.
to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 112 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Redrow plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial The Directors confirmation on page 104 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic The Directors explanation on page 104 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, alternative but to do so.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material qualifications or assumptions.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors financial statements.
process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Other Code Provisions Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The statement given by the directors, on page 104, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Companies Act 2006 exception reporting group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The section of the Annual Report on page 68 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Directors Remuneration agreement with the accounting records and returns.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CA06 Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors in 1987 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 30 June 1987 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 31 years, covering the years ended 30 June 1987 to 30 June 2017.
ARIF AHMAD Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester 4 September 2017
