Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Hargreaves Lansdown plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2017 and of the groups profit and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Report and Financial Statements 2017 the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position as at 30 June 2017, the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows and the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 1.4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017.
90 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our audit approach Context Hargreaves Lansdown plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and its principal activity is the provision of regulated investor investment services to UK retail clients.
As a result, key focus areas for Hargreaves Lansdown plc are on growing assets under administration and operating within a highly regulated market.
These activities provide the context for our audit.
In the year there have been no significant transactions or business reorganisations outside the normal course of business and no significant changes in regulation that impact Hargreaves Lansdown plc.
Overview Group financial statements 13.2 million 2016: 10.9 million Based on 5% of profit before tax.
Materiality Parent company financial statements 9.3 million 2016: 9.5 million Based on 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of the complete financial information of two individually financially significant reporting units, which together represent 99.5% of the groups profit before tax.
Specific audit procedures were also performed over consolidation adjustments, balances that could be tested at a group level which included intangible assets, staff costs, cash and cash Key audit equivalents, term deposits and material movements through the consolidated statement of matters changes in equity.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
91 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition refer to the audit committee report and Asset and transaction based revenue streams note 1.1 to the financial statements To address the risk identified in the asset and transaction based Revenue recognition is a key audit matter as revenue is significantly revenue streams calculated by the underlying administration material to the group and is an important determinant of the groups system, we independently re-calculated the revenue recognised.
This covered management fees, platform fees and an element of stockbroking commission.
Our calculations were based on data Further, there are incentive schemes in place for Directors and staff extracted from the administration system.
which are in part based on the groups revenue performance.
Where there are incentives based on performance, there is an inherent risk In order to rely on the data extracted, we: of fraud in revenue recognition as there is an incentive to overstate Reconciled transactional data provided from opening positions revenue.
Revenue may also be misstated due to errors in system through to closing positions of individual securities held: and calculations or manual processes, for example, arising from incorrect securities prices or levels of assets held used in these Tested a sample of transactions to supporting documentation calculations and processes.
such as client instructions and a sample of security positions to stock reconciliations and external sources such as fund manager We assessed each revenue stream for the two in-scope reporting statements.
units and determined that there is a significant risk based on the opportunity for errors to occur in each of these revenue streams.
This testing provided sufficient evidence for us to determine the Our assessment of the risks for each revenue type which we needed data extracted was reliable for the purposes of performing the to obtain evidence over is as follows: recalculations.
We tested the inputs of our recalculations by agreeing standing data, such as fee structures, commission rates and security prices to supporting evidence on a sample basis.
No exceptions were noted from testing the standing data.
On the basis of this testing, we determined it was appropriate for us Type of revenue Description, including fraud risk factors to use the standing data to perform our independent recalculation Asset and These revenue streams are either calculated of each of the revenue streams.
transaction based based on the value of assets held or based revenue streams on activities undertaken by the client of the We compared our independent recalculations to the amount calculated by the group, such as stockbroking.
reported and noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and underlying required no further investigation.
The value of securities and all client administration activities is held in the underlying We tested the remaining asset and transaction based revenue system administration system which supports the within the two in-scope reporting units which included other income Management fees on Vantage and PMS platforms.
The rates are and an element of stockbroking commission on a sample basis, SIPPs and ISAs derived from standard rate tables.
agreeing each revenue item sampled back to supporting Unauthorised changes to, or errors in these documentation.
No significant exceptions were noted.
Platform fees inputs could lead to a misstatement of Stockbroking revenue.
commission Other income 92 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Key audit matter continued How our audit addressed the key audit matter continued Type of revenue Description, including fraud risk factors Revenue streams calculated by management or a third party Annual management charges AMCs relating to the Hargreaves Revenue streams The AMCs are manually calculated by an Lansdown Multi-Manager funds and Select funds calculated by independent third party, based on the net We agreed revenue samples through to cash received evidenced by management or a asset value of the funds and the published bank statements, recalculated the management fees, and tested a third party AMC rate.
control operating at the firm which independently verifies the funds Annual management Renewal commission is calculated by net asset values provided by the independent third party.
We noted charges AMCs independent third parties.
differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no further relating to the investigation.
Gross interest on client money is calculated Hargreaves by management based on the deposit Lansdown MultiInterest income on client money balance and the rate agreed with the bank.
Manager funds and On a sample basis, we manually recalculated the gross interest Select funds As a result, a material misstatement of earned on client money based on records maintained by revenue could arise from fraudulently management and tested these records by agreeing a sample of Renewal commission manipulating manual calculations or deposits and interest rates to documentation received from the Interest income on spreadsheets errors.
No exceptions were noted as part of our testing.
client money Renewal commission The above key audit matter applies only to On a sample basis, we agreed renewal commission to third party the group.
The parent company does not statements and bank statements.
No exceptions were noted as part report revenue.
All revenue streams As part of our testing described above, we performed procedures to determine that revenue was recognised in the correct period.
In addition, we tested a sample of journals posted to the general ledger based on our assessment of fraud risk.
We understood the nature of these journals and agreed the appropriateness of the journal to supporting documentation.
No exceptions were noted that were indicative of fraud or error.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
93 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The group is structured as one segment, comprising 20 separate reporting units.
There were 7 trading subsidiaries during the year, two of which we considered to be financially significant reporting units and on which we performed an audit of their complete financial information.
Together these two financially significant reporting units represent 99.5% of the groups profit before tax.
An entity was considered to be financially significant if it contributed more than 5% of consolidated profit before tax.
Specific audit procedures were also performed over consolidation adjustments, balances that could be tested at a group level which included intangible assets, staff costs, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and material movements through the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
All of the audit work was performed by the group engagement team in the UK as all books and records were available at one location.
The parent company is a holding company with investments in subsidiaries in the Hargreaves Lansdown plc group.
It does not trade outside of the group.
The only material income it received during the year was dividend income received from subsidiaries.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 13.2 million 2016: 10.9 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark As the group is profit orientated, we have As the parent company is profit orientated, we applied calculated materiality with reference to profit have calculated materiality with reference to profit before tax.
before tax For each reporting unit in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across reporting units was between 5.1 million and 11.9 million.
Certain reporting units were audited to a statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 660,000 group audit 2016: 540,000 and 465,000 parent company audit 2016: 475,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether attention to.
However, because not all future the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of events or conditions can be predicted, this accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification statement is not a guarantee as to the groups of any material uncertainties to the groups and the parent companys ability to andparent companys ability to continue as continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date agoing concern.
of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
94 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 24 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 84 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 95 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc continued Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 35, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 48 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
96 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 October 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the years ended 30 June 2014 to 30 June 2017.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 14 August 2017 97 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
