Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc The financial reporting framework that Opinion Conclusions relating to has been applied in the preparation principal risks, going concern In our opinion: of the group financial statements and viability statement Renishaw plcs group financial is applicable law and International We have nothing to report in respect of statements and parent company Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the following information in the annual financial statements the financial as adopted by the European Union.
report, in relation to which the ISAs statements give a true and fair view The financial reporting framework that UK require us to report to you whether of the state of the Groups and of has been applied in the preparation we have anything material to add or theparent companys affairs as at of the parent company financial draw attention to: 30th June 2017 and of the Groups statements is applicable law and profit for the year then ended: United Kingdom Accounting Standards the disclosures in the annual report, United Kingdom Generally Accepted the group financial statements set out on pages 52 to 53, that Accounting Practice, including FRS have been properly prepared in describe the principal risks and 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted explain how they are being managed by the European Union: or mitigated: Basis for opinion the parent company financial the directors confirmation, set out We conducted our audit in accordance statements have been properly on page 52, in the Annual report with International Standards on prepared in accordance with United that they have carried out a robust Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable Kingdom Generally Accepted assessment of the principal risks law.
Our responsibilities under those Accounting Practice, including facing the entity, including those standards are further described in the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure that would threaten its business Auditors responsibilities for the audit of Framework: and model, future performance, solvency the financial statements section of our or liquidity: the financial statements have been report below.
We are independent of prepared in accordance with the the directors statement, set the Group and Company in accordance requirements of the Companies Act out on page 75, in the financial with the ethical requirements that are 2006, and, as regards the group statements about whether they relevant to our audit of the financial financial statements, Article 4 of the considered it appropriate to statements in the UK, including the IAS Regulation.
adopt the going concern basis of FRCs Ethical Standard as applied accounting in preparing them, and We have audited the financial to listed public interest entities, and their identification of any material statements of Renishaw plc we have fulfilled our other ethical uncertainties to the entitys ability to which comprise: responsibilities in accordance with continue to do so over a period of at these requirements.
least twelve months from the date of We believe that the audit evidence approval of the financial statements: we have obtained is sufficient and whether the directors statement appropriate to provide a basis for in relation to going concern our opinion.
required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent Group Parent company with our knowledge obtained in the Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 30th June 2017 audit: or 30th June 2017 the directors explanation, set out Consolidated income statement for the Statement of changes in equity for on pages 75 to 76, in the Annual year then ended the year then ended report as to how they have assessed Consolidated statement of Related notes C. 26 to C. 42 to the the prospects of the entity, over comprehensive income and expense financial statements including a what period they have done so and for the year then ended summary of significant accounting why they consider that period to be policies appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable Consolidated statement of changes in expectation that the entity will be equity for the year then ended able to continue in operation and Consolidated cash flow statement for meet its liabilities as they fall due the year then ended over the period of their assessment, Related notes 1 to 25 to the financial including any related disclosures statements, including a summary of drawing attention to any necessary significant accounting policies qualifications or assumptions.
98 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition as a result of inappropriate cut off via manipulation of timing of revenue recognition.
Susceptibility to management override through the posting of manual topside adjustments during the consolidation process.
The valuation of the Groups forward currency derivatives and assessment of hedging activities.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further six components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 94% of Profit before tax, 92% of Revenue and 90% of Total Assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 4.7m which represents 4.6% of Group Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Based on our procedures we are Revenue recognition.
We identified and assessed the design of key satisfied that the revenue cut-off controls to validate that revenue recognition Revenue recognition as a result of was appropriate.
was appropriate and applied in accordance inappropriate cut off via manipulation with the Groups accounting policies.
of timing of revenue recognition, continuing revenue of 536.8m 2016: We performed cut off procedures by testing 427.2m and discontinued revenue of items from revenue recognised during the 7.2m 2016: 7.0m.
year and subsequent to year end to gain assurance over the completeness and As described in note 1 of the existence of deferred revenue balances at consolidated financial statements, year end.
where certain products require installation, part of the revenue may We tested credit notes issued after the be deferred until the installation is balance sheet date to assess appropriate complete.
Furthermore, where goods revenue recognition in the period.
and services are sold as a bundle, We looked for and tested journal entries thefair value of services is deferred and within normal business processes relating to recognised over the period to which revenue transactions close to the year end the service relates with the remaining to ensure they were valid, by agreeing the revenue recognised on despatch.
No journals to originating documentation.
revenue should be recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding We performed testing on revenue recorded recovery of the consideration due, through journal entries outside of normal or the possible return of goods.
This business processes to establish whether a results in the potential for management service had been provided in the financial manipulation of the timing of revenue year to support the revenue recognised.
We performed other substantive, Refer also to page 80 Audit Committee transactional testing and analytical report.
procedures to validate that revenue transactions had been appropriately recorded in the Consolidated income statement at the right time.
The above work was performed at all full scope and specific scope locations with third party revenue streams.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
99 Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee We performed walkthroughs of the We found no evidence of Management override consolidation process at various month ends management override in the Susceptibility to management override throughout the year, including the interim and post-close consolidation during the post-close consolidation year end to assess the design effectiveness of adjustments.
We consider that management is in a For all full and specific scope locations we position to perpetrate fraud through the independently verified the results of the manipulation of top-side journal entries consolidated entities by agreeing the results during the consolidation process.
included in the consolidation directly to the We focused on this area due to the results audited by the component audit teams.
manual nature of the consolidation For a sample of the remaining entities we process and the non-routine verified the results of the consolidated entities judgemental nature of some of the to the underlying source data.
We selected all consolidation journals exceeding 15% performance materiality and obtained evidence to verify the validity and accuracy of the journals being posted.
The valuation of the Groups We obtained direct external confirmation of As at 30th June 2016 certain forward currency derivatives and the valuation for each of the forward currency forward foreign currency open assessment of hedging activities contracts held and agreed these to the fair contracts were treated as values of the derivatives recorded by the qualifying for hedge accounting Refer to the Audit Committee report Group.
when they did not meet the hedge page 80 to 81 and notes 1, 13 and effectiveness criteria.
This has We ensured that the requirements of IAS 25 of the Consolidated Financial resulted in a prior year restatement, 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Statements.
being a 25.8m reduction to Measurement IAS 39 were met by: profit excluding tax impact As described in note 1 of the ensuring the appropriateness of the and a 25.8m increase in Other consolidated financial statements methodology used by management Comprehensive Income excluding the Group uses derivative financial to hedge account.
We reviewed the tax impact.
We have confirmed instruments to manage risks arising from terms and conditions of all the different that the disclosures in note 25 changes in foreign currency exchange categories of forward currency contracts were in accordance with the rates relating to forecast sales.
open at the year end and determined requirements of IAS 8, Accounting The Group designates certain derivatives whether hedge accounting was Policies, Changes in Accounting as hedges of a particular risk associated permissible under IAS 39: Estimates and Errors.
with a recognised asset or liability or We confirmed that the valuation a highly probable forecast transaction challenging managements assessment of the Groups forward currency cash flow hedge.
Hedge accounting of whether hedge accounting was derivatives, the assessment of is discontinued when the hedging permissible under IAS 39 for forward hedging activities for the year instrument expires or is sold, terminated currency contracts open at the previous ended 30th June 2017 and the or exercised, or no longer qualifies for year end: disclosures within notes 13 and hedge accounting.
using EY specialists to test a sample of 25 were in accordance with the valuations to ensure that the fair values of Changes in the fair value of foreign requirements of IAS 39, Financial the forward currency derivatives had been currency derivatives which are ineffective Instruments: Recognition and reasonably calculated: or do not meet the criteria for hedge Measurement.
accounting in IAS 39 are recognised in using EY specialists to evaluate the Consolidated income statement.
managements documentation and assessment of hedge effectiveness: and We focused on this area due to the complexity of some of the derivatives ensuring that the financial statement entered into, and the magnitude of the disclosures were in accordance with carrying value of the derivative assets accounting standards.
and liabilities on the balance sheet, being 3.5m and 56.7m respectively 2016: 0.9m and 70.6m.
100 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee We challenged managements assumptions Based on the results of our work, Carrying value of goodwill used in its impairment models for assessing we agree with managements Refer to the Audit Committee report the recoverability of the carrying value of conclusion that an impairment of page 80 and 81 : and notes 1 and 10 of goodwill.
We focused on the appropriateness goodwill at a CGU level is required the Consolidated Financial Statements.
of CGU identification, methodology applied to in the current year, amounting estimate recoverable values, discount rates to 8.4m, disclosed within We focused on this area due the and forecast cash flows.
size ofthe goodwill balance of We confirmed that the disclosures 13.3m 2016: 21.3m and because we validated that the changes in CGUs within note 10 were in accordance i significant levels of goodwill have identified were consistent with changes in with the requirements of IAS 36, arisen from Renishaw plc acquisitions the business and reflect the lowest level at Impairment of Assets.
in recent years, ii managements which management monitors goodwill in assessment of value in use of the accordance with the requirements of IAS Groups cash-generating units CGUs 36, Impairment of Assets IAS 36 : involves judgement about the future we tested the methodology applied results of the business and discount in thevalue in use calculation as rates applied to future cash flow comparedto the requirements of IAS forecasts, iii adverse changes in 36 and the mathematical accuracy of assumptions, particularly relating to managements model: forecast cash flows and discount rates, we inspected the cash flow forecasts could reduce the recoverable amount used in the valuation to ensure that they below the carrying amount, and give were consistent with information approved rise to an impairment charge and iv a by the Board and reviewed the historical number of these acquisitions are still in accuracy of managements forecasts by the research and development stage comparing to actual performance: which makes forecasting inherently more judgemental.
we challenged management on its cash flow forecasts and the growth rates for the year ended 30th June 2018 and beyond by considering evidence available to support these assumptions, their consistency with findings from other areas of our audit and by performing sensitivity analyses: the discount rates and long term growth rates applied within the model were assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison to economic and industry forecasts, whereappropriate: for certain CGUs with lower headroom, weperformed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key assumptions in the model with downside scenarios to understand the parameters that, should they arise, could lead to a different conclusion in respect of the carrying value of goodwill: and we considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in note 10 of the Group financial statements.
The entire goodwill balance was subject to fullscope audit procedures by the primary audit team.
In the prior year the risks of material misstatement were identified as Carrying Value of Inventory and Carrying Value of Goodwill.
101 Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued The reporting components where An overview of the scope of Profit before tax we performed audit procedures our audit 93% full accounted for 94% 2016: 83% of scope Tailoring the scope components the Groups Profit before tax, 92% Our assessment of audit risk, our 2016: 90% of the Groups Revenue 1% Specific evaluation of materiality and our scope and 90% 2016: 78% of the Groups components allocation of performance materiality Total Assets.
determine our audit scope for each 6% Other For the current year, the seven full procedures entity within the Group.
Taken together, scope components contributed this enables us to form an opinion on 93% 2016: 83% of the Groups the consolidated financial statements.
The full scope We take into account size, risk profile, Profit before tax coverage of 93% the organisation of the group and Revenue represents six full scope components effectiveness of group-wide controls, 87% full having a positive contribution of 98% scope changes in the business environment components offset by one full scope component and other factors such as recent having a negative contribution of 5%.
5% Specific Internal audit results when assessing scope The full scope entities contributed 87% the level of work to be performed at components 2016: 83% of the Groups Revenue each entity.
and 81% 2016: 78% of the Groups 8% Other procedures In assessing the risk of material Total Assets.
misstatement to the Group financial The specific scope components statements, and to ensure we had contributed 1% 2016: 0% of adequate quantitative coverage of the Groups Profit before tax, 5% significant accounts in the financial Total assets 2016:0% of the Groups Revenue statements, of the 47 reporting 81% full and 9% 2016: 0% of the Groups scope components of the Group, we selected components Total Assets.
The audit scope of these 13 components covering entities within components may not have included 9% Specific China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, scope testing of all significant accounts of the Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Spain, components component but will have contributed to South Korea, UK and USA, which the coverage of accounts significant to 10% Other represent the principal business units procedures the consolidated Group.
Of the remaining 34 components that Of the 13 components selected, we together represent 6% of the Groups performed an audit of the complete Changes from the prior year Profit before tax, none are individually financial information of seven greater than 5% of the Groups Profit We have increased the scope of components full scope components before tax.
For these components, we components in China, India, Italy, which were selected based on their performed other procedures, including Mexico, South Korea and Spain to size or risk characteristics.
For the analytical review to respond to any specific scope.
remaining six components specific potential risks of material misstatement scope components, we performed Involvement with component to the Group financial statements.
audit procedures on specific accounts teams within that component that we The following charts illustrate the In establishing our overall approach considered had the potential for the coverage obtained from the work to the Group audit, we determined greatest impact on the significant performed by our audit.
the type of work that needed to be accounts in the financial statements undertaken at each of the components either because of the size of these by us, as the primary audit engagement accounts or their risk profile.
team, primary audit team, or by For the remaining components, component auditors from other EY audit procedures were undertaken global network firms operating under to respond to any potential risks of our instruction.
Of the seven full scope material misstatement to the Group components, all audit procedures were financial statements.
performed on two of these directly by the primary audit team, and of the six specific scope components, all audit procedures were performed on four of these directly by the primary audit team.
The primary audit team performed all the audit procedures on two full scope components, one located in the UK and one located 102 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information in the USA, and four specific scope Performance materiality Other information components located in Italy, Spain, The application of materiality at the The other information comprises the Mexico and China respectively.
For the individual account or balance level.
information included in the Annual remaining five full scope components It is set at an amount to reduce to an report set out on pages 1 to 96, and two specific scope components, appropriately low level the probability including the Strategic Report, set out where the work was performed by that the aggregate of uncorrected on pages 1 to 65, Governance, set out component auditors, we determined and undetected misstatements on pages 66 to 96, and Shareholder the appropriate level of involvement to exceeds materiality.
information, set out on pages 148 to enable us to determine that sufficient 150, other than the financial statements On the basis of our risk assessments, audit evidence had been obtained as a and our auditors report thereon.
together with our assessment of the basis for our opinion on the Group as The directors are responsible for the Groups overall control environment, a whole.
our judgement was that performance At the start of the audit a meeting was materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of Our opinion on the financial statements held with representatives from all full our planning materiality, namely 3.5m does not cover the other information scope component teams.
We have set performance and, accordingly, except to the extent during the current years audit cycle, materiality at this percentage due to otherwise explicitly stated in this visits were undertaken by the Senior the past history of few misstatements report, we do not express any form of Statutory Auditor, or his designate, to indicating a lower risk of misstatement assurance conclusion thereon.
the component teams in Germany, in the financial statements.
In connection with our audit of the India, Ireland and the USA.
These visits Audit work at component locations financial statements, our responsibility involved discussing the audit approach for the purpose of obtaining is to read the other information and, in with the component team, discussing audit coverage over significant doing so, consider whether the other key risk areas, meeting with local financial statement accounts is information is materially inconsistent management, and attending planning undertaken based on a percentage with the financial statements or our meetings.
The primary audit team of total performance materiality.
knowledge obtained in the audit or interacted regularly with the component The performance materiality set otherwise appears to be materially teams during all stages of the audit, for each component is based on misstated.
If we identify such material reviewed key working papers, the relative scale and risk of the inconsistencies or apparent material attended all closing meetings via component to the Group as a whole misstatements, we are required video conferencing facilities and were and our assessment of the risk of to determine whether there is a responsible for the scope and direction misstatement at that component.
In the material misstatement in the financial of the audit process.
This, together with current year, the range of performance statements or a material misstatement the additional procedures performed materiality allocated to components of the other information.
If, based at Group level, gave us appropriate was 0.5m to 2.3m 2016: 2m.
on the work we have performed, evidence for our opinion on the Group we conclude that there is a material financial statements.
Reporting threshold misstatement of the other information, An amount below which identified Our application of materiality we are required to report that misstatements are considered as being We apply the concept of materiality fact.
We have nothing to report in clearly trivial.
in planning and performing the audit, this regard.
in evaluating the effect of identified We agreed with the Audit Committee In this context, we also have nothing to misstatements on the audit and in that we would report to them all report in regard to our responsibility to forming our audit opinion.
uncorrected audit differences in excess specifically address the following items of 0.235m 2016: 0.2m, which is set in the other information and to report Materiality at 5% of planning materiality, as well as as uncorrected material misstatements The magnitude of an omission or differences below that threshold that, of the other information where we misstatement that, individually or in in our view, warranted reporting on conclude that those items meet the the aggregate, could reasonably be qualitative grounds.
following conditions: expected to influence the economic We evaluate any uncorrected decisions of the users of the financial Fair, balanced and misstatements against both the statements.
Materiality provides a basis understandable set out on quantitative measures of materiality for determining the nature and extent page 75 the statement given by discussed above and in light of other ofour audit procedures.
the directors that they consider relevant qualitative considerations in the Annual report and financial We determined materiality for forming our opinion.
statements taken as a whole is fair, the Group to be 4.7 million balanced and understandable and 2016: 4 million, which is 4.6% provides the information necessary 2016: 5 % of Group Profit before for shareholders to assess the tax for continuing and discontinued groups performance, business operations.
We believe that Group model and strategy, is materially Profit before tax for continuing and inconsistent with our knowledge discontinued operations provides us obtained in the audit: or with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark for listed entities.
103 Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued Audit Committee reporting Matters on which we are Auditors responsibilities set out on pages 79 to 82 the required to report by exception for the audit of the section describing the work of financial statements In the light of the knowledge and the Audit Committee does not understanding of the Group and the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable appropriately address matters parent company and its environment assurance about whether the financial communicated by us to the audit obtained in the course of the audit, statements as a whole are free from committee: or we have not identified material material misstatement, whether due to Directors statement of misstatements in the Strategic report or fraud or error, and to issue an auditors compliance with the UK the Directors report.
report that includes our opinion.
Corporate Governance Code Reasonable assurance is a high level We have nothing to report in respect set out on page 77 the parts of of assurance, but is not a guarantee of the following matters in relation the directors statement required that an audit conducted in accordance to which the Companies Act 2006 under the Listing Rules relating to with ISAs UK will always detect a requires us to report to you if, in the companys compliance with the material misstatement when it exists.
our opinion: UK Corporate Governance Code Misstatements can arise from fraud containing provisions specified for adequate accounting records or error and are considered material review by the auditor in accordance have not been kept by the parent if, individually or in the aggregate, with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do company, or returns adequate for they could reasonably be expected not properly disclose a departure our audit have not been received to influence the economic decisions from a relevant provision of the UK from branches not visited by us: or of users taken on the basis of these Corporate Governance Code.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Opinions on other matters This report is made solely to the Directors remuneration report to be Companys members, as a body, in prescribed by the Companies audited are not in agreement with accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Act 2006 the accounting records and returns: of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit In our opinion, the part of the Directors or work has been undertaken so that we remuneration report to be audited has might state to the Companys members certain disclosures of directors been properly prepared in accordance those matters we are required to state remuneration specified by law are with the Companies Act 2006. to them in an auditors report and for not made: or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent In our opinion, based on the work we have not received all the permitted by law, we do not accept or undertaken in the course of the audit: information and explanations we assume responsibility to anyone other the information given in the require for our audit.
than the company and the Companys Strategic report and the Directors members as a body, for our audit work, report for the financial year for Responsibilities of directors for this report, or for the opinions we which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the Directors have formed.
prepared is consistent with the responsibilities statement set out on financial statements: and Explanation of the extent page 97, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial to which our audit can the Strategic report and the statements and for being satisfied that detect fraud Directors report have been they give a true and fair view, and for prepared in accordance with The objectives of our audit, in respect such internal control as the directors applicable legal requirements.
to fraud, are: to identify and assess determine is necessary to enable the the risks of material misstatement of preparation of financial statements that the financial statements due to fraud: are free from material misstatement, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit whether due to fraud or error.
evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due In preparing the financial statements, to fraud, through designing and the directors are responsible for implementing appropriate responses: assessing the Group and Companys and to respond appropriately to fraud ability to continue as a going concern, or suspected fraud identified during disclosing, as applicable, matters the audit.
However, the primary related to going concern and using responsibility for the prevention and the going concern basis of accounting detection of fraud rests with both those unless management either intends to charged with governance of the entity liquidate the Group or the Company or and management.
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
104 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our approach was as follows: Based on this understanding we Notes: designed our audit procedures to 1.
The maintenance and integrity of We obtained an understanding identify non-compliance with such the Renishaw plc website is the of the legal and regulatory laws and regulations identified in the responsibility of the directors: the frameworks that are applicable to paragraphs above.
Our procedures work carried out by the auditors the Group and determined that involved: journal entry testing, with does not involve consideration of the most significant frameworks a focus on manual consolidation these matters and, accordingly, the which are directly relevant to journals and journals indicating auditors accept no responsibility specific assertions in the financial large or unusual transactions for any changes that may have statements are those that relate to based on our understanding of the occurred to the financial statements the reporting framework IFRS, FRS business: inquiries of legal counsel, since they were initially presented 101 and the Companies Act 2006 executive management, internal on the website.
and UK Corporate Governance audit, divisional heads and all full Code and the relevant tax 2.
Legislation in the UK governing the and specific component finance compliance regulations in the UK preparation and dissemination of managers: and focused testing, as and overseas jurisdictions in which financial statements may differ from referred to in the Key Audit Matters the Group operates as referred to in legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Tailoring the Scope paragraph above.
In addition, we concluded A further description of our that there are certain significant responsibilities for the audit of the laws and regulations which may financial statements is located on have an effect on the determination the Financial Reporting Councils of the amounts and disclosures website at https: www.
uk in the financial statements being .
This description the Listing Rules of the UK Listing forms part of our auditors report.
Authority, the Bribery Act 2010, Other matters we are required Occupational Health and Safety to address Regulations, the Data Protection Act 1998, and export controls.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were We understood how the Group appointed as auditors by the Board complies with these legal and of Directors of Renishaw plc and regulatory frameworks through signed an engagement letter on our assessment of the Groups 11th November 2016.
We were approach to governance, appointed by the Company at the demonstrated by the Boards AGM on 13th October 2016 to approval of the Groups governance audit the financial statements for framework and the Boards review the year ending 30th June 2017 of the Groups risk management and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted As a result of the Boards review engagement including previous of the Groups risk management renewals and reappointments is and internal control framework one year, covering the year ending an executive risk committee was 30th June 2017. established which in turn formed working groups to focus on antiThe non-audit services prohibited bribery, information and cyber by the FRCs Ethical Standard security, and data protection.
were not provided to the Group The Groups anti-corruption or the Company and we remain culture is embedded in Renishaws independent of the Group and the Group Business Code and AntiCompany in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent We assessed the susceptibility of with the additional report to the the Groups financial statements Audit Committee.
to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by: considering the programs and controls that the Group has established to address risks Paul Mapleston identified by the entity, or that Senior statutory auditor otherwise prevent, deter and detect for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, fraud: how senior management Statutory Auditor monitor those programs and controls, and evaluating conditions Bristol in the context of incentive pressure 27th July 2017 to commit fraud, considering the opportunity to commit fraud and the potential rationalisation of the fraudulent act.
