Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 91 Other than those disclosed in note 3b of the financial statements, we Independent auditors have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. report to the members Our audit approach Overview of Diageo plc Materiality Group financial statements: 179 million 2016: 140 million, based Report on the financial statements on 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items as defined Our opinion in note 4 to the group financial statements.
In our opinion: Company financial statements: 97 million 2016: 96 million, Diageo plcs group financial statements and company financial based on 0.5% of net assets.
For the purposes of the group audit, statements the financial statements give a true and fair view we applied a lower materiality of 20 million 2016: 15 million to of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at company balances and transactions, other than those which were 30 June 2017 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the eliminated on consolidation in the group financial statements.
year then ended: Audit scope The group financial statements have been properly prepared in We conducted full scope audit work in nine countries in which the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: group has significant operations.
Our work also covered the five The company financial statements have been properly prepared group shared service centres.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, transactions in four countries, and obtained reporting over the comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and financial information of Mot Hennessy, the groups principal applicable law : and associate, from its auditor.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with During the year, the group engagement team visited six countries the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the where full scope audits were performed, four shared service group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
centres and four of the countries where audits of specific balances and transactions took place.
We also visited the Mot Hennessy We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual audit team.
Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company balance Areas of focus sheets as at 30 June 2017: the consolidated income statement and Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets group.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then Taxation matters group.
ended: the consolidated and company statements of changes in Presentation of exceptional items group.
equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the group and Provisions and contingent liabilities group and company.
company financial statements, which include a description of the Post-employment benefit obligations group.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the The scope of our audit Audit Committee.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made As explained in note 1 of the group financial statements, the group, subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all Standards Board IASB.
of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material Basis for opinion misstatement due to fraud.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Key audit matters on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We statements of the current period and include the most significant believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest Independence effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in We remained independent of the group in accordance with the the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard as procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
92 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets group We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 10 of the groups CGUs and tested the operation of the groups controls over the impairment assessment process, which we found to be Intangible assets The group has goodwill of 2,723 million, indefinite-lived satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
brand intangibles of 8,229 million and other intangible assets of Our audit procedures included challenging management on the 1,614 million as at 30 June 2017, contained within 21 cash appropriateness of the impairment models and reasonableness of the assumptions used, focusing in particular on USL goodwill, certain USL generating units CGUs.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be tested brands and the Meta brand, through performing the following: for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The determination of Benchmarking Diageos key market-related assumptions in recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value the models, including discount rates, long term growth rates less costs to dispose, requires judgement on the part of and foreign exchange rates, against external data, using our management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant valuation expertise: CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of Assessing the reliability of cash flow forecasts through a review of variables and market conditions such as future price and volume actual past performance and comparison to previous forecasts: growth rates, the timing of future operating expenditure, and the Testing the mathematical accuracy and performing sensitivity most appropriate discount and long term growth rates.
analyses of the models: Management has determined that the CGUs containing the USL Understanding the commercial prospects of the assets, and where goodwill and the Meta brand are sensitive to reasonably possible possible comparison of assumptions with external data sources: changes in the assumptions used, which could result in the calculated recoverable amount being lower than the carrying value For USL goodwill and USL brands, assessing the reasonableness of the CGU.
Additional sensitivity disclosures have been included in of forecasts by challenging assumptions in respect of growth the group financial statements in respect of these CGUs.
strategies in the Indian market: and For USL goodwill and the USL brands, assessing the intermediary period in the context of market conditions and forecast consumption per capita.
We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the related disclosures in note 10 of the group financial statements, including the sensitivities provided in respect of USL goodwill and the Meta brand, and considered them to be reasonable.
Based on our procedures, we noted no material exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within reasonable ranges.
Taxation matters group We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 7 - Taxation, and note 18 of identifying uncertain tax positions, which we found to be Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
We also evaluated the The group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is related accounting policy for provisioning for tax exposures and subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of found it to be appropriate.
tax matters during the normal course of business, including We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the transfer pricing, direct and indirect taxes, and transaction related tax current status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor matters.
As at 30 June 2017, the group has current taxes payable of developments in ongoing disputes.
We read recent rulings and 294 million, deferred tax assets of 134 million and deferred tax correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice liabilities of 2,112 million.
received by the group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the group tax provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the the latest developments.
probable amount of the liability.
We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular We focused on the judgements made by management in on cases where there had been significant developments with tax assessing the quantification and likelihood of potentially material authorities, noting no significant deviations from our expectations.
exposures and therefore the level of provision required.
In particular This included review of the legal advice received, supporting we focused on the impact of changes in local tax regulations and relevant decisions where no provision is recorded.
ongoing inspections by local tax authorities, which could materially We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in impact the amounts recorded in the group financial statements.
notes 7 and 18 of the group financial statements, and considered This included evaluating the recent assessment under the Diverted them to be reasonable.
Profits Tax regime issued by HM Revenue & Customs in the UK and the assessments issued by the tax authorities in France.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 93 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Presentation of exceptional items group We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 4 of exceptional items, which we found to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
Exceptional items In the past few years the group has reported significant levels We considered the judgements within managements of exceptional items separately within the consolidated income accounting papers for the one-off transactions, and obtained statement which are excluded from managements reporting of corroborative evidence for the items presented as exceptional items.
We considered these to be reasonable.
the underlying results of the group.
The nature of these exceptional items is explained within the The audit procedures pertaining to the claims in India and Turkey group accounting policy and includes gains or losses arising on are summarised under the Provisions and contingent liabilities acquisitions or disposals, impairment charges or reversals, and costs section below.
resulting from non-recurring legal or regulatory matters.
We challenged managements rationale for the designation of This year the group has reported 42 million of net operating certain items as exceptional and assessed such items against the exceptional costs and 20 million of non-operating exceptional groups accounting policy considering the nature and value of income before tax, which relate primarily to: the items.
The release of liabilities recorded in the year ended 30 June 2016 We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the in respect of disengagement agreements relating to United disclosures in note 4 and other related notes to the group financial Spirits Limited 23 million : statements, and checked that these reflected the output of managements accounting papers, noting no significant deviations A charge in respect of a customer claim in India 32 million : from our expectations.
A charge in respect of a claim received from the competition We also considered whether there were items that were recorded authorities in Turkey 33 million : and within underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in A gain in respect of the finalisation of the disposal of the groups nature and should have been reported within exceptional items.
wine interests in the US and UK Percy Fox 20 million.
No such material items were identified.
Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified by management as exceptional met the definition of the groups accounting policy i. e. are exceptional in nature and value and have been treated consistently, as the identification of such items requires judgement by management.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure the comparability of year on year reporting.
Provisions and contingent liabilities group and company We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 14 d Working capital of litigation and regulatory matters, which we found to be provisions and note 18 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group faces a number of threatened and actual legal Our procedures included the following: and regulatory cases.
There is a high level of judgement required Where relevant, reading external legal advice obtained by in estimating the level of provisioning and or the level of management: disclosures required.
Discussing open matters and developments with the group and regional general counsel: Meeting with regional and local management and reading relevant correspondence: Assessing and challenging managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and Circularising relevant third party legal representatives, together with follow up discussions, where appropriate, on certain cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, whilst noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal and regulatory matters, we determined that the level of provisioning at 30 June 2017 is appropriate.
We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 14 d and 18 of the group financial statements, and consider them to be reasonable.
94 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Post-employment benefit obligations group We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 13 Postof post-employment benefit obligations, which we found to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
employment benefits The group has approximately 40 defined benefit post We used our actuarial specialists to assess whether the employment plans.
The total present value of obligations is 9,716 assumptions used in calculating the liabilities for the United million at 30 June 2017, which is significant in the context of the Kingdom, Ireland and North America pension plans were reasonable, by performing the following: overall balance sheet of the group.
The groups most significant plans are in the UK, Ireland and North America.
Assessing whether salary increases and mortality rate assumptions The valuation of pension plan liabilities requires judgement in were consistent with the specifics of each plan and, where determining appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks: mortality rates, discount rates, inflation levels and the impact of Verifying that the discount and inflation rates used were consistent any changes in individual pension plans.
Movements in these with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with other assumptions can have a material impact on the determination of the companies recent external reporting: and liability.
Management uses external actuaries to assist in determining Reviewing the calculations prepared by external actuaries to assess these assumptions.
the consistency of the assumptions used.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within reasonable ranges.
How we tailored the audit scope Certain specific audit procedures over central corporate functions We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed and areas of significant judgement, including goodwill and intangible assets, taxation, and material provisions and contingent liabilities, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group were performed at the groups head office.
We also performed and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the work centrally on systems and IT general controls, consolidation industry in which the group operates.
journals and the one-off transactions undertaken by the group during the year.
The group operates as 21 geographically based markets across five regions, together with the supply and corporate functions.
These Together, the central and component locations at which work was markets report through a significant number of individual reporting performed by the group engagement team and component auditors components, which are supported by the groups five principal accounted for 72% of consolidated net sales, 84% of the consolidated total assets, and 64% of the consolidated profit before tax and shared service centres in Hungary, Kenya, Colombia, India and the Philippines.
The outputs from these shared service centres are exceptional items, with work performed by the group engagement included in the financial information of the reporting components team over exceptional items contributing a further 1% coverage over they service, and therefore are not separate reporting components.
the consolidated profit before tax total of 65%.
At the group level, In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we we also carried out analytical and other procedures on the reporting determined the type of work that needed to be performed at components not covered by the procedures described above.
reporting components by us, as the group engagement team, Where the work was performed by component auditors, or component auditors from either other PwC network firms or including by our shared service centre auditors, we determined the non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
This included level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those consideration of the procedures required to be performed by our locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit audit teams at the groups shared service centres to support our evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group component auditors.
We issued formal, written We identified two reporting components which, in our view, instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their performed by each of them and maintained regular communication financial significance to the group.
Those reporting components throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending were North America and USL India.
A further 12 reporting component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, components had an audit of their complete financial information, as well as reviewing and assessing matters reported.
either due to their size or their risk characteristics, which included six Senior members of the group engagement team also visited operating and three treasury reporting components.
We audited eleven component locations in six countries in scope for an audit of specific balances and transactions at a further six reporting their complete financial information, as well as four of the shared components, obtaining reporting over the financial information of centre locations and six of the component locations in four Mot Hennessy, the groups principal associate, from its auditor, countries where audits of specific balances and transactions took primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
The team also met with the Mot Hennessy audit team.
These at each of the five shared services centres, including testing of visits included meetings with local management and with the transaction processing and controls, supported the financial component auditors, as well as certain operating site tours.
The information of the reporting components they serve.
group engagement partners also attended the year-end clearance meetings for North America and USL, and the group engagement team reviewed the audit working papers for these components and certain other components.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 95 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of misstatements identified during our audit above 7 million 2016: materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
7 million for both the group and company as well as misstatements These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, Going concern both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: a whole.
Reporting obligation Outcome Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We are required to report if we have We have nothing anything material to add or draw material to add or Group financial Company financial attention to in respect of the directors to draw attention to.
statements statements statement in the financial statements However, because not Overall 179 million 2016: 97 million 2016: 96 million.
about whether the directors considered all future events or materiality 140 million For the purposes of the audit it appropriate to adopt the going conditions can be of the group financial concern basis of accounting in preparing predicted, this statements, we applied statement is not a the financial statements and the a lower materiality of directors identification of any material guarantee as to the 20 million 2016: 15 million uncertainties to the groups and the groups and companys to all balances and companys ability to continue as a going ability to continue as transactions, other than those a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve which eliminated on months from the date of approval of consolidation in the group the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors We have nothing How we 5% of profit before Materiality of 97 million statement relating to Going Concern in to report.
determined it taxation and for the company financial accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is exceptional items statements was based on materially inconsistent with our as defined in note 0.5% of net assets.
knowledge obtained in the audit.
4 to the group Our lower materiality of financial 20 million for the line items Reporting on other information statements set out above was based The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual on our calculation and Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report allocation of component thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
materiality for the Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other group audit.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, Rationale for We consider an The results of procedures except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any benchmark adjusted measure performed over balances form of assurance thereon.
applied to be one of the and transactions In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our principal contributing to the groups responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, considerations for overall results were used to consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent the members of support our group opinion.
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, Diageo plc in We consider a net asset or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an assessing the measure to reflect the nature apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are recurring financial of the company, which required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a performance of the primarily acts as a holding material misstatement of the financial statements or a material group as it best company for the groups misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have represents results investments and holds performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this from underlying certain liabilities on the other information, we are required to report that fact.
nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated we also considered whether the disclosures required by the a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
of materiality allocated across components was between 9.5 million Based on the responsibilities described above and our work and 100 million.
Certain components were audited to a local undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct group materiality.
Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
96 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Other Code provisions Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report when: report for the year ended 30 June 2017 is consistent with the financial The statement given by the directors, on page 63, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
and understandable, and provides the information necessary In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and for the members to assess the groups and companys position company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report CA06.
obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 66 describing the work The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
of the group The directors statement relating to the companys compliance We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a The directors confirmation on page 62 of the Annual Report that relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks for review by the auditors.
facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Directors remuneration The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the The directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report as Companies Act 2006 CA06.
to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to Responsibilities for the financial statements be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a andthe audit reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing As explained more fully in the directors responsibility statement attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable We have nothing to report having performed a review of the framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and to fraud or error.
considering the directors process supporting their statements: In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going considering whether the statements are consistent with the concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or environment obtained in the course of the audit.
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 97 Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 23 September 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the years ended 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 July 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the Diageo plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
