Financial Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Monks Investment Trust PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Report on the Financial Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Our opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion, The Monks Investment Trust PLCs Financial We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Statements the Financial Statements : risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for at 30 April 2017 and of its net gain and cash flows for the year example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved then ended: making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our What we have audited audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2017: we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this the Income Statement for the year then ended: context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and Income from We assessed the accounting policy for the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary investments income recognition for compliance with of significant accounting policies and other explanatory accounting standards and the AIC SORP Refer to page 25 Audit information.
and performed testing to check that income Committee Report, Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the had been accounted for in accordance with pages 38 and 39 this stated accounting policy.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Accounting Policies We found that the accounting policies These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are and pages 39 and 42 implemented were in accordance with notes.
accounting standards and the AIC SORP, Income from The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the and that income has been accounted for investments which preparation of the Financial Statements is United Kingdom Accounting in accordance with the stated accounting consists of dividend Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard policy.
income, interest applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law income and gains We understood and assessed the design United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
losses on investments and implementation of key controls is a key area of focus surrounding income recognition.
Our audit approach due to these figures This included considering the relevant representing a controls tested and reported upon through Overview significant element of the Baillie Gifford & Co AAF01 06 and Materiality the Income Statement.
ISAE3402 Type II Reporting Accountants We focused on the Assurance Report on Internal Controls for Overall materiality: 14.1 million which represents 1% of net assets.
accuracy and the year ended 30 April 2016 and enquiries Audit scope completeness of of Internal Audit and other management of dividend income Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and recognition and its In addition, we tested dividend receipts by has engaged Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned presentation in the agreeing the dividend rates from a sample subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as the Companys Alternative Income Statement as of investments to independent third party Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford set out in the sources.
No misstatements were identified & Co Limited has delegated the investment management function requirements of The by our testing which required reporting to to Baillie Gifford & Co the Manager.
Association of those charged with governance.
Investment Companies We conducted our audit of the Financial Statements at Baillie To test for completeness, we tested that the Statement of Gifford & Co. appropriate dividends had been received in Recommended the year by reference to independent data We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types Practice the AIC of dividends declared by a sample of of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third SORP.
investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, This is because testing did not identify any unrecorded and the industry in which the Company operates.
inaccurate income We tested the allocation and presentation of Areas of Focus could have a material dividend income between the income and Income from investments.
impact on the capital return columns of the Income companys net asset Statement in line with the requirements set Valuation and existence of investments.
value and dividend out in the AIC SORP.
the year were immaterial at 496,000.
30 Annual Report 2017 Financial Report How we tailored the audit scope Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Income from The gains losses on investments held at fair enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements investments contd value comprise realised and unrealised as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the gains losses.
We also focused on Company, the involvement of the Manager, the accounting processes gains losses on For realised gains losses, we tested disposal and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
investments held at fair proceeds by agreeing the proceeds to bank As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in value due to the statements and sale agreements and we place at the Manager to the extent relevant to our audit.
This subjective nature of the re-performed the calculation of a sample of valuation of unquoted realised gains losses.
assessment involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports, investments.
For unrealised gains losses, we obtained an issued by the independent auditors of the Manager in accordance with understanding of the valuation process as generally accepted assurance standards for such work, to gain an set out in the valuation and existence area of understanding of the Managers control environment and to consider focus.
We tested the book cost the operating and accounting structure at the Manager.
Following this reconciliation, including testing on a sample assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent basis, the realised gains, purchases and of testing required over each balance in the Financial Statements.
sales to agree the total unrealised gains losses incurred during the period.
Materiality No misstatements were identified by our The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of testing which required reporting to those materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to We also tested a sample of journals to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of ascertain whether any inappropriate journals our audit procedures on the individual Financial Statement line items had been posted to income.
No issues were and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both identified through our testing in this area.
individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Valuation and We tested the valuation of the listed equity Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for existence of investments by agreeing the prices used in the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: investments the valuation to independent third party sources.
Refer to page 25 Audit Overall materiality 14.1 million 2016 10.1 million.
Committee Report, For unlisted debt investments, we agreed pages 38 and 39 the valuation to broker quotes or agreed the How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Accounting Policies price to other third party sources.
and pages 41 and 42 Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally For two of the unlisted equity investments, notes.
benchmark applied accepted auditing practice for investment we understood the basis of the valuation The investment methodology, reviewed the Unlisted trust audits, in the absence of indicators that portfolio at the Securities Valuations Group minutes, and an alternative benchmark would be year-end comprises reviewed the underlying documentation appropriate and because we believe this of listed equity used to support the valuation used, such as provides an appropriate and consistent investments external third party valuations or draft capital year-on-year basis for our audit.
1,487.3m, unlisted statements for the investment.
For the third We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them debt 6.2m and unlisted equity investment, we agreed the misstatements identified during our audit above 707,000 2016 unlisted equity valuation to the purchase documentation as 505,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our 13.6m.
this investment was only purchased one month prior to year end, in March 2017. view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We focused on the valuation and existence No misstatements were identified by our Going concern of investments because testing.
We tested the existence of all types Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors investments represent of investment in the portfolio by agreeing the the principal element of holdings for investments as at 30 April 2017 statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We have the net asset value as to an independent custodian confirmation nothing to report having performed our review.
disclosed on the from Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
No Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Balance Sheet in the differences were identified.
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Financial Statements.
Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 31 Financial Report The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company Other required reporting and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Consistency of other information and compliance with liquidity of the Company applicable requirements Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Companies Act 2006 reporting anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The Directors confirmation on page 15 of the We have nothing the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 material to add Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements of the Code, that they have carried out a robust or to draw are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and assessment of the principal risks facing the attention to.
company, including those that would threaten its the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been business model, future performance, solvency or prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have nothing company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we those risks and explain how they are being material to add are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements managed or mitigated.
or to draw in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to attention to.
The Directors explanation on page 16 of the We have nothing ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 material to add Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our of the Code, as to how they have assessed the or to draw opinion: prospects of the Company, over what period they attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to information in the Annual Report is: We have no be appropriate, and their statement as to whether exceptions to they have a reasonable expectation that the materially inconsistent with the information in the report.
company will be able to continue in operation and audited Financial Statements: or meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of apparently materially incorrect based on, or their assessment, including any related disclosures materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or the Company acquired in the course of assumptions.
performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the statement given by the Directors on page 29, We have no principal risks facing the Company and the Directors statement in in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK exceptions to relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was Corporate Governance Code the Code, that report.
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting to be fair, balanced and understandable and their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with provides the information necessary for members to the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the assess the Companys position and performance, statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the business model and strategy is materially course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company performed our review.
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 25 and Adequacy of accounting records and information and We have no 26, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to explanations received describing the work of the Audit Committee does report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in not appropriately address matters communicated our opinion: by us to the Audit Committee.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
32 Annual Report 2017 Financial Report Directors remuneration We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial opinion Statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit Other Companies Act 2006 reporting evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the this responsibility.
audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Corporate governance statement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and legal requirements.
the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for the preparation for and on behalf of  LLP of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors true and fair view.
Edinburgh 27 June 2017 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 33
