Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC ACT 2006 We have audited the parent company financial statements of In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Sports Direct International plc the Company for the 53-week be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the period ended 30 April 2017, which comprise the parent company Companies Act 2006. balance sheet, the parent company statement of changes in In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework audit: that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Report for the financial period for which the parent company Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 'The Financial Reporting financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland'.
financial statements: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required MATTER ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT UNDER THE to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic or for the opinions we have formed.
Report or the Directors' Report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities BY EXCEPTION Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
received from branches not visited by us: or SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the parent company financial statements and the part of A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at agreement with the accounting records and returns: or www.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are not made: or In our opinion, the parent company financial statements: we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as require for our audit.
at 30 April 2017: OTHER MATTER have been properly prepared in accordance with United We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Sports Direct International plc for the 53-week period ended 30 April 2017. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Philip Westerman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 19 July 2017 153
