Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC OUR OPINION ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS of Sale EPOS transactions.
Key to the appropriate recognition UNMODIFIED of this revenue is the capture of the EPOS data and the Group operates a control to ensure the completeness and accuracy of this IN OUR OPINION THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: data as it is transferred into the accounting system.
Other material Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's affairs as at sources of revenue are from web sales, wholesale sales and from 30 April 2017 and its profit for the 53-week period then ended: licencing agreements for brands owned by the Group.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Under International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland European Union: and 240 there is a presumed risk that revenue may be misstated due to the improper recognition of revenue.
The revenue recorded by Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the Group is also one of the key determinants of Group underlying Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
EBITDA, which is the primary financial Key Performance Indicator KPI for the Group.
Therefore, we identified revenue recognition as WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO a significant risk.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the period, management revised their segmental reporting Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of revenue and related disclosures to present UK Sports Retail and companys members those matters we are required to state to International Sports Retail separately.
This decision was taken them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest following the result of the referendum on the UKs membership extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility of the EU and in light of the challenges facing the International to anyone other than the company and the companys members business.
This change also reflects the outcome of the Groups as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we discussions with the Financial Reporting Council FRC on this have formed.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
Sports Direct International plc's Group financial statements for the 53-week period ended 30 April 2017 comprise the consolidated HOW WE RESPONDED TO THE RISK income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow Determining whether revenue is recorded in the accounting statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and system consistent with the accounting policy and considering the related notes.
the appropriateness of that policy: Checking the accounting entries for a sample of retail The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their transactions and identifying entries not derived from EPOS preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European transactions for further investigation: Union.
Testing, on a sample basis, that licencing and wholesale sales are recognised appropriately by checking to underlying OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH arrangements licencing, proof of delivery wholesale and Overall Group materiality: 9.5m, which represents 3.5% of the subsequent cash receipts: 1 Group's underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Testing the completeness and accuracy of the EPOS data from and amortisation underlying EBITDA : tills through to head office: We performed: Testing a sample of sales transactions in stores to till reports and cash banked: Full scope audit procedures on the main trading company Testing the reconciliation of internet sales receipts in total to within the UK Sports Retail division, Sportsdirect.
com Retail cash received: and Limited and the parent company of the Group: Analytically reviewing sales trends at an individual store level Targeted audit procedures over the Premium Lifestyles and by product type to identify trends and variances that would division, SDI Brook UK Limited, SDI Brook EU Limited, require further substantive testing.
SDI Property and overseas components in Austria, Ireland, Belgium and the United States of America: and The Group's accounting policy on revenue recognition is shown Analytical audit procedures on all remaining entities across in note 1 to the financial statements and segmental analysis of the Group.
revenue is included in note 4.
The Audit Committee identified risk of Key audit risks were identified as revenue recognition, related fraud in revenue recognition as an area of significance in its report party disclosures, accounting for foreign currency forward on page 83, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this area.
contracts & option arrangements, carrying value of inventory and property provisions.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK The objective of IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures is to ensure the financial statements draw attention to the possibility that the In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the financial position and financial performance of the Group may have following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect on been affected by the existence of related party transactions.
We have identified related party disclosures as a significant risk for AUDIT RISK the current period audit given that this has the potential to impact REVENUE RECOGNITION assessments of the Group's operations by users of the financial Revenue is recognised in accordance with the Group's accounting statements.
There is also significant media and regulator interest policy and International Accounting Standard IAS 18: Revenue.
The majority of Group revenue is recorded through Electronic Point 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORY The carrying value of inventory is stated net of provisions for Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: obsolete or slow moving inventory.
During the period, management Updating our knowledge of related party relationships through adapted their methodology to calculating provision levels by enquiries of management, review of board meeting minutes and applying an approach based on risk assessments covering seasonal searches of company information databases: stock, Group brands, stock type, and expected sale coverage.
Performing searches for related party transactions on the Group's accounting records using data interrogation software We have identified the carrying value of inventory as a risk because and comparing to those identified by the Group: of the complexity of this calculation and the judgement and Obtaining supporting documentation for a sample of related assumptions applied by management in assessing the amount of party transactions: and provision required to record inventory at the lower of cost and net Reviewing and challenging disclosures of related party realisable value.
transactions in the financial statements to assess their This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Group's related party disclosures are included in note 37.
The Audit Committee identified related parties as an area of Testing the underlying stock provision model used for significance in its report on page 83, where the Committee also mathematical accuracy by re-performing the calculations described the action that it has taken to address this area.
Considering the appropriateness and consistency of the underlying assumptions within the model: ACCOUNTING FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS AND Challenging managements assessment of the assumptions OPTION ARRANGEMENTS applied, and reviewing the reports management use to verify the The Group has a number of forward currency contracts that are ongoing appropriateness of provision levels: classified as derivative financial instruments and are accounted for Testing the selling price of inventory sold post period end against under IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
its carrying value: and Challenging key estimates and judgements in managements We have identified accounting for forward currency contracts and overall stock provision risk assessment paper.
option arrangements as a significant risk for the current period audit due to the quantum of instruments entered into in the current The Group's accounting policy on inventories is shown in note 1 and and prior period.
The potential impact of the fair value movements related disclosures are included in note 20.
The Audit Committee of these instruments on the consolidated income statement and identified the carrying value of inventory as an area of significance consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, the in its report on page 83, where the Committee also described the material asset and liabilities at the consolidated balance sheet action that it has taken to address this area.
date, and the significant judgements and estimates inherent in both the inception and period end valuations.
PROPERTY PROVISIONS A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or The long-term nature of these instruments could have a material constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that impact on the future results of the Group.
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Property provisions in the period have increased across the Group, particularly as a result of loss making stores in the International Reviewing the documentation of hedging strategy and risk Sports Retail segment.
management objectives: Obtaining details of foreign exchange contracts from We have identified the valuation of property provisions, being banking institutions and agreeing those instruments held to dilapidations and onerous leases, as a significant risk due to the management's hedge effectiveness assessment: judgement in determining the requirement for a provision and the Review of the banks valuations and comparing them to assumptions underpinning the calculations.
managements external valuation and investigating any significant differences: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Testing the calculations prepared by management to confirm the hedging arrangements remained effective in accordance with the Reviewing the calculations in respect of property provisions: requirement of IAS 39: and Challenging the estimates, assumptions and valuation Verifying the prospective and retrospective tests to ensure that methodology used by management: the hedge effectiveness requirements were met at inception and Testing the recognition of provisions meets the IAS 37 criteria: Continued to be met throughout the period and at the reporting and date.
Ensuring the disclosures within the financial statements are complete.
The Group's accounting policy on forward currency contracts and option arrangements is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are The Group's accounting policy on property provisions is shown in included in note 29 and in the strategic report.
The Audit Committee note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 28.
The Audit identified the accounting for forward currency contracts and Committee identified the completeness of onerous lease provisions option arrangements as a risk in its report on page 83, where the as an area of significance in its report on page 83, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this risk this area.
94 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE Group assets, liabilities, revenues and underlying EBITDA: SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT For those components that were evaluated as significant, either a full-scope or targeted approach was taken based on their MATERIALITY relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of the audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the risk.
For significant components requiring a full-scope approach financial statements that makes it probable that the economic we evaluated controls over the financial reporting systems decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed identified as part of our risk assessment and addressed critical or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing accounting matters.
We then undertook substantive testing on and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that significant transactions and material account balances: work.
In order to address the audit risks described above and identified during our planning procedures, we performed a full-scope We determined materiality for the audit of the Group financial audit of the financial statements of the parent company, Sports statements as a whole to be 9.5m, which is 3.5% of the Groups Direct International plc and the main trading company within underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and the UK Sports Retail division, SportsDirect.
This benchmark is considered The operations that were subject to full-scope audit procedures the most appropriate because this is the measure against which made up 54% of consolidated revenues and 84% of underlying the performance of the Group is measured both internally and EBITDA: externally.
Targeted procedures were performed to address the significant risks described above on the Premium Lifestyle division, SDI Materiality for the current period is lower than the level that we Brook UK Limited, SDI Brook EU Limited, SDI Property and determined for the 52-week period ended 24 April 2016 reflecting four components within the International Sports Retail division the decrease in reported underlying EBITDA in the period.
The located in Belgium, Ireland, Austria and the United States of measurement percentage used of 3.5% remains unchanged from America: the prior period.
The operations that were subject to targeted audit procedures We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, made up 35% of consolidated revenues and 16% of underlying to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of EBITDA: financial statement materiality for the audit of the Group financial The remaining operations of the Group were subject to analytical statements.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality procedures over the balance sheet and income statements of the related entities with a focus on applicable risks identified above for certain areas such as directors' remuneration and related party transactions.
and the significance to the Groups results and financial position: and We determined the threshold at which we will communicate Where the work was performed by component auditors we misstatements to the audit committee to be 475,000.
In addition, determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT whole.
Detailed audit instructions were issued to the component A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial auditors where a targeted audit approach had been identified.
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council's website The instructions detailed the significant risks to be addressed at www.
through the audit procedures and indicated the information we required to be reported back to the group audit team.
We We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards were involved in the planning for overseas components and on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under performed site visits to client locations in Austria and Ireland, those standards are further described in the 'Responsibilities for which included a review of the work performed by the component the financial statements and the audit' section of our report.
Where targeted components were not physically believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and visited a review of working papers was conducted remotely.
The appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
group audit team communicated with all component auditors throughout the planning, fieldwork and concluding stages of We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Auditing local audits.
Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those The chart below demonstrates the coverage of our audit Ethical Standards.
procedures: Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Group's business and is risk based, and in particular included: REVENUE UNDERLYING EBITDA Working with management to evolve our audit approach, which resulted in advanced audit procedures during the Interim review Period 6 and January 2017 Period 9.
Our procedures focused on revenue occurrence testing, reviewing the updated inventory provision, testing of property, plant and equipment additions and disposals, testing of available-for-sale investments and review of accounting for foreign currency forward contracts and option arrangements: Comprehensive Evaluation by the Group audit team of identified components Targeted within the Group to assess the significance of that component and to determine the planned audit response based on a Analytical measure of materiality considering each as a percentage of total 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS The annual report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the audit committee which we OUR OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE consider should have been disclosed.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 ARE UNMODIFIED In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or to Report for the financial period for which the Group financial draw attention to in relation to: statements are prepared is consistent with the financial The Directors' confirmation in the annual report that they have statements: carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been Group including those that would threaten its business model, prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: future performance, solvency or liquidity: The information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 and and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook The Directors' statement in the financial statements about made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and identification of any material uncertainties to the Group's ability Information about the companys corporate governance code to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from and practices and about its administrative, management and the date of approval of the financial statements: and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules The Directors' explanation in the annual report as to how they 7.2.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT UNDER THE appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a COMPANIES ACT 2006 reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing identified material misstatements in: attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
The Strategic Report or the Directors' Report: or RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT The information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about What the directors are responsible for: share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement 7.2.
set out on page 92, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, What we are responsible for: in our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK are not made: or and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing We have not received all the information and explanations we Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
require for our audit: or A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: statements of Sports Direct International plc for the period ended The Directors' statement, in relation to going concern and 30 April 2017 and on the information in the Directors' Remuneration longer-term viability, set out on pages 71 and 76 respectively: Report that is described as having been audited.
and Philip Westerman The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Senior Statutory Auditor company's compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants in our opinion, information in the annual report is: London Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or 19 July 2017 Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or 1 Underlying EBITDA, underlying profit before taxation and underlying EPS exclude realised foreign exchange gains losses in selling and administration costs, exceptional costs, disposal of subsidiaries Otherwise misleading.
and the profit loss on sale of strategic investments.
Underlying EBITDA also excludes the Share Scheme charges.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors' statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable: or 96
