FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report To the members of Greene King plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the primary statements and related notes of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 which comprise: Group Parent company Group income statement for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2017 Group statement of comprehensive income for the 52 weeksended Company statement of changes in equity for the 52 weeksended 30April2017 30 April 2017 Group balance sheet as at 30 April 2017 Related notes 34 to 44 to the financial statements Group cash flow statement for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 Group statement of changes in equity for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 Related notes 1 to 33 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall group materiality was 13.7m 2016: 12.4m, which represents approximately 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional andnon-underlying items.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks ofmaterial misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Risks of material Capital expenditure accounting.
misstatement Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate.
Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override.
Complex customer and supplier arrangements including rebates.
What has Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changed in response to changes in circumstances affecting the GreeneKing plc changed business and impacting the group financial statements.
Since the 2016 audit we have made the following changes to our areas of focus: Errors identified in prior periods of incorrect capitalisation of assets and assets being misclassified and assigned incorrect useful economic lives, together with the ongoing Greene King and Spirit estate integration and the more challenging trading environment, have resulted in this risk being raised to a significant risk this year.
We have separated the trading estate impairment risk and goodwill impairment risk into separate risks to better reflect their respective risk profile and testing strategies.
We have also separated the significant risk related to complex customer and supplier arrangements from revenue recognition fraud risk in order to better reflect their respective risk profiles and testing strategies.
There is a new significant risk this year as a result of HMRC raising a protective assessment for a potential stamp duty land tax liability on a property group restructuring and where the outcome is highly judgmental and uncertain.
We no longer consider the risk relating to uncertain tax positions UTPs as a risk of material misstatement as the material UTPs have now been settled with HMRC.
We no longer consider the risk relating to the deferred tax provision for rolled over gains and property revaluations to bea significant risk.
This is due to the decreased level of deferred tax liability and improvements in managements process following the implementation of a new software system to assist in the calculations.
Our performance materiality had been set to a lower threshold of 50% in 2016, due to the increased risk of material misstatement arising from the significant changes in the group following the acquisition of Spirit in that period.
The integration is largely complete and therefore the risk was substantially reduced and performance materiality was set back at the normal level of 75%.
72 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, wedo not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these risks of material misstatements and our audit response are set out in the table below.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2016.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheaudit committee Capital expenditure accounting Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 14 of the group financial New statements page 105 From our testing of additions for property, plant We verified the appropriateness of the groups capital expenditure As a result of the procedures and equipment PP&E in prior year audits we accounting principally through but not limited to the following performed and after considering had identified a small but increasing trend of key procedures: managements corrections, i items being capitalised that were non-capital wehave concluded that PP&E We disaggregated the PP&E additions population by purchase in nature and ii assignment of inappropriate additions have been recognised order type and by value in order to identify homogeneous subsets UELs or residual values RVs.
in accordance with IAS 16. exhibiting the same risk characteristics.
From these sub-populations This was considered together with the ongoing we selected both key-item and representative samples.
We checked Greene King and Spirit estate integration, and the supporting rationale for capitalisation against the the more challenging trading environment recognition requirements of IAS 16. thisyear.
The identified sample error rates were extrapolated over the Management performed their own analysis and homogenous sub-populations to estimate the overall error.
testing of items capitalised in the year and made We compared our test results to those of management and an adjustment for the errors identified.
assessed the reasons for the differences.
Our respective test We have identified capital expenditure results were materially consistent.
We benchmarked the capitalisation policy with industry peers in order to confirm they were comparable.
For our sample we reviewed the useful economic lives UELs and RVs against an expectation based on historic actual UELs.
We benchmarked the net impairment charges and depreciation expenses as a percentage of PP&E to peers inorder to compare trends.
Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 14 of the group financial statements page 105 The group has PP&E with a net book value We obtained an understanding of the groups process employed We considered the reasonableness of3,622m relating to its trading estate to identify indicators of impairment and to estimate appropriate and appropriateness of the groups asat30 April 2017. impairments of PP&E at a cash-generating unit CGU level estimates, noting that all significant sitelevel.
We then tested key elements of those processes.
assumptions fell within a range For the trading estate, impairments are Inparticular: of acceptable outcomes.
considered on a site-by-site basis when an impairment indicator has been identified.
We compared the profit growth rates in the cash flow As a result of the procedures forecasts to the budget, to external market growth estimates performed, we concluded that In assessing impairment, management and to the rates applied by industry peers.
We also compared the groups impairment indicator estimates the recoverable value of each site them to recent actual profit growth rates over the last five-year analysis and impairment by reference to the higher of its value in use period and corroborated explanations for any anomalies.
assessment for the groups based on the groups key assumptions in CGUs had been carried out relation to forecast profits, growth rate and We used our valuation experts to assess the reasonableness appropriately and in accordance applied discount rate and fair value less costs ofthe discount rate applied to cash flows by benchmarking to with the accounting standards.
As a result of the Spirit comparator companies and market information.
acquisition and the bond issue, external We reperformed the groups sensitivity calculations applied valuations were obtained in 2016 to tothe cash flows and considered the groups judgment of how determine the FVLCD.
a reasonably possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment based upon our knowledge of the groups activities and industry knowledge.
We checked the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of theimpairment models using formula consistency tools andreperformance.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheaudit committee Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate continued An update of certain property valuations in We checked in the impairment model that the sites recoverable We concluded that the related 2017 was performed where necessary to amount RA was the higher of value in use VIU and FVLCD.
disclosures in the group financial support FVLCDs used.
Where the FVLCD was required to support the recoverable These processes have a high degree of value of a site, we evaluated the robustness and appropriateness judgment and therefore carry a higher level of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key ofinherent risk of material error.
assumptions and judgments made by the companys experts.
Inaddition for a sample of sites where the RA continued to be supported by the FVLCD and a decrease in VIU had been seen, we requested management obtain updated external valuations.
We evaluated the competence and independence of the expertsused by the company by reference to their qualifications and experience.
Where impairment indicators existed but no impairment charge had been recognised due to managements judgment being applied and manually overriding the model, we sought and corroborated explanations from management on the individual pubs to validate that no impairment charge was required.
We evaluated the appropriateness, sufficiency, and clarity of any impairment-related disclosures provided in the group financial statements, including the disclosure of key sensitivities.
Stamp duty land tax Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 25 of the group financial New statements page 117 We have identified a significant risk of a stamp We used our tax audit, stamp duty and tax controversy specialists As a result of the procedures duty land tax SDLT provision being materially to evaluate the groups assessment of the provision required.
performed, and in light of the misstated given the level of judgment involved in information known to date, we Our work included: its estimation.
This estimate is significant following have concluded that managements HMRC raising a protective assessment on inspecting correspondence with HMRC and the advice estimate of the possible SDLT Greene King on the intra-group transfer of a exposure is appropriate and received from the groups own tax advisers, and performing property portfolio completed as part of a inaccordance with the our own assessment of the most likely outcome on the basis property reorganisation transaction in 2012. requirements of IAS 37. of our experience of similar scenarios.
Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 3 of the group financial statements page 93 In accordance with International Standards on We obtained an understanding of the processes for the recognition As a result of the procedures Auditing UK and Ireland there is a presumed of revenue in each of the revenue streams, and separately for the performed, we have been able fraud risk relating to revenue recognition.
recognition of retrospective discounts please see below for to conclude that revenue has details of their testing.
been recognised in accordance We consider that there is a higher level of risk with the revenue recognition associated with whether beer and liquor sales For food, liquor and accommodation sales in the Pub Company policy and accounting standards.
in the Brewing & Brands and Pub Partners division we have focused our testing on manual journals posted divisions are recognised appropriately and in to this revenue stream.
For beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands and For food, liquor and accommodation sales in PubPartners divisions: the Pub Company division, we consider these we performed detailed transaction testing by agreeing a are low risk given that the transactions are sample of individual revenue items to sales invoices, evidence routine, low value, and high volume with no of delivery and subsequent cash receipt: estimation uncertainty.
Accordingly, the fraud risk for such revenues is limited to manual we performed sales cut-off testing immediately before and journal entries and other adjustments made after the year end by testing sales invoices to evidence of delivery at the end of a reporting period.
to ensure that revenue had been recognised in the correct accounting period: additionally we have performed similar detailed testing on credit notes to confirm that the credit note has been recognised in the appropriate accounting period: and we conducted specific analytical procedures on revenue and credit notes recognised either side of the year end to test managements conclusion that the related revenue had been recognised in the correct accounting period.
Please also see the procedures performed over the customer rebate payables detailed opposite.
74 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheaudit committee Complex customer and supplier arrangements including rebates Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 3 of the group financialstatements page 93 We have identified a significant risk of We obtained an understanding of the different rebate programmes, As a result of the procedures material misstatement on customer and obtaining the standard terms of the most material programmes performed, we have been able supplier arrangements which include complex and arrangements and agreed them to managements calculation.
to conclude that revenue, taking retrospective rebate estimates which could account of any due discounts We checked that the revenue data used in managements include incorrect judgments or assumptions.
payable, has been recognised in calculation was consistent with that which had been audited.
We also This risk is associated with the accuracy and We completed analytical review procedures over the rebate conclude that, from the procedures completeness of retrospective discounts and programme investigating unusual movements period on period.
performed, the discounts rebates due to the area being more receivable had been correctly susceptible to management override.
We have tested and concluded that the correct revenue recognised.
We noted that in all cut-off had been applied through our testing over revenue.
cases managements assumptions For the key rebates receivable recognised as due at the period and estimates were reasonable.
end we have vouched material items to payments or credits received after the period end if payments had been received.
For those key rebates where payments had not yet been received since period end we obtained contracts and vouched key rebate terms back to the period-end position in order to determine that the correct accounting treatment had been applied.
Goodwill impairment Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 51 : accounting policies page 85 : and note 13 of the group financialstatements page 103 As at 30 April 2017, the goodwill on the We obtained an understanding of the groups process employed to As a result of the procedures group balance sheet amounted to 1,108.8m identify indicators of impairment and to estimate RA of the performed, we have been able 2016: 1,122m.
goodwill CGUs at an operating segment level.
We then tested to conclude and concur with key elements of those processes.
In particular: management that no impairment Goodwill recorded by the group represents should be recognised in accordance thepurchase price in excess of the fair value we challenged managements assumptions by comparing the with IAS 36 given the significant of the net assets of businesses acquired.
For profit growth rates in the cash flow forecasts to the budget, headroom across all three Greene King, impairment is assessed at an external market growth estimates rates applied by industry operating divisions.
We noted operating segment level i. e. Pub Company, peers and recent actual profit growth rates over the last five-year that in all cases managements Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands, being period, and corroborated explanations for any anomalies: assumptions and estimates the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
we tested the reasonableness of the discount rate applied to werereasonable.
In line with IAS 36, management reviews cash flows through benchmarking to comparator companies thegoodwill allocated to its goodwill CGUs and market expectations: carrying its operating segments annually or we reperformed the groups sensitivities applied to the cash more frequently if impairment indicators flows and considered the groups judgment of how a reasonably arepresent.
possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment These processes have a high degree of based upon our knowledge of the groups activities and factors judgment and therefore carry a higher level in the sector: ofinherent risk of material error.
we reviewed managements determination of operating segments as this is considered to be the lowest level at which management monitors and assesses goodwill.
We noted that the Spirit divisions acquired in the prior year have been subsumed within the legacy divisional structure to match how management now operates the business: we checked the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the impairment models: and we evaluated the appropriateness, sufficiency, and clarity ofany impairment-related disclosures provided in the group financial statements, including the disclosure of key sensitivities.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias bythe directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together this enables us to form an opinion on the group financial statements under International Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based in the head office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying andassessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming ouraudit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
PERFORMANCE REPORTING MATERIALITY MATERIALITY THRESHOLD 13.7m 10.3m 700k Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 13.7m 2016: 12.4m, which is set at approximately 5% 2016: 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
How we determined materiality Starting basis Adjustment Materiality Profit before tax of 184.9m Excluding exceptional items 13.7m, being approximately of88.6m to determine theprofit 5%of the profit before tax before tax and exceptional and andexceptional and non-underlying items of 273.5m non-underlying items Rationale for basis We used pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items of 273.5m because it is a key performance indicator used in communications withinvestors, it is more reflective of underlying trading profitability and it is a key metric used by the group in the assessment of the performance of management.
We also note that market and analyst commentary on the group uses pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items as a key metric.
Therefore, in our view, we consider pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered this to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
76 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, the absence of changes in the business environment such as the acquisition of Spirit in 2016 and the number and monetary amounts of individual uncorrected misstatements identified in prior periods as well as the nature of the misstatements, our judgment was that the overall performance materiality for the group should be 75% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 10.3m 2016: 6.2m.
We have set our performance materiality to a higher threshold in 2017, reflecting the absence of significant changes in the group such as the acquisition of Spirit in 2016 which had, in that period, increased the risks of misstatement.
Our objective in considering and adopting this approach was to ensure that the total of any detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 13.7m for the group financial statements as a whole.
Audit work on individual components for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on apercentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the size of the component relative to the group as a whole and our assessment of risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 2.7m to 8.1m 2016: 2.5m to 5.6m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.7m 2016: 0.6m, which is set at5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements inaccordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit workhas been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report andfor no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and thecompanys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 46 to 71 withrespect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures and in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority: is consistent with the financial statements: and has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirement: and based on the work undertaken during the course of the audit rules 7.2.
7 in respect in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices about itsadministrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees have been complied with if applicable.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland reporting exceptions to report.
intheannual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthegroup acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement included on page 71 that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the We have no 2006reporting course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the strategic report, directors exceptions to report.
report or corporate governance statement.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate forour audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report tobeaudited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 70, and longer-term viability, set out on page 37: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance withtheprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
78 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing Ireland reporting material to add or attention to in relation to: todraw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Lloyd Brown Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, statutory auditor London 28 June 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Greene King plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 79
