Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc Opinion on financial statements of DS Smith Plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial statements also comprise the parent Company balance sheet and related notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit risks that we identified in the current year were: Key audit risks classification and presentation of exceptional items: and taxation.
The materiality that we used in the current year was 16m which was determined on the basis of profit before tax and Materiality exceptional items.
Our full scope audit procedures provided coverage at the Groups key locations accounting for 55% 2015 16: 57% of Scoping revenue and 55% 2015 16: 53% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
The component auditor performed procedures on the significant risks and material balances for the other locations which accounted for 33% 2015 16: 30% of revenue and 29% 2015 16: 36% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Last year our report included one other risk in relation to acquisition accounting which is not included in our report this year.
Significant The acquisitions made in the current year are not individually or in aggregate significant to the statement of financial changes in position of the Group.
The acquisition accounting in relation to these purchases is therefore not considered to be a key risk our approach to the Group financial statements this year.
There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in the current year other than this matter.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 a to the financial statements and the Directors statement of the longer-term viability of the Group on page 41.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 39 45 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 81 81 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Exceptional items have been evaluated as to their nature in order to assess whether Classification and presentation their classification and presentation are in line with the Groups accounting policy of exceptional items and guidance from ESMA and the Financial Reporting Council.
The quantification of The presentation and consistency of costs and income such items has been assessed by agreeing to source documentation.
We have within exceptional items is a key determinant in the reviewed managements application of the policy for consistency with previous assessment of the quality of the Groups earnings accounting periods.
Management judgement is We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide required in determining whether an item is exceptional sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
based on the size and nature of the item.
For the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group incurred net exceptional Key observations and acquisition related costs of 62 million.
Refer to We are satisfied that the amounts classified as exceptional items are reasonable note 4 for details of the exceptional items in the year in all material respects and the related disclosure of these items in the financial and note 1 v for managements policy for identifying statements is appropriate.
We worked with our tax audit specialists, including those in required local Taxation jurisdictions, to challenge the estimates and judgements made by management The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated number of uncertain tax positions require judgements provisions held.
We reviewed the correspondence with the taxation authorities in respect of the likely outcome of negotiations with in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from various tax authorities.
Refer to note 1 u for external counsel or other advisers where management has utilised such opinions managements process for estimating and recording to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments and assessing the tax provisions and note 21 for detail of the deferred reasonableness of the provisions made.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions used in calculating the tax charge are appropriate.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 62.
Our application of materiality Group We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement materiality in the financial statements that makes it probable that the 16m PBT excluding economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person exceptional items would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in Component materiality planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the Group materiality 0.3m to 8m results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined Audit Committee threshold 0.65m materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 16 million 2015 16: 13 million Group materiality Approximately 5% profit before tax and exceptional items 2015 16: approximately 5%.
This is consistent with Basis for determining the prior year.
The materiality equates to less than 1% 2015 2016: less than 1% of revenue from continuing materiality operations and 1% 2015 16: 1% of net assets.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected to Rationale for the be volatile year on year and profit before tax and exceptional items is a key metric for users of the accounts and is benchmark applied consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 650,000 2015 16: 650,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
82 82 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Revenue Profit before tax and Independence An overview of the scope of our audit exceptional items We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope Our assessment of risks of material misstatement primarily on the audit work at nine components 2015 16: nine The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These nine components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and, accordingly, Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address Exceptional items have been evaluated as to their nature in order to assess whether Classification and presentation the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group their classification and presentation are in line with the Groups accounting policy of exceptional items audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at and guidance from ESMA and the Financial Reporting Council.
The quantification of these components and follows a programme of planned site visits The presentation and consistency of costs and income such items has been assessed by agreeing to source documentation.
We have within exceptional items is a key determinant in the that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or reviewed managements application of the policy for consistency with previous Full audit scope 55% Full audit scope 55% assessment of the quality of the Groups earnings another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the accounting periods.
Management judgement is Specified audit procedure 33% Specified audit procedure 29% full scope components or attends close out meetings.
These We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide required in determining whether an item is exceptional components accounted for 55% 2015 16: 57% of revenue and Review at Group level 12% Review at Group level 16% sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
For the year 55% 2015 16: 53% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
ended 30 April 2017, the Group incurred net exceptional Key observations and acquisition related costs of 62 million.
Refer to For the remaining locations within our audit scope, the component auditor performed audit procedures on the significant risks and material We are satisfied that the amounts classified as exceptional items are reasonable note 4 for details of the exceptional items in the year balances and provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit in all material respects and the related disclosure of these items in the financial and note 1 v for managements policy for identifying team held discussions with the local audit partner in the current year.
These remaining locations accounted for 33% 2015 16: 30% of statements is appropriate.
revenue and 29% 2015 16: 36% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We worked with our tax audit specialists, including those in required local Taxation At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that jurisdictions, to challenge the estimates and judgements made by management The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated number of uncertain tax positions require judgements to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
Refer to note 1 u for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 external counsel or other advisers where management has utilised such opinions managements process for estimating and recording In our opinion: to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments and assessing the tax provisions and note 21 for detail of the deferred reasonableness of the provisions made.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Key observations Companies Act 2006: We are satisfied that the assumptions used in calculating the tax charge the information given in the strategic report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent are appropriate.
with the financial statements: and These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 62. identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report.
Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records in the financial statements that makes it probable that the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received results of our work.
from branches not visited by us: or Based on our professional judgement, we determined the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
as follows: Directors remuneration 16 million 2015 16: 13 million Group materiality Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Approximately 5% profit before tax and exceptional items 2015 16: approximately 5%.
The materiality equates to less than 1% 2015 2016: less than 1% of revenue from continuing materiality We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
operations and 1% 2015 16: 1% of net assets.
Corporate governance statement We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected to Rationale for the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys be volatile year on year and profit before tax and exceptional items is a key metric for users of the accounts and is benchmark applied compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
com 83 83 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Our duty to read other information in the annual report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 29 June 2017 84 84
