with existing contractual arrangements and | Firstly, an aggregate nominal amount of Employee consultation Greenhouse gas emissions will seek shareholder approval for a revised 3,330,000, representing approximately Employees are kept informed on matters The disclosures concerning greenhouse policy as soon as is practicable.
5% of the current issued Ordinary share affecting them as employees and on various gas emissions required by the Large and capital Resolution 14b : and issues affecting the performance of the Medium-sized Companies and Groups The Directors remuneration report can be Group through CEO briefing updates, Accounts and Reports Regulations are | Secondly, a further 5% of the found on pages 54 to 73. announcements on the Groups intranet, included in the CSR section of the Strategic Companys share capital, provided formal and informal meetings at local level Report on pages 34 to 39.
Power to allot shares that this additional power is only used and direct written communications.
All The present authority of the Directors to in connection with acquisitions and Remuneration report employees are eligible to participate on an allot shares was granted at the AGM held specified capital investments which are The Directors Remuneration report contains: equal basis in the Groups SIP, which has in September 2016 and expires at the announced contemporaneously with | A statement by Jill Caseberry, Chairman been running successfully since its inception forthcoming AGM.
A resolution to renew the issue or which have taken place in of the Companys Remuneration in 2000. that authority for a period expiring at the the preceding six month period and are Committee: conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2018 disclosed in the announcement of the Disabled employees will be proposed at the AGM.
The authority | The Directors remuneration policy: and issue Resolution 15.
Applications for employment by disabled will permit the Directors to allot up to an | The Annual report on remuneration, persons are given full consideration, taking The 2015 Statement of Principles defines aggregate nominal amount of 22m of which sets out payments made in the into account the aptitudes of the applicant a specified capital investment as one or share capital which represents approximately financial year ended 30 April 2017. concerned.
Every effort is made to try to more specific capital investment related uses 33% of the present issued Ordinary share ensure that employees who become disabled for the proceeds of an issuance of equity The statement by the Chairman and Annual capital and is within the limits approved by whilst already employed are able to continue securities, in respect of which sufficient report on remuneration will be put to the Investment Association and the National in employment by making reasonable information regarding the effect of the an advisory shareholder vote by ordinary Association of Pension Funds.
adjustments in the workplace, arranging transaction on the listed company, the assets resolution.
The Directors have no present intention appropriate training or providing suitable the subject of the transaction and where The policy part of the Report, which sets of exercising such authority and no issue alternative employment.
It is Group policy appropriate the profits attributable to them out the Companys forward looking policy of shares which would effectively alter that the training, career development and is made available to shareholders to enable on Directors remuneration including the the control of the Company will be made promotion of disabled persons should, them to reach an assessment of the potential approach to exit payments to Directors, without the prior approval of shareholders in as far as possible, be the same as that of return.
Items that are regarded as operating is subject to a binding shareholder vote by a general meeting.
expenditure rather than capital expenditure ordinary resolution at least every three years.
will not typically be regarded as falling within The Groups equal opportunity policy is A special resolution will be proposed to The vote on the policy document included in the term specified capital investment.
available on the Companys website: renew the authority of the Directors to this report will be held in September 2017. allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to This policy, if approved, will take effect www.
com existing shareholders on a proportionate from the end of the AGM and be in place basis in accordance with the best practice for three financial years.
If the Directors Political donations guidance set out in the Statement of Remuneration Policy is not approved, the No political donations were made by any Principles issued by The Pre-Emption Group Company will, if and to the extent permitted Group company in the year.
and which has been endorsed by the by the Companies Act 2006, continue to Investment Association.
This authority will make payments to Directors in accordance be limited to: 74 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 75 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED The Directors have no present intention of Please refer to Note 6 to the Notice of AGM The Directors propose to renew the general A resolution for the appointment of PwC as exercising this authority and confirm their on page 125 for details of the Companys authority of the Company to make market auditor of the Company will be proposed intention to follow the provisions of The arrangements for electronic proxy purchases of its own shares to a total of at the forthcoming AGM.
This proposal is Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles appointment.
The second condition is that 13,300,000 Ordinary shares representing supported by the Audit and Risk Committee.
regarding cumulative use of such authorities there is an annual resolution of shareholders approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary The Directors Report, comprising the within a rolling three year period.
The approving the reduction of the minimum share capital and within the price Corporate Governance Report and the Principles provide that companies should notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
constraints set out in the special resolution Reports of the Audit and Remuneration not issue shares for cash representing more to be proposed at the AGM.
A resolution to approve 14 days as the Committees, has been approved by the than 7.5% of the Companys issued share minimum period of notice for all general Financial instruments Board and signed on its behalf.
capital in any rolling three year period, other meetings of the Company other than AGMs Details of the Groups use of financial than to existing shareholders, without prior By order of the Board will be proposed at the AGM.
The approval instruments are given in the Financial review consultation with shareholders.
This limit will be effective until the Companys next on pages 18 to 25 and in Notes 21 and 29 to Katie Wood excludes any Ordinary shares issued pursuant AGM, when it is intended that the approval the accounts.
Company Secretary to a general disapplication of pre-emption be renewed.
26 June 2017 rights in connection with an acquisition or Auditor specified capital investment.
It is the Boards intention that this authority In the case of each of the persons who are would not be used as a matter of routine Directors of the Company at the date when Disclosure of information under but only when merited by the circumstances this report was approved: Listing Rule 9.8.
4 of the meeting and in the best interests of | So far as each of the Directors is aware, Dividend waiver arrangements are in shareholders.
there is no relevant audit information of place for the employee trusts as shown on which the Companys auditor is unaware: page 71.
Authority for the Company to and purchase its own shares Length of notice of There is no present intention to buy back | Each of the Directors has taken all the general meetings any of the Companys own shares and, steps that they ought to have taken as The minimum notice period permitted by the if granted, the authority would only be a Director to make himself aware of any Companies Act 2006 for general meetings exercised if to do so would result in an relevant audit information as defined of listed companies is 21 days, but the Act improvement in earnings per share for and to establish that the Companys provides that companies may reduce this remaining shareholders.
auditor is aware of that information.
period to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two conditions are met.
The This confirmation is given and should be first condition is that the Company offers a interpreted in accordance with the provisions facility for shareholders to vote by electronic of s418 Companies Act 2006. means.
This condition is met if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping Each of the Directors, whose names and the Annual Report, the Directors adequate accounting records that are functions are listed in Board of Directors on Remuneration Report and the financial sufficient to show and explain the pages 42 to 43, confirm that, to the best of statements in accordance with applicable Companys transactions and disclose with their knowledge: law and regulations.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial | The Group financial statements, which position of the Company and the Group have been prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to and enable them to ensure that the financial IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true prepare financial statements for each statements and the Directors Remuneration and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial year.
Under that law the Directors Report comply with the Companies Act financial position and profit of the Group: have prepared the Group and Parent 2006 and, as regards the Group financial and Company financial statements in accordance statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
with International Financial Reporting | The Strategic report includes a fair review They are also responsible for safeguarding Standards IFRS as adopted by the European of the development and performance the assets of the Company and the Group Union.
Under company law the Directors of the business and the position of the and hence for taking reasonable steps for must not approve the financial statements Group, together with a description of the prevention and detection of fraud and unless they are satisfied that they give a the principal risks and uncertainties that other irregularities.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of it faces.
the Group and the Company and of the The Directors are responsible for the By order of the Board profit or loss of the Group for that period.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys In preparing these financial statements, the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Kevin Bradshaw Directors are required to: governing the preparation and dissemination Chief Executive Officer of financial statements may differ from 26 June 2017 | Select suitable accounting policies and legislation in other jurisdictions.
then apply them consistently: | Make judgements and accounting The Directors consider that the Annual estimates that are reasonable and report and accounts, taken as a whole, prudent: is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for | State whether applicable IFRS as shareholders to assess the Companys adopted by the European Union have performance, business model and strategy.
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: | Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
76 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 77 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Northgate plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by Report on the financial statements the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance Our opinion with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: | Northgate plcs Group financial statements and Our audit approach Parent Company financial statements the financial Overview statements give a true and fair view of the state of | Overall Group materiality: 3.6m which represents 5% of profit before tax.
the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups | Northgate plc has two principal trading components in the UK and Spain, both of which and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then are financially significant components for the Group audit.
Materiality ended: | In aggregate full scope audits of these components provided us with the evidence required | the Group financial statements have been properly to form an opinion on the financial statements.
Collectively the scope of our work covered prepared in accordance with International Financial 97% of revenue, 96% of total assets and 91% of profit before tax.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Audit scope The key areas of focus for our audit, as set out below, are: European Union: | Determining appropriate depreciation rates for vehicles available for hire.
| the Parent Company financial statements have been | The recoverability of aged trade receivables.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Areas by the European Union and as applied in accordance with of focus | Provisions for uncertain tax positions.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and | the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
What we have audited In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting The financial statements, included within the Annual Report estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of | the Balance sheets as at 30 April 2017: bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
| the Consolidated income statement for the year then The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and ended: effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these | the Statements of comprehensive income for the year specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the then ended: results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
| the Cash flow statements for the year then ended: | the Statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and | the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Determining appropriate depreciation rates We examined managements assumptions of expected future market values of hire vehicles for vehicles available for hire used in the calculation by comparison to external third party industry data for expected future market prices.
The net book value of vehicle assets for hire at 30 April 2017 is 731.7m 2016: 684.5m with a depreciation charge for the year of 149.7m 2016: 137.7m.
IAS 16 Property, Plant We considered the historical accuracy of expected future market values by comparison to and Equipment requires that depreciation rates and estimated useful lives are reviewed actual values achieved.
regularly to ensure that the net book value of tangible fixed assets when they are sold is We tested the assumption of the level of vehicle registrations to third party, publicly available broadly equivalent to their market value.
data and recalculated the impact of a reduction in fleet age on disposal profits.
This requires management to make an estimate of the sale proceeds at the time of disposal.
We performed detailed testing of the calculations supporting these judgements, including Determining likely sales proceeds for future vehicle disposals is judgemental and requires comparison to recent actual market prices achieved on disposal of similar vehicles.
a number of key estimates to be made, including the age, condition and mileage of each vehicle, the method of selling a vehicle and expected future market conditions, such as From the work we performed we did not identify any material misstatements.
forecast levels of supply and demand.
Further explanation is included in the Groups critical accountingjudgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, the Audit Committee report on page 51 and Note 14.
The recoverability of aged trade receivables We recalculated provisions to test whether they were calculated in accordance with Group policy.
Trade receivables are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value less any provision for irrecoverable amounts.
At 30 April 2017 net trade receivables were 53.7m 2016: 58.1m We examined the levels of post year end cash collections against year end trade receivables after provisions of 13.9m 2016: 12.8m.
and investigated individual overdue balances, by reference to recent history of recoveries and correspondence with customers.
Determining an appropriate provision for potentially irrecoverable trade receivables requires judgement across the Groups large and diverse customer base of the likely levels of recovery To assess the reasonableness of provisions we tested the age profile of the trade receivables of these receivables along with the consideration of the overall economic environments in balance back to a sample of invoices raised.
We considered the collectability of individual the UK, Ireland and Spain.
balances raised more than 90 days, by reference to recent history of recoveries and correspondence with customers.
Further details are included in the Groups critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, the Audit Committee report on pages 51 to 53 and We also performed look back testing to consider managements historical accuracy of Note 18. provisioning for trade receivables.
From the work we performed we did not identify any material misstatements.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions We evaluated and challenged managements rationale for the level of provisions held.
We considered the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, the out-turn of previous We focused on this area due to the judgment required in assessing the need for provisions claims and the tax environment in each territory.
We also considered any penalty regimes to cover the risk of challenge of certain of the Groups tax positions, which have been taken that could apply should any of the Groups tax positions be challenged successfully.
as current tax deductions in the current and previous years.
Uncertain tax provisions at the year end totalled 14.3m 2016: 14.2m.
78 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 79 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONTINUED REPORT to the members of Northgate plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements How we tailored the audit scope as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Overall Group materiality 3.6m 2016: 3.9m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Northgate plc has two principal trading components in the UK and Spain, a smaller trading Rationale for benchmark We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of profit before component in Ireland and a non-trading component in Malta, overseen by a Group function applied tax is an appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, in the UK.
although of course an item could also be material The subsidiary businesses in the UK and Spain were financially significant components for the for qualitative reasons.
We selected profit before tax Group audit.
because management believes it best reflects the performance of Northgate plc.
The UK audit team performed the audit of Northgates UK business and received an audit opinion from the PwC member firm in Spain on Northgate Spain.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a We ensured that appropriate further audit work was undertaken for Northgate plc as the materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
This included audit work on, for example, centrally held tax provisions, The range of materiality allocated across components accounting for financial hedging instruments, the consolidation of the Groups results, the was 2.2m for Northgate Spain to 3.0m for Northgate preparation of the financial statements, assessing the appropriate classification of exceptional UK.
Certain components were audited to a local items and work on certain disclosures within the Directors remuneration report.
statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the team responsible for the audit of Northgate Spain: this included consideration of how they planned and performed their work, We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified visiting the business once during the year and attending the audit closing meeting, which was during our audit above 180,000 2016: 200,000 as well as misstatements below that also attended by the Northgate Spain Finance Director.
amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Materiality Going concern The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, 24, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate ISAs UK & Ireland reporting to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the | information in the Annual Report is: We have no date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the exceptions Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial to report.
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the statements: or Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired Other required reporting in the course of performing our audit: or Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements otherwise misleading.
Companies Act 2006 reporting | the statement given by the Directors on page 77, in accordance We have no In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the exceptions | the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to to report.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information financial statements: and necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys | the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance position and performance, business model and strategy is materially with applicable legal requirements.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we | the section of the Annual Report on page 51, as required by provision We have no have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does exceptions Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit to report.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: | the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 48 to 50 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and | the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 48 to 50 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
80 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 81 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONTINUED REPORT to the members of Northgate plc The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: | we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or | adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns | the Directors confirmation on page 28 of the Annual Report, in We have adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out nothing | the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including material Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, to add or solvency or liquidity.
to draw | We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
| the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have Directors remuneration explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
nothing Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion material In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been to add or properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. to draw Other Companies Act 2006 reporting attention to.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain | the Directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report, in We have disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have nothing to report arising from this responsibility.
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have material Corporate governance statement done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and to add or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that to draw corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities attention to.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance assumptions.
Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
