Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc the Company Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2017: Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion the Company statement of cash ows for the year then ended: In our opinion, Micro Focus International plcs company financial statements the financial statements : the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 2017 and of its cash ows for the year then ended: significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising What we have audited FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Annual Report, comprise: Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
166 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors Directors remuneration judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis Other Companies Act 2006 reporting for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of and the audit performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Our responsibilities and those of the directors misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether of the financial statements set out on page 96, the directors are responsible those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Other matter Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Micro Focus in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards International plc for the year ended 30 April 2017. require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Andrew Paynter Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these Senior Statutory Auditor opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other for and on behalf of  LLP person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Reading 17 July 2017 What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 167
