Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Micro Focus International plcs Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: $16.8m which the financial statements : represents approximately 3.5% of profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April Materiality purchased intangibles.
2017 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: The Micro Focus Group has finance functions in have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial three principal locations around the world, being Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Audit the UK, US and Ireland.
One of these is the scope Groups head ofce located in the UK where have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies our work on the Group consolidation was Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Local teams in the US and Ireland Areas of audited the primary business components Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB focus accounted for from those locations, with the As explained in the Summary of significant accounting policies, the group, in Group audit team visiting these locations during addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied the year both to direct and supervise the work IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
of local teams and to make sure we had a full and complete understanding of their work In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by particularly in so far as it related to the identied the IASB.
What we have audited In total, locations where we performed audit The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts work accounted for 75% of the Group revenues the Annual Report, comprise: and 70% of the Groups revenues.
the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 April 2017: Revenue recognition the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Fair value of acquisition accounting then ended: Exceptional costs and restructuring provisions the Consolidated statement of cash ows for the year then ended: Taxation the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Summary of significant accounting policies: and The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors and applicable law.
that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
98 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Revenue recognition Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 1 and 2 pages 119 to 121 Our testing focused on the larger and more complex revenue transactions throughout the year and on sales made around the year end to check that We focused on this area because the allocation of revenue to each revenue was accounted for in the correct period.
In aggregate, the contracts component of a sale Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting, tested accounted for approximately 27% of total Licence revenue during when sold together in a bundle, requires the application of judgment in the year.
allocating revenue between the components of the bundle.
We assessed this risk to be greatest in larger transactions, where there is increased In respect of sales contracts tested, we checked that the fair value likelihood of unusual sales arrangements containing bespoke terms.
allocation of revenue between the Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting components at deal inception was in line with the terms of the Given that Licence revenue is generally recognised up front in full, whereas sales contracts and Group accounting policies.
This included considering Maintenance and Subscription revenue is spread over the duration of the any unusual terms in the sales contracts and the period during which contact term, the risk of there being inappropriate allocation of revenue also Maintenance is to be provided to the customer.
We tested the basis upon becomes more relevant in the period immediately prior to the year end.
which management calculate the fair value attributable to the components of revenue by reference to the sales price achieved when components are We also addressed how processes and controls may have been sold on a standalone basis, which we found to be consistent.
circumvented and manual adjustments made to revenue.
In order to identify where processes and controls may have been circumvented and inappropriate manual adjustments made to revenue, we used data analysis techniques to identify revenue postings in certain significant reporting entities not generated by cash or trade receivables or a release from deferred income.
Having identied those transactions, we traced a sample to supporting documentary evidence that, without exception, supported their validity.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Fair value of acquisition accounting Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 37 pages 157 to 163 Our testing focused on the larger and more judgmental fair value adjustments that were recorded.
Particular adjustments we tested were: We focused on this area because the fair value adjustments which included the creation of intangible assets, associated deferred tax liabilities, and a Intangible assets intangible assets of $317.7m were valued, representing reduction in deferred income in relation to the Serena acquisition were customer relationships, trade names and technology.
The directors obtained judgmental in nature and also material or potentially material.
external valuations for the acquired intangible assets.
Using our own valuations expertise, we evaluated the valuation methodologies used for Serena Software Inc. Serena was acquired on 2 May 2016 for $277.6m, each type of asset and satisfied ourselves that the methodology was payable in cash at completion.
At the acquisition date, the carrying value of appropriate and consistent with market practice.
We also examined the its net assets totaled $147.3m.
Adjustments to record the assets and key assumptions used as inputs to the valuation models to assess whether liabilities at fair value as is required by accounting standards decreased these were consistent with our understanding of the Serena business, the value of the acquired net assets by $249.3m.
As a result goodwill its historical performance and the markets in which it operates.
assumptions included revenue and profit forecasts, discount rates, customer attrition rates, technology obsolescence rates and royalty rates.
We found that the key valuation assumptions were within our expected range and that the valuation methodologies applied were appropriate.
Deferred tax In accordance with accounting standards, the creation of these intangible assets resulted in the creation of deferred tax liabilities on acquisition of $109.2m.
We examined and satisfied ourselves with the methodology and tax rates used to calculate these liabilities.
This involved reference to the tax jurisdictions in which Serena operates, levels of business in those jurisdictions and the manner in which profits are expected to be repatriated and taxed.
Deferred income Adjustments totalling $4.6m were recorded reducing the value of deferred income.
The purpose of this adjustment was to record the liability at the fair value for which it could be settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction.
We checked that the methodology used to calculate the fair value was appropriate under the accounting standards, consistent with market practice for this type of transaction and consistent with recent transactions entered into by the Group.
We found this to be the case.
We also tested the appropriate unwinding of the deferred income adjustment in line with the revenue prole.
This reduction in deferred income resulted in $3.8m less revenue recognised in the post-acquisition period than there would have been if no adjustment had been made.
100 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Exceptional costs and restructuring provisions Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 3 and 24 pages 121 to 123 and 142 to 143 We tested the presentation of exceptional items by assessing whether the classication in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consistent with the prior year, restructuring activities have occurred in was in line with the Groups accounting policy set out on page 125 and relation to both the integration of The Attachmate Group Inc. TAG and whether the accounting policy was consistent with IFRS.
We found no Serena Software Inc. Serena businesses, which has led to $27.7m of issues regarding the accounting policy or its application.
In addition, pre-acquisition costs of $58.0m have been were recorded that were in respect of exceptional items, we reconciled the incurred in relation to the future acquisition of HPE Software.
These exceptional charge recorded in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive costs mostly relate to due diligence work, legal work on the acquisition income to the movement in the related provision.
agreements, professional advisors on the transaction and pre-integration costs relating to activities in readiness for the HPE Software acquisition We selected a sample of items in respect of which restructuring and across all functions of the existing Micro Focus business.
pre-acquisition costs had been recognised, focusing in particular on the more significant costs.
For the sample selected we found that the costs The presentation of restructuring and pre-acquisition costs in the recognised were consistent with supporting documentation and were Consolidated statement of comprehensive income as exceptional expenses appropriately classied.
required additional consideration, as the classication of an expense as exceptional depends on judgments made by the directors in identifying such We tested the onerous lease and dilapidation provisions by agreeing details items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is of property obligations to underlying rental contracts for a selection of important in order to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
For properties that the Group expects to sub-let, we noted that the Group had engaged third parties in the active marketing of properties Provisions as at 30 April 2017 primarily comprise $16.2m for onerous lease and we compared the period of assumed vacancy prior to the expected and dilapidation and $12.1m for restructuring and integration.
Additions in sub-let date to supporting documentation.
We also assessed whether the the year primarily comprised $4.6m in respect of changes in the estimated sub-let income assumed was commensurate with rental rates under time to sublease a North American property, and $48.5m in relation to negotiation with potential sub-let tenants.
We found managements severance and integration activities in bringing together the Base Micro estimates to be consistent with these observations.
Focus, TAG, Serena and GWAVA organisations into one organisation.
There have been $43.5m of provision utilisations in the year.
The extent of restructuring and integration costs credits provided for in the financial statements involves the exercise of judgment regarding the estimate of future costs and the extent to which a constructive obligation exists.
The estimate of onerous lease provisions also requires judgment in particular, where the directors intend to sub-let the property, given uncertainties regarding the expected rental income and the time delay in securing a sub-tenant.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Taxation Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 6, 21 and 28 pages 124 and 125, 141, 149 and 150 We used our tax specialists to evaluate the judgments and calculations made by management in estimating the provisions held in respect of The existing Group structure is complex and the Group also has a uncertain tax positions.
In doing so we assessed the provisions recognised significant presence in jurisdictions that have more complex tax legislation.
in the financial statements by reference to the outcome of prior tax audits This brings with it an increased level of complexity and uncertainty in conducted on the Group, correspondence between the Group and relevant relation to the appropriate level of provisioning required throughout tax authorities, the view of the Groups tax advisors and our own experience the Group.
We found the provisions to be within an acceptable range.
We used our local tax expertise in the UK and US to understand the key judgments made by the Group in relation to ongoing integration activities within the Group.
We held meetings with senior management and read correspondence from the Groups external tax advisors and considered their views on these matters.
We assessed and formed our own views on the key judgments made by the Group and found that the judgments made were materially consistent with our own views in respect of the significant tax exposures.
102 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the How we tailored the audit scope financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and Overall Group $16.8m 2016: $14.8m.
controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
materiality In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we assessed the audit How we 3.5% of profit before tax, exceptional items and signicance of each reporting unit in the Group by reference to both its determined it amortisation of purchased intangibles.
financial signicance and other indicators of audit risk, such as the complexity Rationale for We applied this benchmark to eliminate volatility and of operations and the degree of estimation and judgment in the financial benchmark preserve the link between materiality and the results.
We also considered the changes to the overall Group as a result of applied performance of the underlying business.
the acquisition and ongoing integration of Serena Software Inc. in the year and where the key business activities and transactions reside.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Following this assessment, we determined that we needed to focus our audit misstatements identied during our audit above $840,000 2016: $700,000 work at the Groups head ofce.
We also instructed PwC US and PwC Ireland, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted as component auditors, to perform audits of financial information of the reporting for qualitative reasons.
significant reporting units accounted for locally in those territories.
We visited these locations during the year to ensure we obtained a full understanding of Going concern the operational activities, and appropriately scoped risks and agreed responses Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set to those risks.
We also attended audit clearance meetings in these locations out on page 96, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having and took an active part in reviewing the work undertaken by PwC US and PwC performed our review.
Ireland on the areas of significant risk and areas of focus relevant to their locations.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything level over the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to In total, locations where we performed audit work accounted for 75% of Group draw attention to.
revenues and 70% of the Groups cost base.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it Materiality is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 96, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 61 to 64, as required by We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 44 of the Annual Report, in accordance We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
104 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement What an audit of financial statements involves that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process error.
This includes an assessment of: supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Adequacy of information and explanations received directors: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and Directors remuneration evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing made.
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the Corporate governance statement effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the nothing to report having performed our review.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Responsibilities for the financial statements based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the and the audit course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we consider whether As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
on page 96, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Other matter Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2017 and on the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Andrew Paynter person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Senior Statutory Auditor where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading 17 July 2017 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105
