Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Halma plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at1 April 2017 and of the groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C13.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles with a focus on discount factors and growth rates utilised in managements assessment of impairment of goodwill, specifically in relation to the Sensor Technologies cash generating unit CGU and significant acquired intangibles with a potential impairment trigger: Acquisition accounting for material acquisitions in the current year this is focused on the provision for deferred contingent consideration on the FluxData acquisition : and Discount and inflation rate assumptions applied in determining the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
No new key risk areas have been identified in the current year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 7.5 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of statutory profit before taxation.
Scoping We focused our Group audit primarily on the full scope and specified procedures audits at 60 locations.
These locations accounted for 68% of the Groups revenue and 76% of the Groups profit before taxation.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes in our approach.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Accounting Policies note to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the governance section on page 82.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 82 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing thegroup, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 21-27 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Accounting Policies note to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and 114 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the directors explanation on page 82 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we areindependent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in thosestandards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
How the scope of our audit Risk description responded to the risk Key observations Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets At 1 April 2017, the net book value of goodwill We challenged the reasonableness of From our work performed, weare was 604m 2016: 542m and net book the short term forecast growth rates satisfied with the carrying value value of acquired intangible assets was with reference to the budgets approved of the goodwill attributable to 200m 2016: 208m.
by the Board, evidence of secured the Sensor Technologies CGU, contracts, historical performance and the acquired intangible On an annual basis, management are andpost period trading data.
assets associated with CenTrak, required to perform an impairment Firetrace and Visiometrics.
assessment for goodwill, and to assess We assessed the long term growth Weare also satisfied with forindicators of impairment in respect rates by reference to market specific therelated disclosures in ofother intangible assets.
GDP growth rates based on third thefinancial statements.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is a key risk We performed a specific review and due to the quantum of the balance and challenge, involving Deloittes valuation thejudgements involved in setting the specialists, of the discount rates applied keyassumptions and assertions used by to the forecast cash flows.
We assessed management to support their assessment the Groups weighted average cost of ofthe carrying value.
In testing the carrying capital and specific risk premiums using value for impairment, management has external input data and benchmarking made a number of key assumptions including the discount rates against published short-term and long-term growth rates and peer group rates.
We recalculated managements Our risk in the current period has been sensitivity analysis on key assumptions focused specifically on the goodwill and replaced key assumptions with associated with the Sensor Technologies alternative scenarios, for example cash generating unit and the acquired applying further changes to discount intangible assets arising in CenTrak, Firetrace rates and forecast growth rates.
and Visiometrics due to there being slower than expected growth in these businesses.
We reviewed the disclosures made inthe financial statements and The associated disclosure is included in note assessed compliance with IAS 36.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 86 and it is included in the key accounting estimates andjudgements on page 130.
115 Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit Risk description responded to the risk Key observations Acquisition accounting There was one acquisition completed We challenged managements From our work performed, we duringthe period.
FluxData Incorporated judgement over the fair value of the deem managements estimate FluxData was acquired in January 2017 deferred contingent consideration by of deferred contingent for an initial consideration of 10.0m.
obtaining managements calculation, consideration to be at the understanding the forecast growth optimistic end of a range of possible outcomes, and There is a risk that acquisitions are not drivers, and assessing the assumptions accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 made including sales to date for key therefore the provision of 9.4m recorded on the balance sheet Business combinations where material customers, performance post judgements exist.
acquisition, and evidence of future sales.
could be considered prudent butis not materially misstated.
We focused this risk to the judgement We further challenged managements associated with the estimate of deferred judgement through sensitivity over the contingent consideration, which pays up key growth assumptions to determine to a maximum of $15.5m 12.8m.
This is alternative scenarios, and therefore a dependent on managements estimate of range of possible outcomes.
the performance of FluxData through the earn-out period which runs to 30 March 2019, and management has recorded a provision of 9.4m on acquisition in respect of this.
Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 24 to the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 86 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements on page 130.
Defined benefit pension scheme assumptions At 1 April 2017 the net retirement benefit We used our internal actuarial experts From the work performed, we are liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance to assess the assumptions applied in satisfied that the significant Sheet related to the Groups defined benefit accounting for the defined benefit assumptions applied in respect of pension schemes was 75m 2016: 52m.
pension liability and determined the valuation of the scheme whether the key assumptions are liabilities are appropriate and There is a risk relating to the application by reasonable.
This included reviewing liein the middle of the range management of the key assumptions that available yield curves and inflation ofreasonable assumptions.
Weare also satisfied with impact the valuation of the defined benefit data to recalculate a reasonable pension scheme liability, specifically the rangefor the key assumptions.
therelated disclosures in discount rate and inflation rate assumptions.
These variables can have a material impact We challenged management to on calculating the quantum of the retirement understand the sensitivity of changes benefit liability.
in assumptions and quantify a range ofreasonable rates that could be used Management utilise the services of third in their calculation.
We discussed the party actuarial advisers to determine their output of sensitivity analysis with key assumptions.
management and their third party actuarial advisers.
Additionally we Details of the defined benefit pension benchmarked key assumptions against scheme are disclosed in note 28 to the other listed companies to check for any accounts.
The Audit Committee has outliers in the data used.
includedtheir assessment of this risk on page 86 and it is included in the key accounting We also considered the adequacy estimates and judgements on page 130. ofthe Groups disclosures in respect ofthe sensitivity of the deficit to changesin these key assumptions.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
116 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 7.5m 2016: 7.3m Basis for determining materiality 5% 2016: 5% of statutory profit before taxation.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Consistent with the prior period, profit before taxation was used as the benchmark for materiality, as we consider it to be one of the main measures used by management to monitor the performance of the business.
Group materiality 7.5m PBT 157.7m Maximum component materiality 1.8m PBT Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.375m Group Materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 375,000 2016: 365,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 60 out of 100 trading entities 2016: 53 out of 98.
The increase in the total trading entities in the period was a result of the FluxData acquisition and the internal reorganisation at Avire.
58 2016: 51 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 2 2016: 2 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent ofour testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The full scope and specified audit procedures entities represent the principal business units and account for 68% 2016: 68% of the Groups revenue and 76% 2016: 77% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 58 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 17,000 to 1,760,000 2016: 15,000 to 1,972,000.
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits based on their risk assessment.
As a minimum, each year a senior member of the Group audit team will visit the significant components defined as contributing greater than 10% of Group profit or revenue, of which only Apollo UK met these criteria in the period, inaddition to visiting the US component auditor and selected US components.
Furthermore all 28 UK components aredirectly overseen by the Group engagement partner or Group director.
In years when we do not visit a component that is in scope, we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
These procedures also included, at a minimum, obtaining the bank reconciliations and statements for all entities above a 375,000 threshold.
For a selection of relevant entities, based on a risk threshold criteria, we also performed revenue cut off, subsequent cash receipt and inventory provision tests necessary to conclude on these balances.
117 Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued Revenue Profit before tax 2 2 1 1 1 Full audit scope and 68% 1 Full audit scope and 76% specified procedures audit specified procedures audit 2 Review at group level 32% 2 Review at group level 24% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
118 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit andexpress an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become awareofany apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Thomas Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 13 June 2017 119
