84 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC IN OUR OPINION: SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and KEY RISKS MATERIALITY of the parent Companys aff airs as at The key risks that we identi ed in the We determined materiality for the Group 1 April 2017 and of the Groups pro t current year were: to be 24.5 million 2016: 30 million, for the 52 weeks then ended: based on a calculation of 5% of pro t Accounting for exit costs of certain the Group financial statements have before tax adjusted for certain adjusted of the wholly owned international been properly prepared in accordance items due to the nature and signi cance businesses with International Financial Reporting of these adjusted items.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the Presentation of adjusted performance European Union: measures of the financial statements SCOPING We performed a full scope audit on six the parent Company financial statements Impairment of UK store assets components of the business representing have been properly prepared in UK Clothing & Home inventory provision 97% of the Groups revenue, 89% of the accordance with IFRS as adopted by Groups pro t before tax and 85% of the the European Union and as applied in Retirement bene ts Groups net assets.
accordance with the provisions of the Manual adjustments to reported Companies Act 2006: and revenue SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN OUR the financial statements have been APPROACH Accounting for supplier rebates prepared in accordance with the Our audit approach is consistent with requirements of the Companies Act The description of risks below should be the previous year, with the exception of: 2006 and, as regards the Group read in conjunction with the signi cant financial statements, Article 4 of issues considered by the Audit Committee We have included an additional risk the IAS Regulation.
These in respect of the accounting for the exit matters were addressed in the context costs of certain of the wholly owned of our audit of the financial statements international businesses, given the The financial statements comprise: as a whole, and in forming our opinion signi cance of the charge incurred the Consolidated Income Statement, thereon, and we do not provide a separate during the year and the level of opinion on these matters.
estimation uncertainty: and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Within this report, any new risks are Specific audit procedures were performed identi ed with !
any risks which are on certain signi cant balances for China the Consolidated and Company the same as the prior year identi ed with and analytical review procedures were Statements of Financial Position, and any risks which have increased completed for Greece: in the previous the Consolidated and Company compared with the prior year are identi ed year these components were subject Statements of Changes in Equity, with.
the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows, the reconciliation of net cash ow SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS AS ISSUED BY THE IASB tomovement in net debt note, and the related notes 1 to 28 and C1 to C6.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal The financial reporting framework that obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied hasbeen applied in the preparation of the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
financial statements is applicable law and In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as issued bythe IASB.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
85 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have the disclosures on pages 32-33 that that period to be appropriate, and their reviewed the directors statement regarding describe those risks and explain how statement as to whether they have a the appropriateness of the going concern they are being managed or mitigated: reasonable expectation that the group basis of accounting contained within will be able to continue in operation the directors statement in note 1 to the note 1 to the financial statements and the and meet its liabilities as they fall due financial statements about whether they directors statement on the longer-term over the period of their assessment, considered it appropriate to adopt the viability of the Group contained within the including any related disclosures going concern basis of accounting in Other disclosures section on page 31. drawing attention to any necessary preparing them and their identi cation of quali cations or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or draw any material uncertainties to the groups attention to in relation to: ability to continue to do so over a period We agreed with the directors adoption of at least twelve months from the date of the going concern basis of accounting the directors' con rmation on page 30 of approval of the financial statements: and we did not identify any such material that they have carried out a robust uncertainties.
However, because not all assessment of the principal risks facing the directors explanation on page 31 as future events or conditions can be the Group, including those that would to how they have assessed the prospects predicted, this statement is not a threaten its business model, future of the Group, over what period they guarantee as to the groups ability to performance, solvency or liquidity: have done so and why they consider continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT RISK !
ACCOUNTING FOR THE EXIT COSTS OF CERTAIN OF THE WHOLLY OWNED INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSES 1 RISK DESCRIPTION As set out on page 10 of the Strategic When calculating the exit costs, management has estimated future settlement and Report, management announced their exit costs where these are not yet known.
The costs recognised in the period primarily proposal to close 53 stores across 10 relate to: international markets over the period Property exit costs: estimation Further detail of these estimates are from November 2016 to October 2017. uncertainty arises in managements included in the sources of estimation The Group has recognised a cost of assessment of likely exit costs where uncertainty disclosure in note 1.
131 million in the year in respect of these may diff er from the contracted exit costs, which is reported as an Given the magnitude of the exit costs future obligations under lease adjusted item in the Groups alternative and the level of estimation uncertainty, agreements.
we have directed a signi cant level of Staff restructuring costs: in certain our senior audit resource to assessing territories, estimation uncertainty the valuation of the costs recorded arises in the application of local staff during the year.
restructuring and redundancy laws where there are a range of possible outcomes dependent on factors outside the groups control.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We have evaluated the assumptions applied in calculating the charge for the year and, where possible, agreed inputs to the cost calculations to supporting factual evidence.
Our audit eff ort was focussed on the two key sources of estimation uncertainty described above.
Property exit costs: we obtained an Staff restructuring costs: we evaluated Key observations understanding of managements the calculations for redundancy The outcome of future exit negotiations assumptions in deriving estimated exit payments, agreeing the methodology and other future events gives rise to costs for a sample of properties that applied to local laws and regulations for a source of estimation uncertainty.
are being closed, assessing these in all signi cant countries.
We tested the We consider the restructuring charge the context of the possible maximum accuracy of the underlying data in these recorded in the year to have been obligations under the various lease calculations on a sample basis.
This included meeting a range of possible outcomes exists, we reviewed the disclosure in note 1 and with internal property experts, performed a sensitivity analysis on the consider it to be appropriate.
reviewing lease agreements and key inputs to the valuation model and any correspondence with landlords, consulted with our local experts in those consulting with our own property countries to validate key assumptions.
experts in certain local markets, and reviewing the actual settlements for stores where the exit negotiations had concluded.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 86 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK PRESENTATION OF ADJUSTED PERFORMANCE METRICS 2 RISK DESCRIPTION The presentation of income and costs m within adjusted measures to derive 800 adjusted pro t before tax' under IFRS is 44m -10m -10m 614m judgemental, with IFRS only requiring the 24m 156m 600 separate presentation of material items.
Judgement is exercised by management 52m 49m in determining the classi cation of items 400 133m as adjusted.
176m In the Groups reported results, signi cant 200 adjustments have been made to statutory pro t before tax of 176 million to derive 0 Reported International UK Store UK store Changes UK M&S Logistics Legal Adjusted PBT Exit Costs impairments estate to Pay & organisational Bank review settlements PBT adjusted pro t before tax of 614 million.
review Pensions restructure Explanations of each adjustment are set out in notes 1 and 5 to the financial In calculating the reported adjusted measures, there are two risks which may result statements, and are summarised in the in the adjusted pro t measure being misstated and therefore not being reliable to graphic to the right: users of the financial statements: items may be included in the adjustments inappropriately, distorting the reported adjusted earnings: and items may be omitted from the adjustments which are signi cant in nature and or quantum to the reported adjusted earnings.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We evaluated the appropriateness of the We assessed all items, either highlighted discussed the appropriateness of the inclusion of items, both individually and by management or identi ed through the item with the Audit Committee and any in aggregate, within adjusted items, course of our audit, which were regarded disclosure considerations.
including assessing the consistency of as signi cant in nature and or quantum, Key observations items included year on year and ensuring but included within adjusted pro t to We are satis ed that the items excluded adherence to IFRS requirements and ensure that these are not material either from pro t before adjusted items and the latest Financial Reporting Council FRC individually or in aggregate.
For all related disclosure of these items in the guidance.
We also agreed these items adjustments recorded in calculating financial statements are appropriate.
pro ts before adjusted items, we RISK IMPAIRMENT OF UK STORE ASSETS 3 RISK DESCRIPTION On 8 November 2016, the Group a full impairment assessment for all stores, future revenue growth: announced that a full review of the UK store other than those within their shelter period discount rates: estate was to be performed.
As a result, we see below, to determine if the carrying consider the risk of impairment of UK store value of these UK assets is supported.
gross margin: and assets has increased due to the impact of This assessment has included, where store costs, including the impact decisions resulting from the store review.
appropriate, the Groups ongoing strategic of the National Living Wage.
In addition, continuing economic review of the UK store estate, as described uncertainty, depreciation of sterling, on page 10 of the Strategic Report.
As The directors consider that each retail increases in business rates, the introduction a result, a total charge of 101 million store constitutes its own cash generating of the National Living Wage and the cost of has been recorded in respect of unit CGU, with the exception of the the Apprenticeship Levy impact the trading impairments and closure provisions.
outlet stores which are used to clear old performance of the UK store estate.
season Clothing & Home inventories at a When a review for impairment is discount.
The outlet stores are considered As described in the Accounting Policies conducted, the recoverable amount to represent one CGU in aggregate and in note 1 and in note 15 to the Financial is determined based on value in use strategic stores are evaluated as part of Statements, the Group held 4,838 million calculations which rely on the directors a country-wide impairment review.
2016: 5,027 million of property, plant and assumptions and estimates of future equipment at 1 April 2017.
The groups accounting policy sets out this value are assets which relate to UK a relevant shelter period for new stores The key assumptions applied by the Stores and in light of the UK store portfolio to be taken into account when assessing directors in the impairment reviews are: review and trading performance in certain indicators of impairment during initial stores, there is a risk that the assets held forecast periods in the context of years of trading to enable the store to in, and associated with, each store are not strategic decisions made to exit establish itself in the market.
Management has performed a location: 87 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK IMPAIRMENT OF UK STORE ASSETS CONTINUED 3 HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We considered the appropriateness of the We assessed the impairment models and calculations by: methodology applied by the directors in checking the mechanical accuracy of We assessed the appropriateness of the calculating the impairment charges, and the impairment models: shelter period for each store opened within the judgements applied in determining that time frame, and compared the original the CGUs of the business.
In addition, we assessing the discount rates applied to investment case for the store against its assessed the design and implementation the impairment reviews with support current trading performance.
Where stores of controls in respect of the impairment from our internal valuations specialist, were trading signi cantly below the review process, and considered the and comparing the rates to our internal original case, we considered the evidence adequacy of disclosures made in the benchmark data: available to support future improvements financial statements.
comparing forecast growth rates to in performance, speci cally by assessing economic data: and the trading plans and actions being taken on an individual store basis.
evaluating the information included in the impairment models through our Key observations knowledge of the business gained We assessed the level of impairment through reviewing trading plans, recorded in respect of the UK business strategic initiatives, minutes of property and are satis ed that the judgements board and investment committee applied by management and the level meetings, and meeting with regional of impairments recorded in the year store managers and senior trading are appropriate.
managers from key product categories and our retail industry knowledge.
RISK UK CLOTHING & HOME INVENTORY PROVISION 4 RISK DESCRIPTION At 1 April 2017, the Group held UK Clothing apply judgement in determining the We consider the assessment of inventory & Home inventories of 541 million appropriate provisions for obsolete stock provisions within UK Clothing & Home to require the most judgement based on 2016: 583 million.
As described in the based upon a detailed analysis of old Accounting Policies in note 1 to the season inventory, net realisable value the level of inventory held and recent Financial Statements, inventories are below cost based upon plans for inventory trading performance.
carried at the lower of cost and net to go into sale and stock loss based upon realisable value.
As a result, the directors the run rate from recent inventory counts.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We obtained assurance over the comparing the net realisable value, We evaluated consumer trends identi ed appropriateness of managements obtained through a detailed review of through benchmarking and external assumptions applied in calculating the sales subsequent to the year-end using market data to challenge the assumptions value of the inventory provisions by: audit analytics, to the cost price of underlying sales forecasts by category to inventories to check for completeness assess the completeness of provisions for checking the eff ectiveness of key of the associated provision: obsolescence.
inventory controls operating across the UK business, including those at 12 performing audit analytics on stock Key observations distribution centres and 13 retail stores: holding and movement data to identify The results of our testing were satisfactory product lines with indicators of low and we concur that the level of UK attending inventory counts at 12 stock turn or signi cant levels of aged inventory provisions is appropriate.
distribution centres and 13 retail stores: stock: and checking for a sample of individual meeting with buyers to validate the products that invoiced costs have been assumptions applied by management correctly recorded and that the compared to the current purchasing allocation of directly attributable costs strategy and ranging plans.
has been correctly calculated: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 88 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK RETIREMENT BENEFITS 5 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies 9,433 million 2016: 7,682 million and The setting of these assumptions is in note 1 and in note 11 to the Financial unfunded retirement bene ts of 9 complex and an area of signi cant Statements the Group has a fide ned million 2016: 9 million.
The Group judgement: changes in any of these bene t pension plan for its UK employees, net retirement bene t asset has shown assumptions can lead to a material which is closed to new entrants, and a signi cant volatility, as the valuation is movement in the net surplus.
The funded fide ned bene t pension scheme sensitive to changes in key assumptions increase decrease in scheme surplus in the Republic of Ireland, where no new such as the discount rate, in ation caused by a change in each of the key bene ts have accrued since 31 October and mortality estimates.
In addition, assumptions is set out below: 2013, therefore the key risk relates to the curtailment charges have been 2016 2017 UK scheme only.
recognised in relation to the closure m m of the fide ned bene t pension scheme, A decrease in the discount At 1 April 2017, the Group recorded a which occurred during the year, to rate of 0.25% 70 90 net retirement bene t asset of 702 future accrual.
A decrease in the in ation million 2016: 833 million, being the rate of 0.25% 20 20 net of scheme assets of 10,135 million A decrease in the average life 2016: 8,515 million, scheme liabilities of expectancy of one year 370 300 HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We evaluated the directors assessment of specialists, we considered the process We assessed the accounting treatment the assumptions made in the valuation of applied by the Groups actuaries, the scope applied to the schemes closure to the scheme liabilities, and evaluated the of the valuation performed and the key future accrual and the resulting information contained within the actuarial assumptions applied and evaluated their curtailment charge.
valuation reports for each scheme.
We benchmarked and performed Key observations assessed the design and implementation a sensitivity analysis on the key variables We are satis ed that all assumptions of controls in respect of the pension in the valuation model, including: applied in respect of the valuation scheme valuation process.
in ation rates: of the scheme assets and liabilities are We tested the membership census data appropriate.
mortality rates: and used in the valuation of the schemes and, with support from our own actuarial discount rates.
RISK MANUAL ADJUSTMENTS TO REPORTED REVENUE 6 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies in gift cards, vouchers and loyalty schemes The directors apply judgement in note 1 to the Financial Statements, the the directors apply an expected determining the provision required for groups revenue recognition policies redemption rate to the total value of gift returns based on actual sales data and require the directors to make a number of cards, vouchers and loyalty points in recent product return rates.
Returns adjustments and estimates in determining issue based on historic trends.
from online sales are commonly at the reported revenue for the period.
a higher level than traditional store returns customers are entitled to The most signi cant adjustments are: retailing, resulting in this judgement return most products up to 35 days becoming more signi cant in after purchase, giving rise to a risk that determining the level of provision sales recognised during the period will required.
be reversed in the next financial period.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We considered each revenue-impacting For the key assumptions used in the gift Key observations manual adjustment individually, and card and voucher, and loyalty scheme We are satis ed that the key assumptions assessed the appropriateness of the provisions, we assessed the historic rates applied in calculating the returns, gift assumptions and judgements applied of redemption and compared these to the card, voucher and loyalty scheme to each.
We assessed the design and directors judgements.
implementation of controls in respect of We assessed the appropriateness these revenue judgements, in addition to of the methodology and inputs used in testing the eff ectiveness of key revenue calculating the returns provision.
controls operating across the UK business.
89 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK ACCOUNTING FOR SUPPLIER REBATES 7 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies some annual volume-based rebates.
Judgement is required in determining in note 1 and note 17 to the Financial The majority of these contributions tend the period over which the reduction in cost Statements, the Group recognises a to be small in unit value but high in volume of sales should be recognised, requiring reduction in cost of sales as a result of and span relatively short periods of time, both a detailed understanding of the amounts receivable from suppliers, although these can be across the financial contractual arrangements themselves primarily comprising contributions in year end.
There are a small number of as well as complete and accurate source relation to promotions in the Food larger arrangements, which relate to data to apply the arrangements to.
business, strategic volume moves and multi-year periods.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We tested that amounts recognised were We performed revenue and margin Key observations accurate and recorded in the correct analysis to understand detailed trends The results of our testing were satisfactory.
period based on the contractual by product category in order to identify We consider the disclosure given around performance obligations by agreeing a apparent anomalies which may indicate supplier rebates to provide an accurate sample to individual supplier agreements.
Such understanding of the types of rebate We also conducted interviews with a anomalies were investigated to assess income received and the impact on range of buyers and trading managers.
whether they were indicative of a misthe statement of financial position as In addition, we circularised a sample of application of contractual terms or at 1 April 2017.
15 suppliers to test whether the other calculation errors.
We also tested a sample of rebates recognised pre and post-year end to test the completeness and accuracy of accrued supplier income at 1 April 2017.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We determined materiality for the Changes to pay and pensions We agreed with the Audit Committee that group to be 24.5 million.
156 million we would report to the Committee all audit diff erences in excess of 1 million 2016: We reported all audit diff erences in International store closures and 1 million as well as diff erences below that excess of 1m.
impairments 131 million threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of Strategic programmes UK organisation on qualitative grounds.
We also report to misstatement in the financial statements and logistics 14 million the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that makes it probable that the economic that we identi ed when assessing the overall The materiality applied by the component decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable presentation of the financial statements.
auditors see below ranged from person would be changed or in uenced.
2.5million to 22.5 million 2016: 2 million We use materiality both in planning the to 27 million, depending on the scale of scope of our audit work and in evaluating the components operations and our the results of our work.
assessment of risks speci c to each location.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 24.5 million 2016: 30 million, based on a calculation of 5% of pro t before tax MATERIALITY adjusted for certain adjusted items due to the nature and signi cance of these items.
Group materiality 176m The adjusted pro t used in our determination 24.5m of materiality was 479 million, which is 301 million higher than statutory pro t Component PBT materiality range before tax of 176 million.
The items we 24.5m Group materiality 2.5m to 22.5m excluded from our determination are listed below, and explained further in note 5 Audit Committee to the financial statements: reporting threshold 1m FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 90 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We performed a full scope audit on six international strategy.
Analytical review The most signi cant component of the components representing 97% of the procedures were completed for the current Group is its retail business in the United Groups revenue, 89% of the Groups year for those locations not subject to full Kingdom, which accounts for 89% 2016: pro t before tax and 85% of the Groups audit procedures.
90% of the Groups reported revenue of net assets.
10,622 million, and generates operating These components were selected to pro t of 253 million 2016: 627 million We continue to adopt a rotational provide an appropriate basis for undertaking which is off set by operating losses from the approach to visiting the signi cant audit work to address the risks of material international segment resulting in a Group locations of the Groups activities.
All other operating pro t of 253 million 2016: 584 wholly owned and joint venture businesses Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining million.
The Group audit team performs were subject to analytical review procedures.
an understanding of the Group and its the audit of the UK business without the Whilst we audit the revenues received by environment, including Group-wide involvement of a component team.
During the Group from franchise operations, which controls, and assessing the risks of the course of our audit, the Group audit account for 3% 2016: 3% of the Groups revenue, material misstatement at the group level.
team, conducted 12 distribution centre and we do not audit the underlying franchise A summary of the Groups retail operations 13 retail store visits in the UK to understand operations as part of our Group audit.
is set out below including the UK business.
the current trading performance and, at At the parent entity level we also tested certain locations, performed tests of Number of countries 2017 2016 the consolidation process and carried out internal controls and validated levels Wholly owned retail businesses 12 17 analytical procedures to con rm our of inventory held.
conclusion that there were no signi cant We operate a programme of planned visits Retail joint ventures 2 2 risks of material misstatement of the to signi cant locations so that a senior Retail franchise operations 31 33 aggregated financial information of the member of the Group audit team visits remaining components not subject to Website only territories 7 7 each of the components subject to a full a full audit.
Total 52 59 audit or speci c audit procedures at least once every two years, and the most includes two countries where wholly owned businesses signi cant of them at least once a year.
also operate Based on our assessment we focused our In addition to our programme of planned NET ASSETS Group audit scope primarily on the audit REVENUE PROFIT visits, we send detailed instructions to our BEFORE TAX work at six wholly owned locations: United component audit teams, include them in Full audit Specic audit Analytical Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Czech our team brie ngs, discuss their risk procedures procedures Republic, France, China and Hong Kong, and assessment, attend closing meetings, the joint venture in India.
All of these were and review their audit working papers.
Pro t subject to a full audit, with the exception of Before Net Revenue Tax Assets China where speci c audit procedures were Full audit 97% 89% 85% performed on certain signi cant balances.
In the prior year, Greece was subject to a Speci c audit full audit: however is subject to analytical procedures 2% 7% 8% review procedures in the current year Analytical procedures 1% 4% 7% following changes to the Groups OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, based on the work the information given in the Strategic In the light of the knowledge and undertaken in the course of the audit: Report and the Directors Report for the understanding of the group and the financial year for which the financial company and their environment the part of the Directors Remuneration statements are prepared is consistent obtained in the course of the audit, Report to be audited has been properly with the financial statements: and we have not identi ed any material prepared in accordance with the misstatements in the Strategic Report Companies Act 2006: the Strategic Report and the Directors or the Directors Report.
Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
91 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT As explained more fully in the Directors RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Responsibilities Statement, the directors Under the Listing Rules we are also required are responsible for the preparation of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are to review part of the Corporate Governance financial statements and for being satis ed required to report to you if, in our opinion: Statement relating to the companys that they give a true and fair view.
Our compliance with certain provisions of the we have not received all the information and responsibility is to audit and express an UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have explanations we require for our audit: or opinion on the financial statements in nothing to report arising from our review.
accordance with applicable law and adequate accounting records have not International Standards on Auditing been kept by the parent Company, or OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER UK and Ireland.
We also comply with returns adequate for our audit have not INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT International Standard on Quality Control 1 been received from branches not visited Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology by us: or UK and Ireland, we are required to report and tools aim to ensure that our quality to you if, in our opinion, information in the the parent Company financial statements control procedures are eff ective, Annual Report is: are not in agreement with the accounting understood and applied.
Our quality records and returns.
materially inconsistent with the controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and information in the audited financial We have nothing to report in respect independent partner reviews.
statements: or of these matters.
apparently materially incorrect based This report is made solely to the Companys DIRECTORS REMUNERATION members, as a body, in accordance with on, or materially inconsistent with, our Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also knowledge of the Group acquired in 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken required to report if in our opinion certain the course of performing our audit: or disclosures of directors remuneration have so that we might state to the Companys otherwise misleading.
members those matters we are required to not been made or the part of the Directors state to them in an auditors report and for Remuneration Report to be audited is not in In particular, we are required to consider no other purpose.
To the fullest extent agreement with the accounting records and whether we have identified any inconsistencies returns.
We have nothing to report arising between our knowledge acquired during permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than from these matters.
the audit and the directors statement the Company and the Companys members that they consider the Annual Report is fair, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses or for the opinions we have formed.
those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We con rm that we have not identi ed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
INDEPENDENCE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We are required to comply with the Financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about In addition, we read all the financial and Reporting Councils Ethical Standards the amounts and disclosures in the financial nonfinancial information in the Annual for Auditors and we con rm that we are statements suffi cient to give reasonable Report to identify material inconsistencies independent of the Group and we have assurance that the financial statements are with the audited financial statements and ful lled our other ethical responsibilities in free from material misstatement, whether to identify any information that is apparently accordance with those standards.
We also caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materially incorrect based on, or materially con rm we have not provided any of the assessment of: inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired prohibited non-audit services referred to by us in the course of performing the audit.
whether the accounting policies are in those standards.
If we become aware of any apparent appropriate to the Groups and the Companys material misstatements or inconsistencies circumstances and have been consistently we consider the implications for our report.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
IAN WALLER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 23 May 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
