AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AVEVA GROUP PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: AVEVA Group plcs financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited AVEVA Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Cash flow statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements Statement of Group accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Risk of inappropriate revenue recognition on software licence contracts, in particular: for the rental revenue stream, inappropriate application of the Group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 Revenue for licence revenue recognition, could result in, for example, revenue being recorded when performance conditions have not been satisfied, incorrect deferral of revenue for support and maintenance and other obligations: and for all revenue streams, inappropriate revenue recognition in relation to cut off, as revenue may not have been recognised in the correct accounting period.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further six components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 65% of adjusted pre-tax profit and 87% of revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 2.5m which represents approximately 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Risk of inappropriate revenue recognition on software licence contracts, in particular: For the rental revenue stream, inappropriate application of the Group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 Revenue for licence revenue recognition, could result in, for example, revenue being recorded when performance conditions have not been satisfied, incorrect deferral of revenue for support and maintenance and other obligations 94.2m 2016 90.6m.
For all revenue streams, inappropriate revenue recognition in relation to cut off, as revenue may not have been recognised in the correct accounting period 215.8m 2016 201.5m.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 44 to 46 : Accounting policies pages 113 to 120 : and note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 84 Our response to the risk We have reviewed and walked through the central process over the approval and recognition of revenue contracts across the Group.
We have walked through and assessed the design effectiveness of key management controls over data input and IT.
A summary of our key procedures are: We have performed rental licence revenue sample transaction testing at a local and Group level to ensure that revenue has been recorded in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 and has been appropriately recorded in the current year income statement or deferred on the balance sheet as appropriate.
This was achieved by testing a sample of contracts by: agreeing licence revenues to signed contracts or software licence agreements: agreeing the revenue to subsequent payment as evidence of collectability: checking evidence to support that software has been delivered to customers and prior to revenue recognition: reviewing contract terms for any conditions that would impact the timing of revenue recognition and in turn the completeness of deferred revenue: ensuring appropriate allocation of the fair value and recognition of revenue for other deliverables included within the contract: and assessing whether revenue has been recognised in line with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18.
We selected a sample of revenue journals and assessed the appropriateness of the journal by checking to supporting evidence and ensuring compliance with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18.
The sample selected was based on risk based criteria including but not limited to manual journal entries, those close to period end and postings that are inconsistent with roles and responsibilities.
We have performed an independent assessment as to whether the fair value rate of the support and maintenance is still applicable and that any non-standard contracts have an appropriate fair value rate applied.
To better understand the nature of the contractual relationships with customers, any contractual issues or any ongoing contractual obligations, we made enquiries of management outside the finance function, including the sales team and legal counsel to ensure that appropriate obligations and commitments had been recorded in the financial statements.
We have performed a test of detail on a sample of deferred revenue and accrued revenue items to ensure it is in accordance with the revenue recognition principles.
We have performed analytical review by revenue stream and geography to access unexpected trends and patterns that could be indicative of incorrect revenue recognition.
We have performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue items booked either side of year end to ensure that licence revenue was only recognised for software in the period where the contract was signed by both AVEVA and the customer prior to year end and the software has been made available prior to the year end.
As a primary team we gained oversight of the testing performed by the overseas teams through: Our review of their reporting deliverables where they are required to report on any exceptions identified from their testing and unusual contractual terms and conditions: Reviewing contracts meeting the Board review threshold: and Reviewing any contracts identified as having unusual terms or conditions by management and or overseas audit teams to confirm appropriate recognition of revenue in accordance with the contract accounting policy.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 12 locations, which covered 87% of the risk amount.
At the Group level we also performed the same revenue procedures for the rest of the locations at Group materiality, which covered the remaining 13% of the risk amount.
In addition, the Group audit team performed these same procedures to Group materiality for the remaining components to ensure 100% coverage of revenue.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We conclude that revenue recognised in the year, and deferred as at 31 March 2017, is materially correct on the basis of our procedures performed both at Group and by component audit teams.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The scope of our audit the specific scope category.
The audit Involvement with component teams Tailoring the scope scope of these components may not In establishing our overall approach Our assessment of audit risk, our have included testing of all significant to the Group audit, we determined evaluation of materiality and our accounts of the component but will the type of work that needed to be allocation of performance materiality have contributed to the coverage of undertaken at each of the components determine our audit scope for each significant testing for the Group.
At the by us, as the primary audit engagement entity within the Group.
Taken Group level we performed the revenue team, or by component auditors together, this enables us to form an audit procedures described above in from other EY global network firms opinion on the consolidated financial the risk section at Group materiality operating under our instruction.
We take into account size, on the rest of the components of the six full scope components, the risk profile, the organisation of the the Group which accounted for the audit was performed on three of these Group and effectiveness of Group-wide remaining 13% of the Groups revenue.
directly by the primary audit team.
controls and changes in the business The Group audit risk in relation to In addition, audit procedures were environment when assessing the level revenue recognition was subject also performed by the primary audit of work to be performed at each entity.
to audit procedures over the entire team for one of the six specific scope Group locations with revenue.
For the remaining eight In assessing the risk of material components, where the work was misstatement to the Group financial Of the remaining 18 components performed by component auditors, statements, and to ensure we had that together represent 35% of the we determined the appropriate adequate quantitative coverage of Groups adjusted pre-tax profit, none level of involvement to enable us to significant accounts in the financial are individually greater than 5% of the determine that sufficient audit evidence statements, of the 30 reporting Groups adjusted pre-tax profit.
For had been obtained as a basis for our components of the Group, we selected these components, as explained above, opinion on the Group as a whole.
12 components covering entities we performed the revenue procedures within the UK, France, Germany, at Group materiality as described in The Group audit team continued to Korea, USA, Brazil, India, China and the risk section and as a result covering follow a programme of planned visits Sweden, which represent the principal 100% of revenue and for the remaining that has been designed to ensure that business units within the Group.
accounts we performed analytical the Senior Statutory Auditor visits and review, testing of consolidation his representatives visits at least two Of the 12 components selected, we journals, intercompany elimination 2016 two of the components each performed an audit of the complete and foreign currency translation year.
During the current years audit financial information of six components recalculation to respond to any cycle, visits were undertaken by the full scope components which potential risks of material misstatement primary audit team to the component were selected based on their size or to the Group financial statements.
teams in China, USA and France 2016 risk characteristics.
For the remaining Germany and India.
These visits six components specific scope The chart below illustrates the involved, where appropriate, discussing components, we performed audit coverage obtained from the work the audit approach with the component procedures on specific accounts performed by our audit teams.
team and any issues arising from their within that component that we work, meeting with local and regional considered had the potential for the management, attending the planning Revenue greatest impact on the significant meeting in USA and the closing accounts in the financial statements meetings in China and France: and either because of the size of these reviewing key audit working papers on Full scope components 75% accounts or their risk profile.
The primary team interacted Specic scope regularly with the component teams components 12% The reporting components where Other procedures 13% where appropriate during various we performed audit procedures stages of the audit, reviewed key accounted for 65% 2016 105% of working papers and were responsible the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit Changes from the prior year for the scope and direction of the audit and 87% 2016 81% of the Groups USA has been designated a full scope process.
This, together with the Revenue.
For the current year, the full component this year, whereas it was additional procedures performed at scope components contributed 66% designated as a specific scope location Group level, gave us appropriate 2016 57% of the Groups adjusted in the prior year.
We have changed the evidence for our opinion on the Group pre-tax profit and 75% 2016 52% of designation as a the component has financial statements.
The specific scope increased in proportion of the total component contributed 1% loss Group.
For the current year we have 2016 48% of the Groups adjusted scoped out Malaysia and Japan from the pre-tax profit and 12% 2016 29% of specific scope category and scoped in the Groups Revenue.
The reduction in Sweden as part of our rotational scope coverage for adjusted pre-tax profit is for the smaller components due to loss making components within of the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 the audited financial statements and Starting basis Profit before tax 46.9m to identify any information that is Adjustments Exceptional items 2.4m apparently materially incorrect based Materiality Adjusted pre-tax profit 49.3m on, or materially inconsistent with, Materiality of 2.5m 5% of materiality basis the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Our application of materiality audit coverage over significant become aware of any apparent material We apply the concept of materiality in financial statement accounts is misstatements or inconsistencies we planning and performing the audit, in undertaken based on a percentage consider the implications for our report.
evaluating the effect of identified of total performance materiality.
The misstatements on the audit and in performance materiality set for each Respective responsibilities of forming our audit opinion.
component is based on the relative directors and auditor scale and risk of the component to the As explained more fully in the Directors Materiality Group as a whole and our assessment Responsibilities Statement set out on The magnitude of an omission or of the risk of misstatement at that page 70, the Directors are responsible misstatement that, individually or in component.
In the current year, the for the preparation of the financial the aggregate, could reasonably be range of performance materiality statements and for being satisfied expected to influence the economic allocated to components was 0.4m that they give a true and fair view.
Our decisions of the users of the financial to 1.0m 2016 0.5m to 0.9m.
responsibility is to audit and express statements.
Materiality provides a basis an opinion on the financial statements for determining the nature and extent Reporting threshold in accordance with applicable law and of our audit procedures.
An amount below which identified International Standards on Auditing UK misstatements are considered as being and Ireland.
Those standards require us We determined materiality for the clearly trivial.
to comply with the Auditing Practices Group to be 2.5 million 2016 2.2 Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
million, which is 5% 2016 5% of We agreed with the Audit Committee adjusted pre-tax profit because, in our that we would report to them all This report is made solely to the view, this is the most relevant measure uncorrected audit differences in excess Companys members, as a body, in of the underlying financial performance of 0.12m 2016 0.11m, which accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Group.
For 2017 we have used is set at 5% of planning materiality, of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit pre-tax profit adjusted for restructuring as well as differences below that work has been undertaken so that we costs 4.2m and the refund on threshold that, in our view, warranted might state to the Companys members consideration on the 8over8 acquisition reporting on qualitative grounds.
those matters we are required to state from shareholders 1.8m.
For 2016 to them in an auditors report and we used pre-tax profit adjusted for the We evaluate any uncorrected for no other purpose.
To the fullest aborted acquisition costs of Schneider misstatements against both the extent permitted by law, we do not Electric 10.2m and certain quantitative measures of materiality accept or assume responsibility to restructuring costs 3.8m.
discussed above and in light of other anyone other than the Company and relevant qualitative considerations in the Companys members as a body, Performance materiality forming our opinion.
for our audit work, for this report, or The application of materiality at for the opinions we have formed.
the individual account or balance Scope of the audit of the financial level.
It is set at an amount to statements Opinion on other matters prescribed reduce to an appropriately low level An audit involves obtaining evidence by the Companies Act 2006 the probability that the aggregate about the amounts and disclosures In our opinion: of uncorrected and undetected in the financial statements sufficient the part of the Directors misstatements exceeds materiality.
to give reasonable assurance that the Remuneration Report to be audited financial statements are free from has been properly prepared in On the basis of our risk assessments, material misstatement, whether accordance with the Companies Act together with our assessment of the caused by fraud or error.
This includes 2006: and Groups overall control environment, an assessment of: whether the based on the work undertaken in the our judgement was that performance accounting policies are appropriate to course of the audit: materiality was 75% 2016 75% of the Groups and the Parent Companys the information given in the our planning materiality, namely 1.9m circumstances and have been Strategic Report and the Directors 2016 1.7m.
We have set consistently applied and adequately Report for the financial year for performance materiality at this disclosed: the reasonableness of which the financial statements are percentage to ensure that the total significant accounting estimates prepared is consistent with the uncorrected and undetected audit made by the Directors: and the financial statements.
differences in all accounts did not overall presentation of the financial the Strategic Report and the exceed our materiality.
In addition, we read Directors Report have been all the financial and non-financial prepared in accordance with Audit work at component locations information in the Annual Report to applicable legal requirements.
for the purpose of obtaining identify material inconsistencies with AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 76 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 29, and longer-term viability, set out on page 29: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Marcus Butler Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading 23 May 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the AVEVA Group plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
