Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent auditors report to themembers of Pennon Group plc the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Our opinion on the financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European In our opinion: Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Pennon Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Companies Act 2006: and Company financial statements the financial statements give the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with atrue and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
forthe year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: What we have audited Pennon Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Balance sheet Balance sheet Statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity Cash flow statement Cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 44 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 44 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Valuation of non-current assets Viridor Valuation of landfill related provisions Viridor Revenue recognition across the Groups operations Valuation of the provision for doubtful debts SWW Completeness of provisions for uncertain tax positions and tax disclosures Group, including SWW & Viridor.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of three components The components where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items, 100% of Revenue and 96% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 12.5 million which represents approximately 5% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items.
106 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial asthose that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy: statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any theallocation of resources in the audit: and direction of the efforts opinion on these individual areas.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the Key observations communicated Risk Risk direction Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee Our procedures include: We concluded that the Valuation of non-current assets Viridor We read managements paper on impairment indicators assessment performed by Refer to the Audit Committee report page 63 : for other non-current assets, and evaluated whether management to identify any indicators have been appropriately considered and accounting policies page 119 : and note 17 of the impairment indicators is assessed judgements for evidence of management bias consolidated financial statements page 139 appropriate.
We concur with We compared the current year performance of Viridor managements conclusion that The net book value of Viridors property, plant and with the forecasts produced in the prior year to no indicators exist at the balance equipment is 1,121 million 2016:1,012 million, corroborate managements assessment in relation to sheet date.
indicators of impairment as included in note17.
The Group is required to We concluded that, based on We inspected other external publicly available review the carrying value of assets when the evidence obtained we concur information on sector developments, such as EU led impairment indicators are identified.
There is with the approach adopted and recycling targets, to corroborate managements risk that assumptions and judgements used by the charge recorded in the assessment relating to indicators of impairment management in determining whether there are any income statement.
We obtained managements analysis of the impairment indicators, or in performing impairment assetderecognition costs and discussed with reviews when required, could be susceptible to management the methods applied to allocate costs and assess enduring values of the assets management bias.
We tested a sample of supporting information, including During the year, as part of the Group-wideShared breakdowns of costs incurred, and documentation Services Review, a decision to rationalise systems relating to process design and specification, to evidence resulted in the derecognition of system related the key judgements made by management in calculating the asset derecognition charge assets and a related charge to the income We reperformed managements calculation ofthe statement of 9.5 million.
derecognition charge to test for arithmetical accuracy There is a risk that judgements used tocalculate We tested whether the amounts retained innon-current the derecognition charge could include assets reflected items that have acontinuing use in the management bias.
business by agreeing to supporting documentation, on a sample basis We agreed whether disclosures made, both in the respect of the consideration of impairment and of the derecognition charge, are in accordance with IFRS.
Our procedures include: We concluded that the Valuation of landfill related provisions We evaluated the forecast costs in the models, agreeing assumptions supporting the Viridor these to supporting evidence such as budgets and landfill related provisions reflect current performance managements best estimates, Refer to the Audit Committee report page 63 : We assessed the material estimates made forevidence informed by latest external and accounting policies page 119 : and note 32 of the of management bias, including agreeing anticipated internal data, and consider that consolidated financial statements page 157 cost savings to detailed plans and current performance the provisions are within an Landfill related provisions of 183.8 million 2016: We benchmarked the discount and inflation rates acceptable range.
applied, using our internal valuation experts to assist in 182.1 million are disclosed in note32 and consist our review of whether managements assumptions are of aftercare, restoration and remediation provisions.
within an acceptable range based on comparative Calculation of the aftercare provision involves marketdata We performed sensitivity analysis on these significant judgement in respect of the expected keyassumptions period of aftercare, the level of costs to be incurred We tested the aftercare, restoration and remediation and the discount rate to be used.
provision models, and verified thatthe models are Key areas of estimation for the restoration provision arithmetically accurate include the expected restoration costs, the void We compared the key assumptions used in the current models to those used in the prior year, and obtained space to be filled and timing of site closure.
evidence to corroborate that changes were appropriate.
Judgement over the remedial action required to This included obtaining evidence to support the impact comply with current environmental legislation is a of future planned technological changes key estimatefor the remediation provision.
We tested the appropriateness of journal entries impacting landfill related provisions, particularly those There is a risk that provisions could be misstated raised close to the balance sheet date.
due to the complexity of factors to be assessed and if assumptions applied by management are inappropriate, including the impact of any management bias.
107 Financial statements Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent auditors report to themembers of Pennon Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Risk direction Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee Our procedures include: South West Water Revenue recognition across the South West Water We concluded that the basis Groups operations We obtained an understanding of the processfor the of calculation of themeasured supply of measured services, meter reading and related income accrual is appropriate.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 63 : billing in order to challenge the completeness of Management assumptions in accounting policies page 119 : and note 2 of the adjustments toreflect the accrual or deferral of revenue respect of customer demand consolidated financial statements page 120 We tested key controls linked to system generated arewithin an acceptable range.
information relating to the estimation process for The Groups material revenue streams relate to the Amounts identified as measured revenue provision of water and sewerage services by South advancebilling have been We compared the accrued income to bills raisedpost West Waterand revenue generated from correctly recorded.
year end for a sample of customers, and compared therenewable energy, recycling and managements history of estimating the accrued income wastemanagement services provided byViridor.
balance to billsraised in the subsequent year ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud We performed a walkthrough of the process for relating to revenue recognition.
For the Group, unmeasured revenue and the annual billing cycle given targets associated to financial performance We performed controls testing related to the calculation of system generated billing for unmeasured revenue and pressures to meet market expectations, there We obtained details of the billing runs in February and is an incentive to overstate revenue.
This risk over March and assessed whether there were any other billing revenue recognition specifically arises in the runs for unmeasured revenue that should be excluded following judgemental areas, where there is from 2016 17 total revenue opportunity to overstate revenue: We corroborated the key assumptions andestimates made by management in recognisingrevenue, by South West Water obtaining internal andexternal data on factors that Income from measured water services requires influence demand from customers an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges We tested whether revenue was recognised atthe at the year end.
This is calculated using a correct time in accordance with IFRS combination of system generated information, We performed analytical procedures by comparing based on previous customer volume usage, revenue balances for the year against expectation and together with management judgements as to obtaining support forsignificant variances the likely impact onusage of factors such as We tested a sample of transactions to underlying bills for recent weather patterns.
The accrued both types of revenue incomebalance at 31 March 2017 is 72.2 million In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries impacting revenue, focusing on 2016: 67.8 million non-system postings and those raised in the last two For unmeasured revenue, the bills foreach weeks of the year.
calendar year are raised in advance for the next financial year.
There is a risk that revenues are recorded in the incorrect period, iftheadvance billing element is notproperly excluded and carried forward in the balance sheet.
108 Key observations communicated Risk Risk direction Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee Viridor Viridor Viridor We compared the key assumptions and estimates to We concluded that revenue has Calculations of accrued income on waste those made by management inrecognising revenue been recorded inthe correct management contracts and powergen in the prior year.
Weanalysed revenue trends and accounting period, accrued revenue to be received involve estimation corroborated unusual movements.
We obtained income hasbeen appropriately by management customer confirmations for a sample of revenue recognised, and IFRIC 12 Accounting for revenue from long-term service For material items within accrued income we appropriately applied.
reperformed the calculation of the income thathad been concession arrangements under IFRIC12 earned on waste management contracts and powergen requires revenue to be recognised based on revenue to confirm theaccuracy of the accrued income appropriate assessment of the margin earned recorded bymanagement during the construction period and during the We tested the application of IFRIC12 in respect of operational period.
The determination of the construction revenue recognised and whethermargins margin allocated during the different phases used to recognise revenue arereasonable based on the of each service concession may involve models used for each contract and comparing the margins to those generated in prior years and to latest management judgement projections for future years Recognising revenue in the correct period for We agreed whether the revenue recognition policies invoices raised close to the balance sheet date adopted comply with IFRSs may involve management judgement.
We performed cut off testing of invoices raised prior to and after the balance sheet date to ensure revenue has been recognised in the correct period In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries impacting revenue, particularly those raised close to thebalance sheet date.
Our procedures include: We concluded that the doubtful Valuation of the provision for doubtful debt provision iswithin an We performed a walkthrough of the process for debts South West Water acceptable range and reflects calculating the bad debt provision and assessed the recent history of collection of Refer to the Audit Committee report page 63 : design effectiveness of key controls.
accounting policies page 119 : and note 22 of the We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls consolidated financial statements page 145 over the integrity of data andthe report utilised to generate the ageing and categorisation of debt within As shown in note 22, there is a provision of South West Waters billing system 102.6 million 2016: 95.6 million at the year We tested historic data on collection rates andevaluated end against gross trade debtors of 326.1 million how this data was used in thepreparation of the bad 2016: 303.6 million.
debt provision We corroborated the assumptions used by management The South West Water provision is calculated in determining the amounts provided against the using a combination of systemgenerated different categories and age of debt, by comparing these information on historicdebt recovery rates and assumptions tohistoric collection rates and by considering the impact of changes in the methods managements judgement of the futurelikely adopted operationally by management to collect debt, recovery rates.
and in the external environment During the year management has performed We utilised collection information over the past three a data mining exercise to refresh the detailed years, to determine a range of the likely ultimate collection of debts existing at the balance sheet date and collection data bycategory of debt.
compared this to the provision recorded by management, There is a risk that the assumptions used by including assessing assumptions for evidence of management in calculating the bad debt provision management bias may be susceptible to management bias and the We tested the appropriateness of journal entries and adjustments impacting the doubtful debt provision, valuation of theprovision against trade receivables particularly those raised close tothe balance sheet date.
109 Financial statements Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent auditors report to themembers of Pennon Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Risk direction Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee Our procedures include: We concluded that the Completeness of provisions for uncertain We inspected the latest correspondence between the Grouphasrecorded an tax positions and related tax disclosures Group and HMRC appropriate provision for Group, including SWW & Viridor We read legal advice or opinions management was uncertain tax positions.
obtained in the period in relation to uncertain tax We concluded that the tax Refer to the Audit Committee report page 63 : positions, in order to verify whether the level of provision amounts and disclosures accounting policies page 119 : and note 27 of the is based on uptodate legal advice in response to intheAnnual Report and consolidated financial statements page 148 HMRCschallenges Accountsfor the year ended We obtained an updated view from our internal The Groups current tax liability of 26.8 million 31March 2017 are appropriate.
taxspecialists as to HMRCs current position on 2016: 37.1 million shown in note27, includes openmatters 18.6 million 2016: 37.1million in respect of open We assessed the level of provision maintained for tax computations relating to prior years, where uncertain tax positions, in light of the settlement proposal liabilities are yet to be agreed withHM Revenue & agreed with HMRC and consideration of other open uncertain tax positions Customs HMRC.
We tested whether the tax accounting and disclosures Pennon has a number of open periods with HMRC innote 9 and 27 complied with therequirements of as a result of on-going enquiries into the IAS12Income Taxes interpretation of tax legislation regarding We read the tax disclosures in the Annual Report and transactions undertaken by the Group.
Accounts and evaluated the adequacy of these.
In prior periods, significant management judgement has been required in estimating tax expected to be paid in respect of these open periods.
However, during the year, the Group has reached resolution with HMRC on a number of areas.
This has reduced the level of uncertainty over the year end tax liability and therefore the risk of material misstatement has reduced.
110 In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material Materiality misstatement in relation to valuation of goodwill.
In the current year, The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually we concluded the likelihood of material misstatement has reduced or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence asa further year of experience has provided management with more the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
confidence that the business plan will be met, and the impairment Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent testis less sensitive to changes in assumptions.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 12.5 million 2016: The scope of our audit 10million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before taxation before Tailoring the scope non-underlying items.
We believe that profit before taxation before Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our non-underlying items provides us with an appropriate measure of the allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope underlying performance of the Group.
We excluded non-underlying foreach entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables items on the basis that these are infrequent in occurrence and profit ustoform an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
before taxation after non-underlying items is not indicative of the Wetakeinto account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group underlying performance of the Group.
We also note that market and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business andanalyst commentary on the performance of the Group uses the environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results same measure.
We therefore, considered profit before taxation before when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
non-underlying items to be the most relevant performance metric on In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial which to base our materiality calculation.
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of Starting basis Reported profit before taxation 210.5 million significant accounts in the financial statements, of the five reporting 2016: 206.3 million.
components of the Group, we performed an audit of the complete Adjustments Non-underlying items increase basis by financial information of three components full scope components 39.5million 2016: 5.0 million.
which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
Materiality Totals 250.0 million 2016: 211.3 million profit Thesecomponents include Pennon Group plc, Viridor and South West before taxation before non-underlying items.
Water, and represent the principal business units within the Group.
Materiality of 12.5 million 5% of profit before taxation before non-underlying items.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups profit before taxation before Performance materiality non-underlying items, 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups Revenue The application of materiality at the individual account or balance and96% 2016: 95% of the Groups Total assets.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level The remaining two components, individually and in aggregate, theprobability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected represent less than 1% of the Groups profit before taxation before misstatements exceeds materiality.
For these components, which include Peninsula On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment Insurance and Peninsula Leasing, we performed other procedures, ofthe Groups overall control environment, our judgement was including analytical review procedures, testing of consolidation thatperformance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning journals and intercompany eliminations for each component to materiality, namely 9.4 million 2016: 7.5 million.
This is based on respond to potential risks of material misstatement to the Group ourassessment of the Groups internal control environment and the financial statements.
extent and nature of audit findings identified in the prior period and isconsistent with the prior year.
Changes from the prior year There were two changes in scope from the prior year.
The first was Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit that Bournemouth Water, which was acquired by Pennon Group plc in coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken April 2015, has merged with South West Water and therefore balances based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance are included within the South West Water component, which was materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and designated as full scope for the current year audit.
The second change risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment was that the scope determined for Peninsula Insurance was changed ofthe risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, from review scope to other procedures, reflecting the fact that, with therange of performance materiality allocated to components was the growth in Group activities, including profit before taxation before 4.4million to 8.4 million 2016: 1.5 million to 7.1million.
non-underlying items, this component is less than 1% of the Group.
Reporting threshold Involvement with component teams An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as We perform audit procedures for the Group and its components at the being clearly trivial.
South West Water and Viridor locations.
The audit teams of Pennon We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Group plc and South West Water are led by the same audit partner.
alluncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.6 million 2016: Aseparate team audits Viridor and is led by a separate audit partner.
0.5million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well The Group team interacted regularly with all teams during various asdifferences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted stages of the audit, including review of key working papers, review reportingon qualitative grounds.
ofwork performed to address the risks of material misstatement andattendance at key meetings with management.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light Our application of materiality ofother relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing theaudit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on Scope of the audit of the financial statements theaudit and in forming our audit opinion.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to theGroups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been 111 Financial statements Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Independent auditors report to themembers of Pennon Group plc continued consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, ofsignificant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the allthe financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report companys members those matters we are required to state to them andAccounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act setout on page 103, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 2006: and of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: trueand fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been Standards for Auditors.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions to report.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: andwhether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 103, and longer-term viability, set out on page 51: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
112 We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have nothing material to add or to draw ISAs UK and Ireland reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carriedout a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, futureperformance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any  or assumptions.
Debbie OHanlon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading 23 May 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Pennon Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented onthe web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
