Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is Overview unmodified Materiality: 17.5m 2016: 16.8m We have audited the financial statements of group financial Caledonia Investments plc for the year ended 31 0.9% 2016: 1.0% of total assets statements as a March 2017 set out on pages 74 to 99.
In our whole opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair Coverage 100% 2016: 100% of group profit view of the state of the groups and of the before tax parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Recurring risks Valuation of unlisted the group financial statements have been investments properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
70 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, is valuation of unlisted investments.
As in 2016, we continue to perform procedures over the carrying value of investments listed on recognised stock exchanges.
However, as there is little judgement and a very low risk of misstatement, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
The risk Our response Valuation of unlisted investments Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Independent 972.1m: 2016: 954.7m 49.9% 2016: 57.0% of the Control design: Documenting and assessing the design and groups total assets by value is implementation and operational effectiveness of the investment Refer to page 42 Audit Committee held in investments where no valuation processes and controls: Report, page 80 accounting policy and quoted market price is available.
Unlisted investments comprise Control observation: Attendance at bi-annual Challenge investments in equity, investment Committee meetings and Audit Committee meetings where we property and funds.
assessed the Audit Committees and Challenge Committees challenge and approval of unlisted investment valuations: Unlisted investments are auditors report measured at fair value, which is Historical Comparisons: Assessment of investment realisations established in accordance with in the period, comparing actual investment sales proceeds to International Private Equity and prior year-end valuations to understand the reasons for significant Venture Capital Valuations variance and determine whether they are indicative of bias and Guidelines by using error in the groups approach to valuations.
measurements of value such as to the members of Caledonia Investments plc only price of recent orderly Methodology choice : In the context of observed industry best transactions, earnings multiples practice and the provisions of the Internal Private Equity and and net assets and valuing fund Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, we challenged the interests.
There is a significant appropriateness of the valuation basis selected.
We also involved risk over the application of these our own property valuation specialist to critically assess the judgements in the valuation and methodology for compliance with the RICS Valuation Professional Opinions and conclusions therefore one of the key areas Standards the Red Book and IFRS.
that our audit focused on.
arising from our audit Our valuations experience: Challenging the investment Investment properties, though manager on key judgments affecting investee company held through investee companies, valuations, such as discount factors, and the choice of benchmark are subject to annual independent for earnings multiples.
We compared key underlying financial data valuation and measured inputs to external sources such as financial information of accordingly.
The fair value comparable businesses, the investee company audited accounts requires significant judgement and management information as applicable.
Our opinion on the financial statements is over the choice of valuation Overview assumptions around sustainability of earnings based on the plans unmodified methodology to apply, as well as of investee companies and whether these are achievable and we significant estimation, in particular Materiality: 17.5m 2016: 16.8m obtained an understanding of existing and prospective investee We have audited the financial statements of over the key assumptions of the group financial company cash flows to understand whether borrowings can be estimated rental value and the Caledonia Investments plc for the year ended 31 0.9% 2016: 1.0% of total assets serviced or refinancing may be required.
Our work included statements as a yield.
The key assumptions will March 2017 set out on pages 74 to 99.
In our consideration of events which occurred subsequent to the year whole be impacted by a number of opinion: end up until the date of this audit report.
factors including location, quality the financial statements give a true and fair Coverage 100% 2016: 100% of group profit and condition of the building and External Valuers credentials: For the investment property tenant credit rating.
Investment in view of the state of the groups and of the before tax valuations, we obtained the valuations performed by the external properties included in unquoted parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 valuer and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity pool amounted to 76.1m 2016: Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 of the valuer by analysing their valuation report using our own and of the groups profit for the year then 69.3m.
Our valuation specialists, also considered ended: the appropriateness of the external valuations and inherent Recurring risks Valuation of unlisted the group financial statements have been assumptions by comparing the assumptions to externally derived investments data.
properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Comparing valuations: Where a recent transaction has been adopted by the European Union IFRSs as used to value any holding, we obtained an understanding of the adopted by the EU : circumstances surrounding the transaction and whether it was considered to be on an arms-length basis and suitable as an input the parent company financial statements have into a valuation.
We also assessed whether changes or events been properly prepared in accordance with subsequent such as market or entity specific factors would imply IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in a change in value.
For the valuation of fund interests, we obtained accordance with the provisions of the and agreed the latest reported net asset values from the fund managers.
Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in Assessing transparency: Consideration of the appropriateness, accordance with the requirements of the in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures in respect of unlisted investments and the disclosure Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group of changing one or more inputs to reasonably possible alternative financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS valuation assumptions.
71 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017  to the members of Caledonia Investments plc only Group profit before tax Group revenue 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for Group financial statements as a whole was set at 17.5m 2016: 16.8m, determined with 100% 100% reference to a benchmark of total group assets, of 2016: 100% 2016: 100% which it represents 0.9% 2016: 1.0%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.88m 2016: 0.84m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting qualitative grounds.
The group audit team performed the audit of the Group total assets group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total group revenue, group profit before tax and total group assets.
100% 2016: 100% Key: Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 72 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the the parent company financial statements and the part Companies Act 2006 is unmodified of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and In our opinion: returns: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified audited has been properly prepared in accordance with by law are not made: or the Companies Act 2006: and we have not received all the information and the information given in the Strategic Report and the explanations we require for our audit.
Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: course of the audit of the financial statements and from the directors statements, set out on page 66, in reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and we have not identified material misstatements in those the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on reports: and pages 36 to 39, relating to the companys compliance in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of responsibilities.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors viability statement on pages 66, Scope and responsibilities concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities expectations of the groups continuing in operation over Statement set out on page 68, the directors are responsible for the 3 years to 2020: or the preparation of the financial statements and for being the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the concerning the use of the going concern basis of scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the accounting.
Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters to the Companys members as a body and is subject to on which we are required to report by exception important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be audit, we have identified other information in the annual read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, report that contains a material inconsistency with either that the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Thomas Brown Senior Statutory Auditor information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor strategy: or Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit London E145GL committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 25 May 2017 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 73 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
