Statement of Directors Responsibilities Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report: the Directors Report: Report on the Group financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Our opinion In our opinion, Burberry Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted year then ended: by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that European Union: and they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017: subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: respectively: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the Group Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
the Analysis of Net Cash as at 31 March 2017: and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group explanatory information.
and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our audit approach Context The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Burberry Group plc is a British global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler listed on the London Stock Exchange.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys position and performance, business model The Group operates globally across over 30 countries.
The context for our audit has been set against the Groups structure and and strategy.
strategy as well as the more challenging trading conditions.
This was particularly relevant for the work performed on inventory provisioning, impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 68 to 69 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The area of focus where work was primarily performed by component teams was the assessment of inventory provisioning.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, The judgements in respect of the completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures, impairment of fragrance and and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: beauty licence intangible asset, impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions and presentation of non-GAAP measures are primarily taken at a Group level.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Overview Materiality the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Overall Group materiality: 19 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation 2016: 20 million.
Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Audit Of the Groups 80 reporting units we identified six reporting units which, in our view, require a full scope audit of their financial Scope information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These reporting units are located in the UK, China, Hong Kong and Korea and two are located in the US.
We used local teams These statements were approved by the Board on 17 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: in these countries to perform those full scope audits relating to the relevant reporting units.
The Group audit team visited reporting units in the UK, US, China and Hong Kong during the course of the year in order to attend local management meetings.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team held regular meetings with all reporting units at all stages of the audit to direct and supervise the work of these local teams and to ensure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
They also reviewed the working papers for financially significant reporting units.
The six components where we performed full scope audits represented 75% 2016: 76% of Group revenue and 79% 2016: 89% of profit before taxation.
Sir John Peace Julie Brown Areas of Inventory provisioning.
Chairman Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer Focus Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions.
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures.
Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
118 119 119 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically assessed the to changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency of provisioning in line the level of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions with policy and the rationale for the recording of specific provisions in inventory as at 31 March 2017: 505.3m: refer to note 16 to the context of managements key strategies.
Judgement is required to assess the In doing so we tested the provision calculations and determined that appropriate level of provisioning for items which may be ultimately they appropriately took into account the ageing profile of inventory, destroyed or sold below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer the process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical demand particularly in light of the current challenging trading loss rates.
conditions and the one label strategy.
Such judgements include As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and managements expectations for future sales and inventory raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with liquidation plans.
policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well as managements expectations for future sales and inventory management plans.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions The Group has a material operational asset base which may be We tested managements assessment of indicators for both vulnerable to impairment in the event of trading performance being impairment and onerous lease provisions taking into consideration below expectations.
the challenging trading conditions in some territories, and are satisfied that they appropriately took into account internal and The value-in-use models used to determine the amount of any external impairment indicators, including the trading performance impairment charge are based on assumptions including revenue of each store.
forecasts, gross and operating margins, which are store specific, and discount rates, which are country specific refer to note 13 to the We tested the value-in-use models for assets where an impairment financial statements.
Such stores may be located in both emerging trigger or potential requirement for an onerous lease provision markets, which are typically more volatile than developed markets, has been identified, including challenging management forecasts as well as more established economies such as the US, where the and other assumptions including discount rates and long term Group is working towards consolidating its position within the market.
growth rates, and found that these assumptions were reasonable.
The same judgements are used in determining whether an onerous In particular we focused on the forecasts for sales growth and are lease provision is required and in calculating the appropriate amount satisfied that they reflect reasonable expectations for each store, of the provision.
In addition, judgement is required in assessing taking into account the maturity of each store, the market in which whether there are any alternative uses for stores which may affect it is located and managements specific plans for improving the amount of onerous lease provision required.
Managements assessment resulted in the recognition of a Given the judgement inherent in the impairment and onerous net impairment charge for the year ended 31 March 2017 of lease provision calculations, particularly relating to revenue 23.0m 2016: 45.3m, including 15.3m 2016: 24.2m for growth assumptions, management has disclosed a sensitivity store impairments and 7.7m 2016: 21.1m for onerous leases.
analysis in the financial statements refer to note 13 to the financial statements.
Having re-performed the sensitivity calculations and We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement considered whether any other sensitivities might be more appropriate, involved in determining key assumptions such as future sales we are satisfied that the financial statements adequately disclose the growth, profit margins and discount rates, and the magnitude potential risk of future impairment if the performance of the stores of the assets under consideration and the lease obligations.
with indicators of impairment do not meet managements expectations.
120 120 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The directors are required to apply significant judgement when Through discussions with management, we understood the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of related accounting policy for provisioning against tax exposures.
jurisdictions refer to notes 9, 14 and 30 to the financial statements.
Based on this, we assessed the extent to which provisions are In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Given the inherent uncertainty over the outcome of pending tax supported by underlying circumstances and determined that estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits assessments, significant judgement is applied by the directors they are being made on a consistent basis to previous years.
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of in estimating the final outcome of such tax assessments.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and the financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a judgement in estimating the amount of provision required, which provision, by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, is increased by the number of jurisdictions in which the Group latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific operates.
As noted in note 30 to the financial statements, the authorities and advisors, and by obtaining written responses Group is subject to tax audits and claims in a number of jurisdictions.
areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our from the Group's external advisors on the material tax exposures.
procedures should be read in this context.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently Inventory provisioning addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically assessed the reflected the latest developments.
to changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency of provisioning in line the level of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions with policy and the rationale for the recording of specific provisions in Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset inventory as at 31 March 2017: 505.3m: refer to note 16 to the context of managements key strategies.
In the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group reacquired the licence We challenged managements assessment of fragrance and beauty the financial statements.
Judgement is required to assess the In doing so we tested the provision calculations and determined that to sell fragrance and beauty products, resulting in the recognition of performance by comparing actual results to forecasts.
Having appropriate level of provisioning for items which may be ultimately they appropriately took into account the ageing profile of inventory, a fragrance and beauty licence intangible of 70.9m, which was compared the Groups future plans and forecasts for these products destroyed or sold below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer the process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to actual results and market conditions, we are satisfied that it is demand particularly in light of the current challenging trading loss rates.
The licence was fully impaired during the appropriate to impair the fragrance and beauty licence intangible.
Such judgements include period, resulting in a charge of 18.6m.
As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and We also considered the related disclosures and are satisfied that the managements expectations for future sales and inventory raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with We have focused on this area due to the size of the fragrance and financial statements adequately disclose the impairment.
policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well beauty licence intangible and the inherent judgement involved in as managements expectations for future sales and inventory forming a valuation of the intangible, and the fact that future sales management plans.
and profit forecasts for this part of the business were considered to no longer support the recoverability of the asset during the period.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures The Group has a material operational asset base which may be We tested managements assessment of indicators for both The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements recognition of adjusting items and the vulnerable to impairment in the event of trading performance being impairment and onerous lease provisions taking into consideration regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying measures related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are satisfied below expectations.
the challenging trading conditions in some territories, and are to explain business performance, and the classification of items as that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with prior years, in satisfied that they appropriately took into account internal and The value-in-use models used to determine the amount of any adjusting, especially where they recur each year.
There is a risk that line with managements accounting policies and adequately explained external impairment indicators, including the trading performance impairment charge are based on assumptions including revenue the use of such measures means that the overall presentation of in the financial statements.
forecasts, gross and operating margins, which are store specific, results is not fair, balanced and understandable.
We noted no instances of inappropriate or inconsistent presentation and discount rates, which are country specific refer to note 13 to the We tested the value-in-use models for assets where an impairment In the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group has identified five of results and non-GAAP measures.
Specifically, we are satisfied that financial statements.
Such stores may be located in both emerging trigger or potential requirement for an onerous lease provision adjusting items, being the charge relating to the fragrance and beauty non-GAAP measures are adequately explained and reconciled to markets, which are typically more volatile than developed markets, has been identified, including challenging management forecasts licence intangible asset, restructuring costs, revaluation of deferred GAAP measures.
as well as more established economies such as the US, where the and other assumptions including discount rates and long term consideration liability, costs relating to the transfer of the Beauty Group is working towards consolidating its position within the market.
operations and the put option liability finance charge refer to note 6 The same judgements are used in determining whether an onerous In particular we focused on the forecasts for sales growth and are to the financial statements.
lease provision is required and in calculating the appropriate amount satisfied that they reflect reasonable expectations for each store, of the provision.
In addition, judgement is required in assessing taking into account the maturity of each store, the market in which How we tailored the audit scope whether there are any alternative uses for stores which may affect it is located and managements specific plans for improving We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial the amount of onerous lease provision required.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, Managements assessment resulted in the recognition of a Given the judgement inherent in the impairment and onerous and the industry in which the Group operates.
net impairment charge for the year ended 31 March 2017 of lease provision calculations, particularly relating to revenue 23.0m 2016: 45.3m, including 15.3m 2016: 24.2m for growth assumptions, management has disclosed a sensitivity The Group operates across three regions and is structured across two segments, being retail wholesale and licensing.
store impairments and 7.7m 2016: 21.1m for onerous leases.
analysis in the financial statements refer to note 13 to the financial The financial statements are a consolidation of 80 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding statements.
Having re-performed the sensitivity calculations and We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement considered whether any other sensitivities might be more appropriate, companies across the two segments.
involved in determining key assumptions such as future sales we are satisfied that the financial statements adequately disclose the growth, profit margins and discount rates, and the magnitude potential risk of future impairment if the performance of the stores of the assets under consideration and the lease obligations.
Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which entities were required to report full-scope audit opinions with indicators of impairment do not meet managements expectations.
to us having considered the relative significance of each entity to the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the overall coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated financial statements.
We identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted for 75% 2016: 76% of Group revenue and 79% 2016: 89% of Group profit before taxation.
Of these, three reporting units have been determined to be financially significant based on their contribution to Group revenue or profit before taxation.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to the consolidation, taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
120 121 121 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the London and Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We sent detailed instructions to all in scope component audit teams, which included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
Our Group engagement teams involvement also included various site visits and component auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 19 million 2016: 20 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and hence profit before taxation has been selected as the benchmark.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.5 million and 16.0 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2016: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
122 122 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group ISAs UK & Ireland reporting through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the London and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or exceptions to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the course of performing our audit: or reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network otherwise misleading.
firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level The statement given by the directors on page 118, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and exceptions to report.
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We sent provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and detailed instructions to all in scope component audit teams, which included communication of the areas of focus above and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Our Group engagement teams involvement also included various site visits and component The section of the Annual Report on page 83, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Materiality or liquidity of the Group The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and in relation to: extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The directors confirmation on page 61 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its material to add or Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing Overall Group materiality 19 million 2016: 20 million.
material to add or How we determined it to draw attention to.
The directors explanation on page 61 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and hence profit before taxation has been selected as the benchmark.
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period material to add or Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to to draw attention to.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.5 million and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 16.0 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
less than our overall Group materiality.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review 2016: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and Going concern considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in specified by law are not made.
operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
However, because Corporate Governance Statement not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Consistency of other information Our responsibilities and those of the directors Companies Act 2006 opinion As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 118, the directors are responsible for In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may We have nothing to report in this respect.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
122 123 123 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor, for and on behalf of  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London, 17 May 2017 124 124
