Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our opinion In our opinion: NEX Group plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and Company statements of cash flow for the year then ended: the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 10.0 million which represents 5% of continuing and discontinued profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptionalitems.
Materiality We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of three financially significant business reporting units covering the continuing business and an audit of the income statements of six reporting units covering the discontinued business.
Additional business reporting units were selected to increase the level of audit evidence for each account Audit scope balance, on which a combination of controls testing and substantive tests of detail were undertaken.
Business reporting units that are not subject to specific audit procedures are still subject to auditwork on entity level controls and Group level analytical review procedures over their financial information.
The areas of focus for our audit to which we allocated the greatest amount of our resources and effort were: Areas of focus sale of IGBB: presentation and disclosure of exceptional items: goodwill impairment assessment: and fraud in revenue recognition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked atwhere the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on pages 74 and 75.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 73 Governance and directors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Sale of IGBB On 30 December 2016, the Group completed the disposal of the IGBB We reviewed the management analysis for the accounting treatment business to Tullett Prebon plc, now renamed TP ICAP plc.
of the disposal and were satisfied that this was appropriate.
On the income statement, the profit of IGBB for the period up to the We assessed the accuracy and completeness of the IGBB disposal group.
disposal, net of tax, has been presented separately on the face of the We also gained comfort over the consideration received and tested the net income statement as a discontinued operation.
asset reconciliation in relation to the IGBB transaction and determined that the gain on disposal was not materially misstated.
The gain on disposal of 1.2bn is presented in the income statement as part of exceptional items.
The measurement of gain on sale of a disposal We tested the split of reserves between IGBB and NEX and noted that it group is inherently complex, particularly when it encompasses a large was appropriate.
number of entities with material amounts involved.
We assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements and noted that they were compliant with the relevant accounting standards.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 5.
Presentation and disclosure of exceptional items Assessment of the Groups performance generally focuses on We understood managements basis of determining whether or not trading profit, being operating profit before acquisition and disposal revenue and expenses in relation to transactions fell within the costs and exceptional items.
classification of exceptional items as described in the accounting policy.
The gain on sale of IGBB net of costs of sale has been treated as an We selected a sample of revenue and expenses that had been identified as exceptional item.
In addition, NEX Group plc incurred various other exceptional items and, based on our understanding of the accounting policy transaction costs, principally the costs of contractors and temporary staff and the transaction, formed our own judgement as to whether they were which have also been classified as exceptional items.
There is a risk that appropriately presented and disclosed in exceptional items, with no costs could be incorrectly classified between the columns of the financial material exceptions noted.
statements, with an impact on the disclosed underlying We examined the Groups disclosure in respect of exceptional items, and business performance.
agreed that the narrative provided appropriately reflected the nature of the underlying expenses.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, notes 4 and 5.
Goodwill impairment assessment This was an area of focus due to the size of the goodwill balance and We examined the forecasts of future cash flow prepared by management given the judgement required as part of the directors assessment of the by comparing them to the latest board approved budgets.
We also tested carrying value of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, about the historical budgeting accuracy by comparing current year results with the future results of the business and the discount rate applied to the future equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast.
Our testing did not cash flow forecasts.
give any indication of impairment.
We assessed the directors key assumptions for discount and long-term growth rates using our knowledge of the business, future strategy and past performance.
We compared rates used to past results and external data where available.
We also performed sensitivity analyses on the key assumptions.
We found no material exceptions in these tests.
We also reviewed the disclosures made in relation to goodwill and found them to be appropriate.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 15.
74 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We focused on the accuracy and timing of the recognition and the We tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the presentation in the income statement of: Group and its financial ledgers and journal entries posted to revenue accounts to help identify any unusual or irregular items.
We then performed transaction and access fees from the NEX Markets business: testing over these amounts to ensure that they should be recognised as fees from the provision of services in the NEX Optimisation revenue.
No exceptions were found in the sample selected.
business: and commissions from the IGBB business.
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy and timing of These revenue streams are dependent on the fulfilment of contractual commissions and fees recognised in the financial statements.
obligations which may involve subjective estimation with regard to stage We also tested the timing of revenue recognition, assessing whether the completion and are subject to manual intervention which could result in necessary contractual obligations had been fulfilled by taking a sample of revenue being recognised inappropriately.
revenue transactions and agreeing them back to contracts and did not find any exceptions.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 1.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, takinginto account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Following the sale of the IGBB business during the year the Group reports its operating results and financial position along three business lines, being NEXMarkets, NEX Optimisation and Other.
The results for the year also include nine months of revenue and expenses from the IGBB business disclosed asdiscontinued operations.
In establishing the overall approach to the audit we identified three reporting units across the NEX Markets, NEX Optimisation and Other functions that, in ourview, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further eight reporting units either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
To audit the results of the discontinued IGBB business we identified six reporting units where we performed an audit of their revenue and expenses in view oftheir size and a further two reporting units where specific procedures were performed on certain balances and transactions.
Where the work was performed by component auditors under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained to support an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group engagement team visited the UK and US components, being the two most significant countries in the Group.
The 19 reporting units accounted for 94% of Group total continuing and discontinued income and 89% of Group total assets.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 75 Governance and directors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group 10.0 million 2016: 10.1 million.
materiality How we 5% of continuing and discontinued profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
determined it Rationale for We based materiality on continuing and discontinued profit before tax, acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
benchmark applied The acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items are significant and expected to be discrete and non-recurring in nature and thus are not considered to be indicative of the underlying performance of the business.
The removal of these items also mitigates undue volatility in determining our materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2016: 500,000 as well asmisstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or todraw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
76 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wearerequired to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report.
We have nothing to reportinthisrespect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe Group andtheCompany acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 54, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and providesthe information necessary for members to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and theCompany acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 44 to 46, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing thework We have no exceptions to report.
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the AuditCommittee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to add that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that orto draw attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to add or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing material to add as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they orto draw attention to.
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 77 Governance and directors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequatelydisclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for ustodraw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us inthe course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the strategic report and directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Christopher Rowland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 15 May 2017 78 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017
