INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEWRIVER REIT PLC Opinion on financial statements of NewRiver REIT plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 26 and A to D. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of shopping centre, high street and retail warehouse portfolio: Valuation of pub portfolio: and Accounting for investment property acquisitions and disposals Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 13,691,000 which was determined on the basis of approximately 2% of shareholders equity.
Scoping We performed a full scope audit to respond to the risks of material misstatement for the Group and performed an audit of specified account balances for the joint venture entities.
Together these elements account for 100% of the Group's net assets and 100% of profit before tax.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes to our audit approach in 2017, other than focussing our in our approach accounting for investment property acquisitions and disposals risk to the acquisition of the Bexleyheath properties.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 106 106 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement We confirm that we have nothing material regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained to add or draw attention to in respect of within note 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the these matters.
longer-term viability of the group contained within the Directors Report on We agreed with the Directors adoption page 104. of the going concern basis of accounting We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw and we did not identify any such material attention to in relation to: uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be the Directors confirmation on page 74 that they have carried out a robust predicted, this statement is not a guarantee assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would as to the groups ability to continue as a threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: going concern.
the Disclosures on pages 55 to 57 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 120 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards We confirm that we are independent of the for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the group and we have group and we have fulfilled our other ethical fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Valuation of shopping centre, high street and retail warehouse portfolio Risk description NewRiver REIT plc owns and manages a portfolio of commercial property assets.
The valuation of shopping centre, high street and retail warehouse portfolio including a number of development properties is a significant judgement area and is underpinned by a number of assumptions.
The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair value its portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
The portfolio excluding development properties is valued using the investment method of valuation, in which the principal assumptions include estimated include rental values and capitalisation yields.
Development properties are valued by applying the same methodology, but with a deduction for all future costs necessary to complete the development together with an allowance for remaining risk, developers profit and purchasers costs the residual method.
The Group's share of property assets are valued at 952.8 million 2016: 797.3 million of which 818.2 million are held by subsidiaries 2016: 663.2 million and 134.6 million by joint ventures 2016: 134.1 million.
Please see note 1 and 12 to the financial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 74.
How the scope We assessed, in consultation with our property valuation specialists, managements process for reviewing of our audit and challenging the work of the external valuer and development appraisals.
We also assessed the responded to competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer.
the risk In consultation with our property valuation specialists, we performed detailed analysis of the valuations for a sample of properties in the portfolio.
We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information provided to the independent valuer including agreement on a sample basis back to underlying lease agreements.
Alongside our property valuation specialists, we held discussions with the external valuers of the portfolio to understand the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including estimated rental values and yields.
We benchmarked these assumptions to relevant external industry data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
For development properties we assessed future costs to complete based on development appraisals.
We assessed the classification of development properties and whether the methodology applied i. e. investment or residual method was appropriate.
We also challenged the allowances in the valuation for developers profit.
Key observations We have concluded that the assumptions applied in arriving at the fair value of the Group's shopping centre, high street and retail warehouse portfolio by the external valuers were appropriate and that resulting valuations were within an acceptable range.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 108 108 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Valuation of pub portfolio Risk description NewRiver REIT plc owns a pub portfolio with fair value of 177.8 million 2016: 176.0 million comprising 350 pubs 195 in the Trent portfolio and 155 in the Mantle portfolio.
The extent and variety of judgements involved in the valuation of the pub portfolio is different to the rest of the investment property portfolio due to the specific operational nature of the properties, as well as the contractual arrangements in place with Marstons, the Co-op and LT Pub Management.
Within the portfolio, 285 pubs fair value of 122.6m are valued as income producing pubs using the investment method of valuation, whereby the principal assumptions include income from fair maintainable trade FMT and capitalisation multiples.
The 34 development properties fair value of 24.7m are valued using a gross development value calculated as initial rent due upon completion of the development with an applied capitalisation yield: less a deduction for future costs to complete and an allowance for planning risk, developers profit and purchasers costs the residual method.
In addition to the above there are 22 properties where a new rental agreement has been signed with Marstons fair value of 14.9m and 9 completed development properties delivered to the Co-op fair value of 14.3m.
These are valued using the investment method of valuation, where the principal inputs include rental values and capitalisation yields.
the risk Alongside our property valuation specialists, we held discussions with the external valuers of the portfolio to understand the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical judgement areas.
This included the following specific procedures for each part of the pub portfolio: In respect of the income producing pubs: We engaged with our internal valuation specialists in order to benchmark the capitalisation multiples applied by the external valuers against relevant industry data and market transactions.
For a sample of pubs we benchmarked FMT adopted by the external valuer against actual historic performance including contracted fixed rent, beer volumes and beer margin, corroborating explanations for any differences.
In respect of the development properties: For a sample of development properties and alongside our internal valuation specialists, we challenged and corroborated movements in valuations.
This included verification of underlying costs and stage of completion to reports from the Group's external quantity surveyors and agreeing planning risk assumptions to reports provided by the Group's external planning consultants.
Through consultation with our internal valuation specialist, we also considered whether the allowances in the valuation for developers profit were consistent with industry adopted allowances.
In respect of the remaining properties: We engaged with our internal valuation specialists in order to benchmark the capitalisation yields applied by the external valuers for the Marston's and Co-op leases against relevant industry data and comparable property transactions.
We agreed contracted rent back to underlying lease agreements with Marston's and the Co-op.
Key observations We have concluded that the assumptions applied in arriving at the fair value of the Group's pub portfolio by the external valuers were appropriate and that resulting valuations were within an acceptable range.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Accounting for investment property acquisitions and disposals Risk description The structure of acquisition and disposal agreements can be complex and the accounting treatment needs to accurately reflect the nature of the transaction, which can be dependent on the specific terms within the legal documentation.
The acquisition of Bexleyheath, with a gross property value of 120 million, represents the Groups largest acquisition to date.
The transaction was completed through the purchase of two corporate vehicles.
This transaction was considered to be an area of significant risk as the transaction involved the acquisition of two corporate vehicles rather than a direct asset acquisition.
Judgement is required to determine whether the transaction was the acquisition a group of assets, or a business combination in the scope of IFRS 3.
This was determined to represent an asset acquisition and therefore accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS 40 Investment property.
The Group continued to recycle capital through a number of other acquisitions and disposals, none of which were considered to be material or complex by nature.
Please see note 1 to the financial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 74.
How the scope In respect of Bexleyheath, we considered managements analysis of the transaction and assessed their of our audit rationale for concluding that it represented an asset acqusition.
In particular, we challenged management responded to to demonstrate that the two corporate vehicles acquired did not constitute a business.
the risk We have examined relevant documents including the sale and purchase agreement to confirm the consideration paid and other particulars of acquisition, including agreement of a sample of related costs to supporting documentation.
We reviewed the accuracy of the accounting entries made.
In determining whether other acquisitions and disposals were considered to be material or complex by nature, we made inquiries of management, examined the sale and purchase agreements for a sample of transactions and recalculated the relevant accounting entries made.
We also reviewed the completeness and accuracy of disclosures presented in the financial statements in relation to transactions in the year.
Key observations We have concluded that the accounting for investment property acquisitions and disposals, including the acquisition of the Bexleyheath property, have been appropriately accounted for and disclosed within the financial statements.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 110 110 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 13,691,000 2016: 13,620,000 Basis for determining We determined materiality for the Group based on approximately 2% 2016: 2% of shareholders' equity.
materiality Rationale for the In determining materiality, we considered the balances on which the users of the financial statements benchmark applied would judge the performance of the Group.
As net asset value takes into consideration the valuation of the Groups property portfolio, we determined the shareholders equity of to be a key performance indicator for shareholders.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA earnings to be a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure used within the Real Estate industry.
For account balances and classes of transactions that affect EPRA earnings we applied a lower level materiality threshold of 2,260,000 2016: 1,349,000, being approximately 5% 2016: 5% of EPRA earnings.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that this was appropriate as EPRA earnings is a key performance measure for the Group but is a relatively low amount compared to our overall Group materiality set out above.
Group materiality 13.69m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.273m NAV 684.5 NAV Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 273,000 2016: 272,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We performed a full scope audit to respond to the risks of material misstatement for the Group and performed an audit of specified account balances for the joint venture entities.
Together these elements account for 100% 2016: 100% of the Group's net assets and 100% 2016: 100% of Groups profit before tax.
Our audit work was executed at levels of Group or EPRA earnings materiality applicable to each account balance.
The audit of the Groups joint venture with Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund MSREF, which has a 31 December 2016 year end, is carried out by BDO LLP.
Other joint ventures of the Group are audited by  LLP and also have 31 December 2016 year ends.
We have obtained and reviewed audited financial statements and held detailed discussions with the joint venture auditors to understand the scope of their audit, findings and overall conclusions.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of report arising from directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be these matters.
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement our review.
relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We confirm that we Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report have not identified Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our any such opinion, information in the annual report is: inconsistencies or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or misleading statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 112 112 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Becker Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 15 May 2017 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113
