PIGIT pp35 56 01 06 2017 10:54 Page 35 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plcs the Company affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2017 which comprise: Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2017 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year ended 31 March 2017 Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017 Related notes 1 to 21 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual financial report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 PIGIT pp35 56 01 06 2017 10:54 Page 36 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Risk Our response to the risk: Income recognition Gained an understanding of the Invesco Fund Managers Limited the Manager and Bank of New 2017: 39.6 million and 2016: 40.2 million York Mellons BNYM systems and controls in this Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 20 area and ascertained whether we could rely on them.
to 22 : Principal Accounting Policies pages 42 Agreed a sample of dividends received from the to 44 : and Note 2 of the Financial Statements accounting records to an independent pricing source page 44 and to the bank statements.
We focused on the recognition of revenue and Agreed a sample of dividends paid by investee its presentation in the financial statements given companies from an independent pricing source to the importance of the total return to the accounting records.
Agreed 100% of accrued dividends to an We identified incomplete or inaccurate income independent pricing source and confirmed the recognition as a risk through failure to recognise accuracy of the calculation of accrued income.
proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment.
Performed a review of special dividends received.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting treatment i. e. the classification between capital and income with reference to the rationale put forward by the companies declaring the special dividend.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Having gained an understanding and evaluated the Managers and BNYMs systems and controls in this area we adopted a controls based approach for our audit of income recognition.
We noted no issues in agreeing a sample of dividend income from equity securities to and from the independent source and to the bank statements.
We noted no issues in agreeing the accrued dividends to an independent source.
We noted that the Company received 2.0 million 2016: 5.1 million of special dividends during the year of which 1.7 million 2016: 5.1 million have been classified as a revenue return and 0.3 million 2016: nil have been classified as a capital return.
We considered this treatment to be consistent with the underlying commercial substance behind the special dividend payment.
Risk Our response to the risk: Valuation of and entitlement to investments Gained an understanding of the Managers and BNYMs systems and controls in this area and 2017: 1,164.9 million and 2016: ascertained whether we could rely on them.
1,117.6 million Agreed 100% of the quoted investment valuations Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 20 and exchange rates to an independent source.
to 22 : Principal Accounting Policies pages 42 to 44 : and Note 9 of the Financial Statements Reviewed pricing exception reports and investigated pages 47 and 48 any discrepancies.
The valuation of the portfolio of investments For all unquoted investments we discussed the is comprised of listed investments in equity valuation methodology with the Manager, securities of 1,136.2 million 2016: considered the appropriateness of the valuation 1,090.1 million and unquoted investments of techniques used and agreed the valuations to 28.7 million 2016: 27.5 million.
independent third party valuation reports, with the exception of Oxford Sciences Innovation.
For Oxford The valuation of assets held in the investment Sciences Innovation we agreed the valuation to the portfolio is the key driver of the Companys net amount per the private placing programme.
asset value and total return.
Ensured the unquoted valuations are performed in Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain accordance with the Companys accounting policies proper legal title of assets by the Company as set out in note 1 c v to the financial statements.
could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated Obtained independent confirmations of all for shareholders.
investments held from the custodian and depositary and performed a three way reconciliation of the investments held by the Company to the records of the custodian and depositary.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee For all listed investments we noted no material differences in the fair value of the investments and identified no exceptions or discrepancies.
We note that, with the exception of the investment in Oxford Sciences Innovation, all unquoted investments were valued with reference to an independent third party valuation report.
We obtained a copy of these valuation reports together with the minutes of meetings of the Invesco Pricing Committee, considered the appropriateness of the assumptions contained within these valuation reports and agreed the valuation inputs to source documentation.
In addition we made enquiries of representatives of the Invesco Pricing Committee in relation to the valuation process and whether they were aware of any events having occurred post year end that could impact on the valuation of the unquoted investments.
We also discussed the valuation of the unquoted investments with the Audit Committee.
36 PIGIT pp35 56 01 06 2017 10:54 Page 37 FINANCIAL With respect to Oxford Sciences Innovation, we note that the valuation of this investment is based on the price of a recent transaction.
Based on our review of the underlying documentation for the valuation of this investment we had no matters to report to the Audit Committee.
We confirmed that the valuation techniques were in accordance with the Companys accounting policies as set out in Note 1 c v to the Financial Statements.
We confirmed that all investments held by the Company agreed to the Independent confirmations received from the custodian and depositary and that no discrepancies arose when performing a three way reconciliation of the investment held.
Based on the work performed we gain sufficient satisfactory assurance over the valuation of and title to the investment portfolio.
Risk Our response to the risk: Management fee Recalculated the management and performance fee and ensured the calculations were in line with the 2017: 5.6 million and 2016: 5.6 million Investment Management Agreement.
Performance fee Validated all key external inputs used in the 2017: nil and 2016: 4.0m calculations to third party source data.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 20 Agreed all management fees paid to invoices and to 22 : Principal Accounting Policies pages 42 subsequent bank payments, confirming the accuracy to 44 : and Note 3 of the Financial Statements of the year end liabilities.
page 45 Confirmed that there was no year-end liability in The performance fee is payable annually in respect of the performance fee.
arrears to the Manager, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index and to the extent that it exceeds any brought forward under performance from previous years.
There is a risk that management and performance fees are not calculated correctly or the methodology is open to misinterpretation.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee There were no areas of interpretation in respect of the management and performance fee calculation methodologies which required further discussion with the Manager or the Audit Committee.
We were satisfied that there was no performance fee payable on the grounds that the Companys Net Asset Value total return had underperformed the FTSE All-Share Index total return during the year.
Based on the work performed we have no matters to report to the Audit Committee.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 10.1 million 2016: 9.6 million, which is 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of net assets as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
Performance materiality Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 PIGIT pp35 56 01 06 2017 10:54 Page 38 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 7.6 million 2016: 4.8 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due the fact that this is no longer a first year audit.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.8 million 2016: 1.8 million for the revenue column of the Income statement, being 5% of the Return on ordinary activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 506,000 2016: 480,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determines our audit scope for the Company.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of company-wide controls, and other factors such as recent Service Organisation Control SOC reporting when assessing the level of work to be performed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual financial report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual 38 PIGIT pp35 56 01 06 2017 10:54 Page 39 FINANCIAL financial report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual financial report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: a the Directors confirmation in the annual financial report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: b the disclosures in the annual financial report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: c the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and d the Directors explanation in the annual financial report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 28, and longer-term viability, set out on page 13: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Sarah Williams Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 31 May 2017 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39
