Independent audItors report to the members ofdaIryCrest Group plc our opinion on financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Dairy Crest Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as company financial statements the financial statements give a regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: overview of our audit approach the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in risks of material Accounting for promotional expenditure, including accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: misstatement the impact on revenue recognition Classification of items as exceptional the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European audit scope We have 3 full scope components where we have performed an audit of the financial information Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The entities where we performed full scope audit Companies Act 2006: and procedures accounted for 99% of profit before tax the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items, 100% of revenue and 100% of total assets the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.0 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items What we have audited Dairy Crest Group plc financial statements comprise: Group parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 Consolidated income statement for Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended the year then ended Consolidated statement of Cash flow statement for the year then comprehensive income for the year ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes Related notes 1 to 36 to the financial in equity for the year then ended statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 36 to the financial statements our assessment of risk of material misstatement the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as procedures below which were designed in the context of the those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of express any opinion on these individual areas.
risk our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the audit Committee accounting for promotional expenditure, Specific procedures to address the fraud risk were: Based on our audit procedures, including the impact on revenue recognition In assessing changes in key estimates and the Groups policy, we the methodology adopted in assessed both the methodologies and rationale applied in determining determining promotional Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : changes in approach from prior periods for risk of management expenditure netted against the Accounting policies page 76 : and Note 1 of the override.
We corroborated through an analysis of historical settlements.
revenue recognised is Consolidated Financial Statements page 82.
We have corroborated the time frame for retaining unclaimed appropriate, and the year end promotional accruals on the Groups balance sheet and the accrual balance is correctly state Revenue of 416.6 million 2015 16 422.3 million appropriateness of the year end accrual.
continuing is recognised net of rebates and We evaluated the design of controls in relation to the authorisation of discounts, which comprise promotional expenses in promotional activity and the determination of year end promotional relation to agreed promotional activity and funding accruals.
We tested on a sample basis year end promotional accruals and We focused on this area given the significance of obtained third party documentation to support the existence and promotional expenditure to the financial statements measurement of the accruals balance.
and the subjectivity in determining the promotional We tested subsequent invoices and cash paid after the balance sheet expenditure.
date to detect any unrecorded liabilities in promotional accruals and re-evaluated the approach to determining accrual amounts at year end.
Risks include: We have tested a sample of invoices through the profit and loss Promotional expenses could be recorded in the account during the year and verified to customer documentation.
wrong financial year and are incorrectly classified We verified the appropriateness of managements key assumptions, in the income statement.
including the determination of redemption rates.
Key assumptions were The methodology applied in calculating the level of reassessed based on observed changes in consumer behaviour in promotional accruals at 31 March 2017 is relation to promotional offerings and the Groups experience of inappropriate.
This risk was present in the prior year.
On a sample basis we have performed cut-off testing to confirm that promotional expenditure has been recognised in the correct accounting period.
66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 risk our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the audit Committee Classification of items as exceptional For a sample of items we confirmed that they were recorded in line with We are satisfied that these items the Groups policy for exceptional items and that the policy has been and their classification as Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34: applied consistently with prior years.
exceptional is appropriate and in Accounting policies page 76 : and Note 4 of the In particular, we corroborated the appropriateness of the methodology accordance with the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements page 85. and rationale supporting the calculation of duplicate running costs in accounting policy for exceptional relation to the initiation costs for the demineralised whey powder and items and consistent with the Dairy Crest Group considers the separate reporting GOS projects, through vouching incremental expenditure to supporting treatment in prior years.
of exceptional items helps to give users of the documentation.
accounts a better understanding of the underlying We have reviewed the nature of both the income and expenditure items operational performance of the Group where items included within exceptionals and tested to supporting documentation are material and one-off in nature.
We specifically considered the level of transparency We have focused on the 8.6 million 2015 16 of the disclosures.
133.4 million of total net continuing and discontinuing costs that are classified as exceptional in the current year.
Risks include: Inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items Inconsistent treatment of exceptional items from year to year Inappropriate quantification of exceptional items This risk was present in the prior year.
In the prior year, our auditors report included the following risks of material misstatement.
We have explained below why they are no longer recognised in the current year.
risk identified in 2015 16 Why we do not consider this an area of significant risk in 2016 17 Accounting for the disposal of the Dairies operations We focused on this area given the material nature of the calculation of the loss on disposal and the performance of the dairies operations for the period up to the disposal in December 2015, which was reported as a single line item within discontinued operations in the income statement.
We do not consider that the level of discontinued operations this financial year represents a key focus area of the audit.
Deferred tax asset recognition relating to the Dairies This risk was new in the 2015 16 auditors report as the deferred tax asset relating losses.
to the Dairies losses carried forward arose following the completion of the sale itself.
Key judgements were made in the prior year pertaining to the deferred tax recognition and those judgements have not changed significantly in 2016 17, therefore this no longer presents a significant area of audit focus in the current year.
Redemption rates do not reflect ongoing changes in Based on prior years audit experience, on reassessment, we do not consider both consumer behaviour and the nature of that there is a high likelihood of a material misstatement occurring in respect of promotional arrangements previously included within redemption rates.
promotional accruals the scope of our audit The entities for which we performed audit procedures accounted for tailoring the scope 100% 2015 2016: 99% of the Groups revenue and 99% Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our 2015 2016: 99% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for non-recurring exceptional items and 100% 2015 2016: 97% of the each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form Groups total assets.
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into For the remaining entities within the Group, we performed other account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and procedures, including analytical review, testing of the clerical effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business accuracy of the consolidation to respond to any potential risks of environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results material misstatement of the Group financial statements and when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
enquiries of management to address the residual risk of material In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial misstatement.
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of The audit of the entities within the Group is undertaken by one audit significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 22 entities team which is led by the senior statutory auditor.
within the Group, we have selected all 2 trading entities and the parent company, which represent the principal business units within There have not been any significant changes to the scope of our the Group.
The remaining entities are either non-trading, holding or audit from the prior year.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 3 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 67 The numbers INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF DAIRy CREST GROUP plc CONTINUED our application of materiality reporting threshold We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit being clearly trivial.
and in forming our audit opinion.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them materiality all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 150,000 2015 2016: The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in 140,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the our audit procedures.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.0 million other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
2015 2016: 2.8 million, which is 5% 2015 2016: 5% of profit before tax for continuing operations adjusted for non-recurring scope of the audit of the financial statements exceptional items.
We believe that profit before tax for continuing An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and operations, adjusted for exceptional items, provides us with a disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the assurance that the financial statements are free from material most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an entity and one which management uses as a key performance assessment of: indicator when reporting to the market.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Reported profit before tax from continuing the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by operations 40.3 million 2015 2016: the directors: and starting basis 45.4 million the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Non-recurring exceptional items financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently increase basis by 19.1 million 2015 2016: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the adjustments 11.3 million knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Take 5% of 59.4 million 2015 2016: 56.7 million adjusted profit before tax respective responsibilities of directors and auditor materiality 3.0 million 2015 2016: 2.8 million As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an performance materiality opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable The application of materiality at the individual account or balance law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015 2016: companys members those matters we are required to state to them 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.2 million 2015 2016: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent 2.1 million.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is formed.
undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole 2006 and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In our opinion: In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has components was 2.2 million to 770,000 2015 2016: 2.1 million to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 525,000 for all entities.
2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 matters on which we are required to report by exception Isas uK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual We have no exceptions to report.
Ireland reporting report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the We have no exceptions to report.
2006 reporting course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing rules We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
review the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 62 and longer-term viability, set requirements out on page 62: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that Would threaten the solvency or Liquidity of the entity Isas uK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing material to add or Ireland reporting attention to in relation to: to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
anup sodhi Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 17 May 2017 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 69 The numbers
