Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 18.4 million which represents approximately 1% of total assets.
the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Specific materiality of 3.2 million used for Materiality certain Consolidated income statement line 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: items, being a percentage of profit before tax, net finance costs and investment property have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the valuation movements.
Audit All work in support of the Group audit opinion European Union: and scope have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the is performed by the Group audit team.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Valuation of investment properties due to materiality and the level of judgement Areas What we have audited involved.
of focus The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Compliance with the REIT regime due to the Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: impact of the tax exempt status on the the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: Groups business and the financial statements.
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently European Union, and applicable law.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
121Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties In order to assess the accuracy of the valuation of the property Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, pages 139 to 141 Notes portfolio as at 31 March 2017 and to identify those properties which to the financial statements note 10 and page 130 Significant needed further investigation, we undertook an analysis of each judgements, key assumptions and estimates, Significant accounting property valuation and compared the yield adopted and movement in policies.
capital value over the year with expected market benchmarks.
We evaluated the underlying valuation methodology and assumptions We focused on this area due to the magnitude of the investment used by the valuer and met with the Groups Development Director to property balance and because the assumptions used in determining understand property specific factors.
the fair value of the investment properties involve significant judgements and estimates.
The external valuer used by the Group is CBRE.
We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of CBRE and verified its The Groups investment properties were valued at 1,839.0 million as qualifications.
Consistent with previous years and as part of our at 31 March 2017 and the revaluation gain of 39.5 million is included evaluation, we assessed the independence of CBRE given the Nonwithin Change in fair value of investment properties in the Executive Director role of Stephen Hubbard.
We also discussed the Consolidated income statement.
scope of its work and reviewed the terms of its engagement.
We found no unusual terms or fee arrangements that might affect its The property valuations are carried out by external valuers in objectivity.
accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards and Workspaces Group accounting policies which incorporate the We met with CBRE to discuss and challenge the valuation process, requirements of International Accounting Standard 40, Investment key assumptions and the rationale behind the more significant Property.
Where relevant, we were able to corroborate the explanations for yields and ERV movements with The Groups property portfolio consists of office and industrial comparable property transactions and market benchmarks.
properties located in London and includes: We found that yields and ERVs were predominantly consistent with Properties held at investment value These are existing properties comparable benchmarking information for the asset location and that that are currently let and generate rental income.
They are valued the assumptions applied appropriately reflected comparable market using the income capitalisation method as explained in note 10. transactions.
Where assumptions did not fall within our expected range, we assessed whether additional evidence presented in arriving Properties held at development value These are properties at the final valuation was appropriate, and whether this had been currently being refurbished, under development or identified for robustly challenged by the external independent valuers.
They have a different risk and investment profile satisfied that variances were predominantly due to property specific to the properties held at investment value and are valued using the factors such as new lettings at higher rents, increased average rents or residual value method as explained in note 10. capital improvements to the properties.
We noted that the overall valuation primarily increased as a result of higher rents achieved, The most significant judgements affecting all the valuations includes growth in ERVs and a contracted disposal.
yield and Estimated Rental Value ERV movements as described in note 10 of the financial statements.
For properties held at In addition, we were able to obtain evidence to support the valuation development value, other assumptions including costs to complete, from the results of the following procedures which did not identify any property specific factors, timing and the likelihood of achieving material misstatements.
We: planning consent are also factored into the valuation.
Where checked the accuracy of the underlying lease and occupancy data available, the valuations take into account evidence of market used by CBRE in their valuation of the portfolio by tracing the data transactions for properties and locations comparable to those of the back to the Workspace accounting records and signed leases on a Group.
sample basis: for the properties held at development value, evaluated the underlying assumptions for the gross development value, construction costs and property specific factors within the development appraisals by comparing them to available market information and underlying project plans: agreed the acquisitions and disposals in the year to the underlying agreements, cash payments and receipts and title deeds: and agreed a sample of capital expenditure items to invoices, quantity surveyor reports and cash to check that they had been correctly capitalised.
122Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with the REIT regime We confirmed our understanding of managements overall approach Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, pages 136 to 137 Notes to checking their compliance with the REIT regime requirements to to the financial statements note 6 and page 130 Significant our satisfaction.
judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
We obtained managements calculations and supporting Workspace converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT in documentation for the current and preceding year Balance of 2007.
The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status Business tests, testing the inputs, calculation and application of the provided they meet the specific requirements of the regime.
We focused on this area because the rules are complex and the tax For 2016, based on our work on the calculations and supporting exempt status has a significant impact on the Groups business and documentation, we were satisfied with managements conclusion that the Group financial statements.
Workspace generated more than 50% and less than 75% of its total accounting profits from its property rental business.
If the level of income generated from the property rental business were to fall below 75% of its total accounting profits in the current For 2017, we are satisfied that the Group generated approximately year, Workspace may be deemed to fail the Balance of Business test.
96% of its total accounting profits from the property rental business.
Two consecutive years would represent a minor breach of the REIT Consequently, there is not a second year of the test result being below regime criteria.
75% and we do not consider there to be a breach to any of the REIT criteria.
In 2016, the Group recognised a performance fee of 24.1m from the BlackRock Workspace Property Trust for services provided in its capacity as the property manager of the joint venture.
As a result, Workspace generated less than 75% of its total accounting profits from its property rental business for the period.
We therefore considered the Balance of Business test for 2017 to understand whether 75% of its total accounting profits were generated from its property rental business thereby avoiding a minor breach in the second consecutive period.
How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed the financial statements as a whole as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Overall Group 18.4 million 2016: 18.8 million.
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in materiality which the Group operates.
How we Approximately 1% of total assets.
Workspace Group PLC provides commercial property to let determined it throughout London.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the nine active entities, nineteen dormant entities and Rationale for The key driver of the business and determinant of the Groups one joint venture.
benchmark the Groups value is direct property investments.
applied Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the Except for the joint venture, where we focused our work on the share valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, of profits and net assets that are recognised in the Group financial consistent with last year, we set an overall Group statements, all active entities were identified as requiring an audit of materiality level based on total assets.
their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics and all the audit work was performed by the Specific 3.2 million 2016: 5.5 million.
materiality Materiality How we A percentage of profit before tax, net finance costs The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of determined it and investment property valuation movements.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to Rationale for A number of key performance indicators of the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of benchmark Group are driven by income statement items and we our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items applied therefore applied a lower specific materiality to the and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both components of profit before tax, excluding net individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
finance costs and investment property valuation movements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6 million 2016: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
123Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC continued Going Concern ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going concern.
We have Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our nothing to report having performed our review.
opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have materially inconsistent with the information exceptions to anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the in the audited financial statements: or report.
Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to apparently materially incorrect based on, or adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded otherwise misleading.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the statement given by the Directors on page We have no the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the 120, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK exceptions to Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Corporate Governance Code the Code, that report.
Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the they consider the Annual Report taken as a financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have whole to be fair, balanced and understandable concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is and provides the information necessary for appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can Members to assess the Groups position and be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups performance, business model and strategy is ability to continue as a going concern.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing Other required reporting our audit.
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable the section of the Annual Report on page 89, as We have no requirements required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to describing the work of the Audit Committee report.
Companies Act 2006 opinion does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity audit: of the Group the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we the Directors for the financial year for which the financial have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Directors confirmation on page 88 of the We have nothing the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been Annual Report, in accordance with provision material to add C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a or to draw prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing attention to.
the Group, including those that would threaten In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the its business model, future performance, Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we solvency or liquidity.
are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have nothing Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
describe those risks and explain how they are material to add being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 40 of the We have nothing Annual Report, in accordance with provision material to add C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have or to draw assessed the prospects of the Group, over attention to.
what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
124Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Adequacy of information and explanations received We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent by law are not made.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate governance statement inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other matter Our responsibilities and those of the Directors We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March set out on page 120, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a that is described as having been audited.
Sonia Copeland Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Senior Statutory Auditor statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & for and on behalf of  LLP Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
London 6 June 2017 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys Members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
125Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
