Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc Opinion on financial statements of FirstGroup plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 36 of the Consolidated results and 1 to 10 of the Company results.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: the assessment of the carrying value of First Student goodwill 1,271 million : valuation of the self-insurance provision 323 million in North America: valuation of pension scheme liabilities 4,832 million : accuracy of manual adjustments to revenue recognition processes: and accounting for rail franchise contracts.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 9.0 million which was determined on the basis of 4.3% of adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping Full audit procedures were performed over 97% of the Groups net assets, 99% of the Groups revenue, and 94% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
Significant changes In the prior year we identified a risk in relation to revenue recognition including contract accounting while in the current inour approach year, we have more closely focused our revenue recognition risk to be specifically around manual adjustments to revenue and we have broadened our risk in relation to rail franchise contract accounting.
We have isolated the risk of third party claims to be specific to the North America self insurance balance rather than also including legal claims due to the reduction in material litigation exposures.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained with the directors report and additional disclosures on pages 80 to 83 and note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the directors report and additional disclosures on pages80to83.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 83 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 32 to 37 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement within the directors report and additional disclosures on pages 80 to 83 and note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 83 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of the above matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations The assessment of the carrying value We challenged managements assumptions used in We concluded that taken ofFirstStudent goodwill 1,271m theirimpairment model for goodwill, specifically including together the assumptions the cash flow projections, discount rates and growth applied in the impairment The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill ratesapplied.
model are reasonable andintangibles, as described in note 2, involves andno impairment has judgment in relation to forecasting future cash flows Our procedures included: been identified.
and is sensitive to growth rates and the discount rate considering the identification of appropriate cash generating applied to the future cash flows.
The Cash We consider the disclosure units: Generating Unit CGU most sensitive to variation around the sensitivity to be assessing cash flow projections with reference to historical inthese assumptions is the First Student CGU, as proportionate to the level trading performance and forecasting accuracy: described in note 11 to the financial statements, ofjudgment.
where headroom has increased from 232m at comparing the discount rate applied against a comparator 31March 2016 to 709m at 31 March 2017. group as well as involving our internal valuation specialists to review underlying calculations: Management has highlighted impairment of intangible assets including goodwill as a key source comparing the growth rates applied to the long term average of estimation uncertainty in note 2. growth rate of the relevant jurisdiction, as well as comparing historical growth rates to relevant historic rates: The Audit Committee report on page 61 refers tothe carrying value of First Student goodwill and intangible considering the reasonableness of, and recalculating, the assets as one of the significant issues and judgments sensitivity assessment applied by management: considered by the Audit Committee.
performing further independent sensitivity analysis on the impairment model: and considering the appropriateness of the disclosure on reasonably possible changes.
138 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Valuation of the self-insurance provision 323m The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk We are satisfied that taken in North America included: together the assumptions usedare reasonable The underlying calculation of the North American working with our actuarial specialists to test the estimates andthatthevaluation self-insurance reserves of 323 million see note 26 determined by Management and their external actuary ofthe North American remains subject to significant judgment and considering the methodologies employed and comparing self-insurance reserve fluctuation based on the volume and severity of the assumptions used to the Groups historical experience: isreasonable.
claims within the portfolio and the discount rate independently developing an actuarial calculation and applied to the external settlement values.
comparing the provision recorded to the actuarial range calculated by the external actuary: Management has highlighted self-insurance asa key source of estimation uncertainty innote 2. testing a sample of the underlying data used to develop the provision for completeness and accuracy: and The Audit Committee report on page 61 refers to North America self-insurance provisions as one of the challenging the appropriateness of the discount rate used significant issues and judgments considered by the through comparison to prior years and market rates.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities 4,832m The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk We are satisfied that taken included: together the assumptions appliedin respect of the The Group operates in a labour intensive industry working with our actuarial specialists to test the estimates valuation of the liabilities with large membership to a number of defined determined by Management and its external actuary are reasonable and that benefitpension schemes.
The valuation of gross considering the methodologies employed and comparing the valuation of the pension liabilities, as disclosed in note 34, is assumptions used to the Groups historical experience and pensionscheme liabilities materially sensitive to changes in the underlying to listed and industry benchmarks: and is reasonable.
Management exercise testing the underlying data used to develop the provision significant judgment when determining those We consider the disclosure through analytical procedures and challenging the assumptions, particularly in respect of the around the sensitivity to be appropriateness of the discount rate used through discountrate, inflation, and mortality rates.
proportionate to the level comparison to prior years and those used by similar entities.
Management has highlighted defined benefit pension arrangements as a critical accounting judgment in note 2.
The Audit Committee report on page 61 refers toPensions as one of the significant issues and judgments considered by the Audit Committee.
Accuracy of manual adjustments torevenue The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk The results of our recognition processes included: procedures were satisfactory and we did As described in the Significant accounting policies in at a Group and component level, auditing revenue related notidentify inappropriate note 2 revenue transactions across the Group are journal entries by selecting items that demonstrated manual adjustments predominantly high volume and low value.
In some characteristics of being manual in nature by agreeing torevenue.
instances, revenue recorded may be subject to them to supporting documentation to determine the manual adjustments to reflect the timing and rationale for the entries: and valuation of revenue recognised, for example where recalculating the accuracy of material accrued income amounts are unbilled at the year end.
The accuracy of recording any such material adjustments to revenue related transactions may represent a key risk of material misstatement to revenue.
This includes manual adjustments to accrued or deferred income balance sheet items that impact revenue in the income statement.
The Audit Committee report on page 61 refers to Revenue recognition as one of the significant issues and judgments considered by the Audit Committee.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations The audit procedures we performed in respect of this The results of our Accounting for rail franchise contracts riskincluded: procedures were The Group operates a number of complex contracts, satisfactory and assessing the judgments taken by Management in especially the First Rail franchises.
Judgment is weconcurred with the determining the valuation and timing of recognition of certain particularly required in relation to the valuation of judgmentsmade and performance related amounts received under the rail certain performance related amounts the Group is theresulting accounting contracts and the accuracy of the associated deferred entitled to under these arrangements.
income: and judgment is also applied in the evaluation of the overall profitability of contracts across the Group considering the new rail franchise contract outturn inparticular determining whether new rail contracts projections by reference to current activities and the are onerous recognising such contracts include assumptions being made.
Management has highlighted contract and franchise accounting as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 2.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.0m 2016: 8.0m, which is 4.3% 2016: 4.8% of adjusted pre-tax profit as defined in note 4.
We consider a profit measure the most appropriate basis for determining materiality as this is the measure on which business performance is analysed.
The adjusted profit before tax measure has been used to exclude the volatility of non-recurring items.
In addition, the exclusion of amortisation and the income statement effect of ineffective and unhedged financial derivative valuation is consistent with the key measure used by the Group for internal and external reporting.
This measure has been used to facilitate a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Group materiality 9m Component materiality PBT 153m range 4m to 8m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.3m PBT Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 2016: 160,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing therisks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the two UK Bus operating regions following a restructuring from four in the prior year, two significant Train Operating Companies being GWR and TPE, the operations in North America and the Bus division and Group corporate head office functions as well as the UK Shared Service Centre.
We performed specified audit procedures at the Rail Division head office function representing less than 2% of the Groups net assets, revenue or adjusted profit before tax.
The locations subject to full audit procedures represent the principal business units and account for 97% 2016: 97% ofthe Groups net assets, 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups revenue and 94% 2016: 94% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
They were alsoselected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit workat locations subject to full audit procedures was executed at levels of materiality of between 4.5m and 8.0m applicable to each individual location, while the principal Group corporate holding company audits were executed at their statutory materiality levels ranging between 1.1m and 1.5m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
140 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements We include all component audit teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and a senior member of the Group audit team has visited all locations to review documentation of the findings from their work.
In relation to the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited North America twice.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 1 June 2017 142 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017
