Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC Parent Company Report on the Parent Company financial statements Directors remuneration Our opinion Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs Parent Company financial In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be statements the financial statements : audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as Act 2006. at 31 March 2017: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Companies Act 2006. not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What we have audited Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: out on page 120, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair ended: and view.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, Ethical Standards for Auditors.
comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys Members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Other required reporting Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other requirements purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Companies Act 2006 opinion consent in writing.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: What an audit of financial statements involves the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we adequately disclosed: are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
We have Directors: and nothing to report in this respect.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors ISAs UK & Ireland reporting judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
& Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable statements: or basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course combination of both.
of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies received we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we consider whether those reports Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we Other matter require for our audit: or We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Sonia Copeland the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Senior Statutory Auditor Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting for and on behalf of  LLP records and returns.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
6 June 2017 158Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
