Financial statements I ndependent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Opinion on financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 andofthe groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union andasapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the consolidated Income Statement: the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: the consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Accounting Policies: the related notes 2 to 27: and the notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: management override of controls: disclosure of exceptional items and the presentation of adjusted measures in the financial statements: revenue recognition: supplier income: and recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 4.0m, which was determined on the basis of 3% ofHeadline profit before taxation.
Scoping Based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the group level, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units.
Each of these was subject to a full audit and together this covered 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups total revenues.
Together with this, our Group audit scope covered 96% of Headline profit before taxation 2016: 95% and 93% of net assets 2016: 97%.
Significant changes Last year our report included cyber attack impacts as a risk, which is not included in our report this year.
In the inour approach prior year, the company website was subject to a significant and sustained cyber attack.
Immediately following the incident, the Group incurred additional costs, 42 million of which the Directors presented as exceptional.
Another event of this nature did not recur during the year ended 31 March 2017 and the impact of the prior year incident was largely recognised in 2016, with limited net impact in 2017.
We have also removed the risk of impairment of goodwill within our audit report.
We did not consider this akeyrisk in the current year as it did not have a significant effect on our audit strategy nor the allocation ofresources in the audit.
We have included the risk of management override of controls within our audit report as a key risk in the current year.
Due to the quantum and nature of one-off items occurring during the year, we increased the level of audit focus in relation to the potential risk of management bias.
66 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union, the group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting attention to in respect of these matters.
contained within the Chief Financial Officer's statement and the directors We agreed with the directors adoption of the going statement on the longer term viability of the group contained within the concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any corporate governance statement.
However, because not all We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw future events or conditions can be predicted, this attention to in relation to: statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability tocontinue as a going concern.
the directors confirmation on page 65 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 22 to 25 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Chief Financial Officer's statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 40 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards We confirm that we are independent of the group and for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the group and we have wehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm wehave not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 67 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Management override of controls Risk description International Standards on Auditing require us to presume a risk of fraud arising from management override ofcontrols and conduct our audit testing accordingly.
Key areas of potential risk include inappropriate bias inrelation to accounting judgements and inappropriate accounting for significant or unusual transactions taking place in the year.
We increased the level of audit focus in this area due to the quantum and nature of items occurring during the year, including exceptional items, revenue share arrangements with third parties, supplier income, supplier settlements, revisions to accounting estimates, sale and leaseback transaction, management forecasts and capitalised internal labour.
The large number of areas requiring the application ofjudgement and estimation techniques creates additional risk of bias in accounting estimates.
Disclosures relating to the items noted above are included in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements and the risk is discussed in the report of the Audit Committee on page 42.
How the scope of our In considering the risk of management override of controls we have: audit responded to reviewed accounting estimates individually and collectively for management bias that would result the risk inmaterial misstatement, in particular focusing our attention on the areas noted above.
We obtained evidence to support the rationale behind each estimate made and quantified the impact on the financial statements.
Details of our audit response in relation to disclosure of exceptional items, revenue recognition policies and supplier income recognition have been outlined below: obtained supporting documentation and obtained an understanding of the business rationale for significant transactions that we have become aware of that are outside the normal course of business or that otherwise appear to be unusual given our understanding of the Group: and completed journal entry testing, where data analytics tools were used to identify those postings that might be indicative of management override of controls.
For the journal entries identified, we obtained explanations and examined supporting documentation to understand the nature and rationale for each entry.
Disclosure of exceptional items and the presentation of adjusted measures intheconsolidated financial statements Risk description During the year, the Group has incurred items classified as exceptional and 'adjusting' amounting to 63 million prior to the impact on taxation 2016: 93 million.
The disclosure of exceptional items and their presentation on the face of the income statement remains a key risk given the level of management judgement involved as inappropriate classification of exceptional items would impact on the disclosure of Headline earnings, which is a key performance indicator used by the Group.
The Group is coming to the end of a number of significant projects such as Making TalkTalk Simpler and has started a number of projects in the current year such as Network Transformation.
These are multi-phase projects spanning a number of years and consequently, we consider there is significant management judgement in determining whether those costs or projects are exceptional based on the Groups policy or are, in substance, business as usual and therefore should be recognised in arriving at Headline earnings.
The nature of these costs has been defined in note 9 to the accounts and the related accounting policy hasbeen disclosed in note 1.
The Audit Committees discussion of this risk is set out on page 42.
How the scope of our In addition to understanding the composition of exceptional items and agreeing a sample of items to audit responded to supporting documentation, we challenged managements rationale for the presentation of items within the the risk income statement as exceptional, particularly around the areas of higher judgement such as migration costs, internal labour, and costs for implementing operating efficiencies to determine whether the costs recognised as exceptional meet the criteria of the accounting policy for such items defined by the group within note 9.
This includes assessing the incremental nature of the costs, the extent to which the costs are non-recurring, whether they are specific to individual projects and considering whether they should be classified as part of underlying operations.
Our work has also included a review, on a sample basis, of items included within the income statement to identify income and expenses which may be exceptional by nature but not separately identified.
This included consideration of credit balances within underlying results, including supplier settlements.
68 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Revenue recognition Risk description Revenue represents a material balance of 1,783 million 2016: 1,835 million, consisting of a high volume ofindividually low value transactions and we have identified the following types of transactions and assertions related to revenue recognition which give rise to key risks due to the complexity of transaction processing within the Group as well as the level of management judgement: the completeness of revenue recorded through billing systems: the accuracy and completeness of revenue recognised on transactions which are outside the normal billing process, which by their nature carry a higher level of management judgement such as accrued revenue adjustments: and the appropriateness of the accounting in relation to revenue share arrangements with third parties and how the revenues and costs related to the transactions are disclosed within the financial statements.
See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for revenue recognition policy that has been applied by the Group and the Audit Committee report on page 42.
How the scope of our We involved our IT specialists to test the operating effectiveness of automated and non-automated controls audit responded to over the customer billing systems.
Our tests assessed the controls in place to ensure services supplied to the risk customers are input into and processed through the billing systems.
This enabled us to take a controls reliance approach over billing systems processing over 95% of revenue transactions by value.
We subsequently applied a combination of substantive analytical review procedures and tests of detail to obtain assurance over the accuracy and completeness of the reported output of thesesystems.
We performed substantive testing on a sample of non-systematic adjustments which are outside of the normal billing process and therefore carry higher levels of management judgement.
These included revenue deferrals and the write-back to the income statement of credits applied to customer accounts.
Our work included agreeing a sample of items to supporting evidence to determine whether they had been recognised in line withGroup policies as well as analytical review to understand the movements year on year.
We have assessed the appropriateness of the revenue recognition policy adopted with reference to third party contract arrangements in place and also performed substantive testing to assess whether the elements delivered have been recognised in line with Group policy.
Supplier income Risk description As disclosed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group periodically receives commercial income, bonuses or other rebates from suppliers.
As set out in note 3 the amount received in the current year was 13 million 2016: 13 million.
Due to the judgement required in determining the commercial substance ofthe arrangement, as well as the complexity of certain arrangements, there is a risk that these are incorrectly accounted for or recognised in the wrong accounting period and that all arrangements are not disclosed.
This risk is discussed further in the report of the Audit Committee on page 42.
How the scope of our We held discussions with the relationship managers for the major suppliers across the group and reviewed audit responded to supplier accounts to identify significant credits from suppliers.
For significant credit items we reviewed the the risk relevant agreements to understand the terms and conditions associated with the transaction and associated commercial rationale.
Based on our review of the agreements, we challenged managements recognition of theaccounting treatment of credits recognised from suppliers including re-calculations of amounts recognised.
We also reviewed all significant credits posted against supplier accounts in the year to confirm the completeness of all supplier arrangements entered into.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 69 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Recoverability of deferred tax assets Risk description As disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements the Group has significant carried forward tax losses of 606million 2016: 650 million for which the utilisation depends upon a complex allocation of the Groups profits to particular loss pools.
The recognition of deferred tax assets and provisions against any unrecoverable portion is a significant management judgement due to the reliance on future forecasts.
How the scope of our We engaged our tax specialists to challenge managements approach to the deferred tax assets recognised in audit responded to the year including the decision to continue to use a 10 year forecast for the recognition of deferred tax assets the risk in respect of losses.
We have considered if the forecasts being used for these purposes have been updated to align to the Group forecast and have challenged the key assumptions, being the forecast cash flow projections and the discount rates applied.
We assessed historical forecasting accuracy and benchmarked the discount rate and growth rates employed to available market data.
We considered ongoing correspondence with HMRC and the impact that this has on any judgements and the accounting treatment applied by management.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andinevaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 4.0m 2016: 4.8m Basis for determining 3% of Headline profit before taxation.
Profit before taxation has been adjusted by removing the effect of materiality exceptional items.
Please see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details of these.
Rationale for the Headline profit before taxation has been used as a base as it is a key performance indicator of the group and is benchmarkapplied of particular interest to shareholders.
Group materiality 4m Component materiality range 2.4m to 3.2m Headline PBT 133m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.2m Headline PBT Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000 2016: 96,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reporting threshold has been made following our reassessment of what matters require communicating.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
70 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment and consistent with the prior year, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units.
Each of these were subject to a full audit and together they represent over 99% 2016: over 99% of the Groups total revenues.
Specific focused audit work was performed over Group functions, including those covering treasury and taxation.
Together this covered 96% of Headline profit before taxation 2016: 95% and 93% of net assets 2016: 97%.
Ouraudit work at each division was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 2.4m to 3.2m 2016: 2.8m to 3.8m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process, performed our work on all key judgement areas and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information ofthe remaining components not subject to audit.
Our scoping assessment across the overall Group has been outlined below.
4% 7% 1% Headline profit Full audit scope Revenue Net assets Review at group level before tax 99% 96% 93% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate forour audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report arising from ofdirectors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report these matters.
tobe audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance We have nothing to report arising from Statementrelating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate our review.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 71 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required We confirm that we have not to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: identifiedanysuch inconsistencies ormisleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual reportappropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them inanauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sharon Thorne FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 10 May 2017 72 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017
