Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: 3i Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited 3i Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Company statement of financial position as at 31 March 2017 to 31 March 2017 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2017 Company statement of changes in equity for the year to 31 March 2017 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year to Company cash ow statement for the year to 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 Consolidated cash ow statement for the year to 31 March 2017 significant accounting policies significant accounting policies Related Notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements Related Notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, asregards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments.
Incorrect calculation of carried interest.
Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and of realised profits on disposal of investments.
Incorrect accounting treatment of the sale of the Debt Management business and calculation of the profit ondisposal.
The first two risks are considered to be significant risks, consistent with the 2016 audit.
Audit scope The Group is principally managed from one location in London.
All core functions, including finance and operations, are located in London.
The Group operates eight international ofces which are primarily responsible for deal origination and investment portfolio monitoring.
The Group comprises 67 consolidated subsidiaries and 45 investment entity subsidiaries.
Monitoring and control over the operations of these subsidiaries, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
The London based Group audit team performed direct audit procedures on all items material to the Group financial statements.
Our audit sample covered 99% of the investment portfolio and 99% of carried interest accruals.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 58m 2016: 44m which represents 1% of net assets.
What has changed Incorrect accounting treatment of the sale of the Debt Management business and calculation of the profit ondisposal is included as a risk of material misstatement.
We have included this risk in the 2017 audit as the saleof the Debt Management business is a significant unusual transaction for the Group, outside the normal course ofbusiness.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 149 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk Group and parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 99% of the related amount.
Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments We obtained an understanding of managements processes and controls for determining the fair valuation of unquoted proprietary investments by performing Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages walkthrough procedures.
This included discussing with management the valuation 69 to 73 : significant accounting policies pages 108 to 111 : governance structure and protocols around their oversight of the valuation process and Notes 10, 11 and 12 of the financial statements pages and corroborating our understanding by attending Valuations Committee meetings.
120 to 124 We have identied key controls in the process, assessed the design adequacy and The proprietary investment portfolio comprises a number tested the operating effectiveness of those controls.
We relied on controls over ofunquoted securities.
In the Consolidated statement of portfolio company and comparable company data used in the valuation of financial position these are shown both as Investments which unquoted investments.
are held directly by consolidated subsidiaries of the Group We compared managements valuation methodology to IFRS and the IPEV and Parent Company, and as Investments in investment guidelines.
We sought explanations from management where there are judgments entity subsidiaries which are typically limited partnerships applied in their application of the guidelines, discussed and assessed their and other holding structures.
In the Company statement of appropriateness.
financial position these are shown both as investments which are held directly by the Parent Company, and as Investments With the assistance of our valuations specialists, we formed an independent range in investment entities which are included within the Interests for the key assumptions used in the valuation of a sample of unquoted investments in Group entities lineitem.
within the private equity business line, with reference to relevant industry and market valuation considerations.
We derived a range of fair values using our assumptions The Group adopts a valuation methodology based on the and other qualitative risk factors.
We compared these ranges to managements fair International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation values, and discussed our results with both management and the Valuations Guidelines IPEV Guidelines December 2015, in Committee.
conformity with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Owing tothe unquoted and illiquid nature of these investments, With respect to unquoted investments in the private equity business line, on a theassessment of fair valuation is subjective and requires sample basis we corroborated key inputs in the valuation models, such as earnings anumber of significant and complex judgments to be made and net debt to source data.
We also performed the following procedures on key by management.
The exit value will be determined by the judgments made by management in the calculation of fair value: market at the time of realisation and therefore despite the assessed the suitability of the comparable companies used in the calculation valuation policy adopted and judgments made by ofthe earnings multiples: management, the final sales value on realisation may differ challenged management on the applicability of adjustments made to earnings materially from the valuation at the year end date.
multiples, obtained rationale and supporting evidence for adjustments made: There is the risk that inaccurate judgments made in the performed corroborative calculations to assess the appropriateness of discount assessment of fair value, in particular in respect of: earnings rates: and multiples, the application of liquidity discounts, calculation of discussed the adjustments made to calculate future maintainable earnings and discount rates and the estimation of future maintainable corroborated this to supporting documentation.
earnings, could lead to the incorrect valuation of the On a sample basis, we veried the valuation of unquoted investments retained from unquoted proprietary investment portfolio.
In turn, this could the Debt Management business to broker quotes and other data from third party materially misstate the value of the investment portfolio in pricing sources used by management in the calculation of fair value.
the Statement of financial position, the Gross investment We checked the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models on a sample basis.
return and Total return in the Consolidated statement of We recalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments impacting comprehensive income and the Net asset value per share.
the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
There is also the risk that management may inuence the We discussed with management and understood the rationale for any differences significant judgments and estimations in respect of unquoted between the exit prices of investments realised during the year and the prior year proprietary investment valuations in order to meet market fair value, to further assess the reasonableness of the current year valuation expectations of the overall Net asset value of the Group.
assumptions and methodology adopted by management.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: The valuation of the unquoted proprietary investment portfolio is determined to be within a reasonable range of fair values.
All valuations tested have been recognised in accordance with IFRS and the IPEV Guidelines.
Appropriate inputs to the valuations were used and the valuations calculated by management are within a reasonable range.
Based on our procedures performed we had no material matters to report to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
150 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Risk Our response to the risk Group and parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 99% of the related amount.
Incorrect calculation of carried interest We obtained an understanding of managements processes and controls for thecalculation of carried interest by performing walkthrough procedures, and Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report discussing with management the governance structure and protocols around their page69 to 73 : and Notes 11 and 13 of the financial oversight of the carried interest arrangements.
Given the manual nature of the statements pages 121 and 125 calculation, although controls were deemed to be designed effectively, we adopted Carried interest receivable is an accrual of the share of the a substantive approach to our testing.
profits from funds managed by the Group on behalf of third We agreed a sample of calculation methodologies to their respective terms and parties.
Carried interest payable is an accrual of amounts conditions set out in the underlying agreements.
payable to investment executives in respect of the returns onsuccessful investments both from Group proprietary Our audit procedures on the fair value of the underlying investments are described capital and third-party capital.
Carried interest is only paid in the preceding risk section.
We performed analytical procedures comparing the onrealisation of investments.
performance of the reference investments in each fund or scheme, taking into account the investment realisations, to the related accruals in the financial Carried interest receivable and payable is calculated as statements.
apercentage of the profits that would be achieved, if the investments within each fund or scheme were realised at fair On a sample basis we: value at the year end date, subject to the relevant hurdle recalculated the returns on the fund or scheme to test that hurdles or performance rates or performance conditions being met.
conditions had been met where carried interest was being accrued: Judgment is required in determining the fair value of the recalculated the carried interest accruals for mathematical accuracy and agreed investment portfolio as described in the preceding risk the investment fair values to our audit work on the fair value of the investment section and therefore, whether hurdles or performance portfolio, the fee rates to the relevant agreements and realised gains to our audit conditions have been achieved.
work on realised profits: determined the reasonableness of investment exit dates with reference to our There are multiple carried interest arrangements in place and audit work on the fair value of the investment portfolio and our understanding investment executives may participate in more than one ofthe life cycle of the relevant investments, and then compared this against the scheme.
These arrangements have been structured over anticipated payment dates used to discount the carried interest accrual: and multiple periods and include different pools of investments.
veried the resulting cash ows to approvals and bank statement payments.
The process of calculating carried interest receivable and payable relies onmanual calculations.
Due to the complexities inherent in the arrangements and the manual nature of the recognition process, there is a risk that the carried interest calculations are incorrectly calculated or recognised in the wrong period.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify any matters regarding the recognition of carried interest in accordance with IFRS.
All calculations tested have been performed in accordance with contractual terms.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 151 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Risk Our response to the risk Group and parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 69% of the related amount.
Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and of realised We obtained an understanding of managements processes and controls around profits on disposal of investments accounting for portfolio income and realised gains by performing walkthrough procedures.
We identied key controls in the processes, assessed design adequacy Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages and tested operating effectiveness of those controls.
Controls were deemed to be 69 to 73 : significant accounting policies pages 108 to 111 : designed and operating effectively.
and Notes 2 and 11 of the financial statements page 115 and 121 We performed detailed testing on a sample of transactions to confirm whether they had been appropriately recorded in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive Portfolio income is directly attributable to the return from income.
This includes: dividends from investee companies and income from loans and receivables.
For portfolio income, on a sample basis, we: agreed dividends from investee company to the dividend notice: and Realised profits originate from disposals of investments.
recalculated interest income based on the terms of the underlying agreements.
Realised profits are calculated as the difference between the For realised gains, on a sample basis, we: net proceeds and the investments fair value at the beginning of the year.
analysed the contract and terms of the sale to determine whether the Group had met the stipulated requirements, conrming that the net proceeds and therefore Market expectations and revenue based targets may place the realised profit over opening value could be reliably measured: and pressure on management to inuence the recognition of re-performed managements calculations to determine mathematical accuracy portfolio income or realised gains.
This may result in and confirmed the collection of the net proceeds by agreeing the cash receipt overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting tobank statements.
current or future targets or expectations.
For all samples selected for testing we veried that revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
We performed enquiries of management and read minutes of meetings throughout the year and subsequent to the year end in order to address the risk of management override of controls to defer revenue recognition.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify any material matters regarding the recognition of portfolio income and of realised profits on disposal of investments.
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms and IFRS.
Based on our procedures performed wehad no material matters to report to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Risk Our response to the risk Group only risk We performed the following procedures: Incorrect accounting treatment of the sale of the Debt read the contract and terms of the sale to verify that the Group met the Management business and calculation of the profit on requirements to derecognise the disposal group: disposal re-performed managements calculations of the profit on disposal, checkedmathematical accuracy and veried collection of the net proceeds and Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages accuracy of their recording by agreeing the cash receipts to bank statements: 69 to 73 : and Note 31 of the financial statements pages 147 performed testing over the amounts classied on the Consolidated statement to148 ofcomprehensive income as income from a discontinued operation, for accuracy and for compliance with IFRSs: and The sale of the Debt Management business completed on reviewed the accounting treatment of the disposed Debt Management business 3March 2017.
The transaction resulted in a profit on disposal line and related disclosures in the financial statements, for compliance with IFRS 5. and discontinued operations recorded within the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The sale of the Debt Management business, is a transaction outside the normal course of business for the Group and has anumber of associated risks, including: the complex and manual nature of the calculation of profit on disposal, and the complexities involved in accounting in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 5.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify any material matters regarding the sale of the Debt Management business and calculation of the profit on disposal.
The transaction has been recognised and disclosed in the financial statements in accordance with contractual terms and IFRS.
152 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk prole, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The investment portfolio balance is the most material part of the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Monitoring and control over the valuation of investments is exercised by management centrally in London, and as such is audited wholly by the London based Group audit team.
Monitoring and control over the operations of the subsidiaries within the Group, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and Parent company audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit work on the risks of material misstatement identied above.
Involvement with component teams All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on theaudit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 58m 2016: 44m, which is 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
We believe that net assets provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality, and is the most relevant measure to the stakeholders ofthe entity.
We calculated materiality during the planning stage of the audit then reassessed it based on the 31 March 2017 net asset value, andadjusted our audit procedures accordingly.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level theprobability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 29m 2016: 22m.
This is at the lower end of the range of 50% to 75%.
In arriving at 50%, we considered the judgmental nature of the valuations in the Consolidated statement of financial position and the relative value of transactions recorded in the other primary statements, to ensure that total uncorrected andundetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality of 58m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of2.9m 2016: 2.0m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrantedreporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light ofother relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications forour report.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 153 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 99, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual reportis: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider theannual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course ofthe audit, we have identied no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 98 and longer-term viability, set out onpage 49: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception: We have no exceptions to report in respect of any of the responsibilities above.
154 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to inrelation to: the directors conrmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Conclusion We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above.
Julian Young Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 17 May 2017 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 155 Portfolio and otherinformation 20 Large investments The 20 investments listed below account for 89% of the portfolio at 31 March 2017 31 March 2016: 70%.
This table does not include two investments that have been excluded for commercial reasons.
For each of our investments we have assessed whether they classify as accounting subsidiaries under IFRS and or subsidiaries under the UK Companies Act.
This assessment forms the basis of our disclosure of accounting subsidiaries in the financial statements.
The UK Companies Act defines a subsidiary based on voting rights, with a greater than 50% majority of voting rights resulting in an entity being classied as a subsidiary.
IFRS 10 applies a wider test and, if a Group is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the investee then it has control, and hence the investee is deemed an accounting subsidiary.
Controlled subsidiaries under IFRS are noted below.
None of these investments are UK Companies Act subsidiaries.
In accordance with Part 5 of The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 the Regulations, 3i Investments plc, as AIFM, requires all controlled portfolio companies to make available to employees an annual report which meets the disclosure requirements of the Regulations.
These are available either on the portfolio companys website or through ling with the relevant local authorities.
Residual Residual 1 1 Business line cost cost Valuation Valuation Geography March March March March Relevant Investment First invested in 2016 2017 2016 2017 transactions Description of business Valuationbasis m m m m in the year Action Private Equity 1 1 902 1,708 Renancing returned Non-food discount retailer Benelux 187mofproceeds 2011 Earnings 3i Infrastructure plc Infrastructure 270 399 464 655 Invested 131m in 3iNs Quoted investment company, UK capital raise investing in infrastructure 2007 Quoted Scandlines Private Equity 114 114 369 538 Ferry operator between Denmark Denmarkand Germany Germany 2007 2013 DCF Q Holding Private Equity 100 162 120 222 Further investment to support Manufacturer of precision US Q Holdings investment in engineered elastomeric 2014 Degania components Earnings Weener Plastic Private Equity 151 161 173 200 Supplier of plastic packaging Germany solutions 2015 Earnings Audley Travel Private Equity 161 177 158 185 Provider of experiential UK tailormadetravel 2015 Earnings Basic-Fit Private Equity 99 11 208 184 Listed on Amsterdam Stock Discount gyms operator Benelux Exchange in June 2016 and 2013 returned 82m of proceeds Quoted ATESTEO Private Equity 83 39 130 160 Renancing returned International transmission Germany 48m of proceeds testingspecialist 2013 Earnings Schlemmer Private Equity 162 154 New investment Provider of cable management Germany solutions forthe automotive 2016 industry Earnings 156 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Portfolio and otherinformation Residual Residual 1 1 Business line cost cost Valuation Valuation Geography March March March March Relevant Investment First invested in 2016 2017 2016 2017 transactions Description of business Valuationbasis m m m m in the year BoConcept Private Equity 140 146 New investment Urban living brand Denmark 2016 Earnings Ponroy Sant Private Equity 123 122 New investment Manufacturer of natural France healthcare and cosmetics 2017 products Earnings AES Engineering Private Equity 30 30 92 113 Manufacturer of mechanical UK sealsand support systems 1996 Earnings Tato Private Equity 2 2 80 112 Manufacturer and seller UK  1989 Earnings Christ Private Equity 99 101 117 98 Distributor and retailer Germany of jewellery 2014 Earnings Euro-Diesel Private Equity 52 57 59 95 Manufacturer of uninterruptible Benelux power supply systems 2015 Earnings Aspen Pumps Private Equity 70 78 64 88 Manufacturer of pumps UK andaccessories for the 2015 airconditioning, heating Earnings andrefrigeration industry Global Income Fund Other 48 66 52 79 Further investment of Debt Management open UK 24m ended fund with exposure to 2015 North America and western Fund European issuers MKM Private Equity 23 24 53 68 Sale announced with Building materials supplier UK proceeds of 70m 2006 Imminent sale OneMed Group Private Equity 124 130 60 59 Distributor of consumable Sweden medical products, 2011 devices and technology Earnings Dynatect Private Equity 65 65 63 56 Manufacturer of engineered, US mission critical protective 2014 equipment Earnings 1,492 2,042 3,164 5,042 Controlled in accordance with IFRS.
1 Residual cost includes capitalised interest.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 157
