STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion: 3 RPC Group Plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: 3 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: 3 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 3 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: 3 the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2017: 3 the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: 3 the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: 3 the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and 3 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH CONTEXT The context for our audit is set by RPCs acquisition activity during the year, and the continued integration of previous acquisitions from prior years which has resulted in significant exceptional and non-underlying items.
In particular, the Group has completed nine acquisitions in the current year, with the four largest being the acquisitions of British Polythene Industries Plc BPI, Plastiape S. p. A Plastiape, ESE World B. V. ESE and Letica Corporation, Letica Development, Inc. and Letica Resources, Inc. together Letica.
OVERVIEW 3 Overall Group materiality: 14.3m which represents 5% of profit before tax after adding back the exceptional and non-underlying items as set out in note 4.
3 Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements, we performed audits of the complete financial information of 42 components 2016: 28 components, and specific audit procedures focused on areas of significant risk in Materiality respect of a further 20 components 2016: 15 components.
3 In addition, the Parent Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, the fair value adjustments relating to acquisitions, goodwill and intangible asset impairment Audit scope assessments and the consolidation were audited by the Group audit team.
3 The components on which audits of the complete financial information, specific audit procedures and centralised work was performed, Areas of accounted for 65% of Group revenue.
focus 3 As part of our supervision process, the Group audit team visited component auditors in France, Norway and the UK and visited the US inorder to perform audit work over Letica.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC Continued Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: 3 Acquisition accounting.
This includes current year significant acquisitions, hindsight adjustments on previous acquisitions, and deferred and contingent consideration on certain previous acquisitions.
3 Presentation and disclosure of exceptional and non-underlying items.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING Current year significant acquisitions fair value of acquired assets Refer to Risk profile on page 27, Audit Committee report on page 64, and liabilities Principal accounting policies on page 99 and to the Acquisition of For each of the four significant acquisitions: subsidiary undertakings note on page 132.
3 We read the sale and purchase agreement in order to understand the nature of Current year significant acquisitions fair value of acquired the transaction and ensure that relevant clauses that impact the accounting had assets and liabilities been considered by the directors: The Group made the following significant acquisitions during the year: 3 We tested the fair values ascribed to intangible assets by understanding 3 100% of the share capital of BPI on 1 August 2016 for consideration the assumptions adopted in the valuation model, which critically include of 274.5m: the forecast attrition rate in relation to existing customers, the expected longevity of the relationships and the sales and margin forecasts.
We engaged 3 100% of the share capital of Plastiape on 24 November 2016 for and evaluated the work of our specialists who validated those underlying consideration of 116.7m: assumptions and confirmed that the directors had adopted reasonable 3 100% of the share capital of ESE on 31 January 2017 for assumptions in each circumstance: consideration of 233.3m: and 3 We engaged our property valuation specialists to review the methodologies 3 100% of the share capital of Letica on 9 March 2017 for adopted and key assumptions utilised in valuing the freehold properties.
This included benchmarking key assumptions to external market data.
The fair values were consistent with the evidence obtained: The Group also made five smaller acquisitions during the year, but we have focused our work on the four larger acquisitions due to their 3 We tested plant and equipment valuations by considering the reliability of the relative size and significance to the Group as a whole.
directors experts where used, by using external market information where available and reviewing key assumptions utilised by the directors including We focused on this area because the accounting treatment for the the age, condition and useful economic lives of assets.
The fair values were provisional opening balance sheet is inherently judgemental and consistent with the evidence obtained: requires the directors to exercise many judgements, including in respect of the fair values of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, 3 We tested the provision for out of market contracts by considering the range of provisions and other assets and liabilities, and the calculation of margins used in the underlying calculations to determine whether the contract associated goodwill.
We confirmed that the methodology used by the directors is consistent with that adopted for previous acquisitions in prior years and GCS hindsight adjustments reasonable in light of available data: and A hindsight review was performed during the year in respect of the GCS 3 For the remaining fair values of other assets and liabilities, we evaluated the acquisition, where the provisional fair values recognised on acquisition assessment and calculation of material assets and provisions to check that they were reassessed and provisions were increased by 2.3m and assets are accurate and reflect information that was known in relation to events that reduced by 4.7m.
A hindsight adjustment of 4.0m has also been existed at the transaction dates.
made to increase the level of deferred tax assets.
86 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Ace and Letica deferred and contingent consideration We note that the generated goodwill on the four significant acquisitions of 667.2m is the residual value of the consideration over and above the fair value of The directors have reconsidered their estimate of the deferred and acquired net assets.
We consider that the directors assessment of the provisional contingent consideration that is likely to be payable in relation to fair value of the opening balance sheets of these acquisitions to be supportable.
Based on the information currently available to them, they considered the provision in the light of their current GCS hindsight adjustments expectations as to the amount of consideration which they believe Due to the GCS fair values having been provisional at the previous year end, a willbe payable in May 2018 based on performance to the end of hindsight review was performed by the directors in the current year.
the earn-out period in December 2017 and released 23.0m ofthe provision.
Additional provisions of 2.3m were recognised in relation to liabilities that the directors concluded existed at the acquisition date and 4.7m of assets were derecognised The directors have also considered the estimate of deferred and where the directors identified that they did not have a fair value in the opening balance contingent consideration that is likely to be payable in relation to the sheet.
Deferred tax assets of 4.0m were recognised in relation to assets that were acquisition of Letica at the end of the earn-out period to June 2019. recoverable at the acquisition date.
The evidence obtained supported the value of the adjustments made and that these conditions existed at the time of acquisition.
We also reviewed the out of market contract provision with reference to understanding any new information that had been identified in the hindsight period that existed at the time of the acquisition.
Our procedures did not identify any required adjustments.
Ace and Letica deferred and contingent consideration We reviewed the basis of this calculation and verified the expected future performance to the directors forecasts and the underlying agreements to conclude that the provisions at the end of the period are reasonable based on information that is currently available.
PRESENTATION AND DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy and whether AND NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS those items disclosed as exceptional and non-underlying were consistent with Refer to Risk profile on page 27, Audit Committee report on page 64, the accounting policy and the approach taken in previous accounting periods.
Principal accounting policies on page 99 and to the Non-underlying In particular: items note on page 109.
3 For the 56.1m of integration costs, our work confirmed that these costs were The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as associated with projects of an exceptional nature and related to specific exceptional and non-underlying in nature.
These include exceptional integration plans as a result of previous acquisitions.
As well as agreeing a items included in operating costs consisting of 56.1m of integration sample of these costs to supporting evidence the Group audit team, including costs relating to the ongoing Promens and GCS integration programmes the Group Audit Partner visited an RPC site in Germany which had been as well as the integration programme for BPI.
Also included as significantly impacted by the restructuring and integration programme.
As part exceptional items included in operating costs are 18.9m of acquisition of this visit, the Group audit team were able to see the improvements that had costs, an impairment charge on property, plant and equipment of been made to the site as well as meeting with the RPC Director of Business 12.0m, a net release of 11.2m of the provision for deferred and Improvement and the respective Divisional Finance Directors for RPC Bramlage contingent consideration, the majority of which is in relation to the Ace and RPC Promens to discuss the detailed plans of the integration programmes acquisition as described above and other costs of 8.4m.
in total: Non-underlying items include amortisation of acquired intangibles of 3 For acquisition related costs of 18.9m we agreed a sample of these costs to 31.0m, certain financial income and expense items of 15.2m, the tax supporting evidence to verify that they were one-off in nature and related to impact on the above listed items of 23.2m and a tax credit of 19.2m specific acquisitions completed or abandoned in the year: arising on losses previously generated in Promens and GCS that have 3 For the impairment charge of 12.0m on property, plant and equipment and been accessed during the year.
assets held for sale we tested the directors impairment models, ensuring that We focused on this area because non-underlying items are not defined the carrying value reflected the higher of either the fair value of future cash by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the directors must flows or the expected realisable value of the assets from disposal: therefore apply judgement to identify such items.
Incorrect classification 3 For our audit response on the deferred and contingent consideration on the Ace of these items could lead to misinterpretation of the financial results.
acquisition, see the acquisition accounting area of focus above: 87 WWW.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC Continued AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS 3 For other exceptional and non-underlying items, we verified a sample of the items to supporting evidence and ensured a consistent application of the accounting policy to prior periods: and 3 For the tax credit of 19.2m arising on losses that are now accessible, we engaged our tax specialists to confirm the availability of the losses and the tax rates applied and we confirmed that the recognition of the tax credit was a one-off material event and therefore met the accounting policy definition of non-underlying.
As the non-underlying items include both costs and income, we have considered other items within the Consolidated income statement to confirm completeness of the classification.
We found the Groups accounting policy to be appropriate and the classification of items to be consistent with the accounting policy and the treatment of similar items in prior years.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along seven divisions being RPC Ace, RPC Bebo, RPC bpi, RPC Bramlage, RPC M&H, RPC Promens and RPC Superfos, each with their own Finance Director who reports into the Group finance team.
Each division contains multiple components, across different regions, which are consolidated to form the Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple components, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
These components maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each component and we used auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this work.
Accordingly, of the Groups multiple components, we identified 42 which, in our view, required a full audit of their complete financial information in order to ensure that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained.
The components on which a full audit of their complete financial information was performed accounted for 55% of Group revenue.
There are no individually significant components due to size or risk profile.
Specific audit procedures focused on areas of significant risk in respect of a further 20 components were performed with due consideration paid to obtaining global coverage on a rotational basis.
This scope involved sites in Belgium, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the USA.
The Group consolidation, financial statements disclosures and a number of centralised functions were audited by the Group audit team at the head office.
These included, but were not limited to, central procedures on post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, the fair value adjustments relating to acquisitions, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
We also performed Group level analytical procedures on all of the remaining out of scope components to identify whether any further audit evidence was needed, which resulted in no extra testing.
The Parent Company was also subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team.
The components on which audits of the complete financial information, specific audit procedures and centralised work was performed, accounted for 65% of Group revenue.
The Group audit team visits component auditors based on significance and or risk characteristics, as well as on a rotational basis to ensure coverage across the Group.
In the current year, the Group audit team visited component auditors in France, Norway and the UK and visited the US in order to perform audit work over Letica.
Additionally the Group audit team was in contact, at each stage of the audit, with all component teams through regular written communication in line with detailed instructions issued by the Group audit team.
In addition, for a number of the component teams, the Group team discussed in detail the planned audit approach at the component level and discussed the detailed findings of the audit with the component team.
88 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 3 14.3m 2016: 7.6m.
How we determined it 3 5% of profit before tax, after adding back exceptional and non-underlying items as set out in note 4.
Rationale for benchmark applied 3 We believe that profit before tax, after adding back exceptional and non-underlying items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
The exclusion of items classified as exceptional and non-underlying is consistent with previous periods.
Component materiality 3 For each reporting component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 170,000 and 4,000,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 550,000 2016: 380,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 83, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 3 the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and 3 the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC Continued ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 3 information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
3 the statement given by the directors on page 84, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions to report.
Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
3 the section of the Annual Report on page 66, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions to report.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: 3 The directors confirmation on page 68 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing material to add have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its or to draw attention to.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
3 The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
3 The directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing material to add they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period or to draw attention to.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 3 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or 3 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 3 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT - COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
90 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: 3 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 3 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and 3 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
MARK SMITH SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 7 June 2017 3 The maintenance and integrity of the RPC Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
3 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 91 WWW.
