Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of SSE plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSE plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 106 to 198.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: 75m 2016 75m Group financial statements as a whole 5% 2016 5% of profit before tax before exceptional items and before certain remeasurements Coverage 99% 2016 99% of group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Carrying value of certain non current assets Accounting for estimated revenue Recoverability of GB retail receivables Group pension obligation 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows unchanged from 2016 : The risk Our response Carrying value of Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: certain non-current Certain non-current assets tangible and intangible Assessing methodology: Assessing the principles assets and inventories significant and at risk of impairment due to a number and integrity of the cash flow model and agreeing 13.4bn: 2016 of global and national factors including low commodity certain of the inputs to source documents: 13.6bn prices, the type of plant owned, poor operating Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used, returns for thermal plant, the unpredictability of in particular those relating to future commodity prices Refer to page 72 Audit reserves in relation to exploration and production using our industry knowledge: Committee Report, assets.
The estimated recoverable amount is Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the groups pages 114, 161 and 162 subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved assumptions to externally derived data in relation to accounting policy in forecasting and discounting future cash flows.
key inputs such as future commodity prices, discount and page 139 financial rates or to historical data as a guide to expected disclosures.
futureoutcomes : Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows to the groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of non-current assets and inventory.
Provision for GB retail Subjective estimate Our procedures included: receivables There are significant trade receivables with customers Test of detail: Assessing and challenging the Directors 0.1bn: 2016 in GB with the risk of customer default remaining high, assumptions behind the provision against experience 0.1bn due to continued economic uncertainty and the fact of cash collection during the year and subsequent to that for domestic customers, gas and electricity bills the year end in relation to significant elements of the Refer to page 72 Audit can be a large part of income, resulting in significant receivables balance.
Ensuring the provision has been Committee Report, judgement being applied in the Groups assessment of accurately and consistently calculated: pages 115 and 166 the recoverability of these receivables.
Our sector experience: Assessing the Directors accounting policy assumptions behind the provision against trade and page 145 financial receivables against our own knowledge of bad disclosures.
debts experience by the group: and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
199 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued The risk Our response Accounting for Subjective estimate Our procedures included: estimated revenue Certain of the Groups energy sales revenues, Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the 0.8bn: 2016 where no bill has been issued at the year end date, are groups assumptions relating to volume and price 0.9bn based on estimates of the values of electricity and gas used in determining the level of estimated revenue, supplied to customers between the date of the last as follows: Refer to page 72 Audit meter reading and the year end estimated revenues.
Underlying assumption on volume Committee Report, The method of estimating such revenues is complex We compared volume data to the external settlements pages 114 and 159 and judgemental and requires estimates and systems and internal billing systems, having performed accounting policy assumptions to: testing of the controls over new customer and page 145 financial 1. estimate the volumes of energy consumed by authorisations, pricing calculations, billing exceptions, disclosures.
The groups estimated accrual for interfaces with the general ledger and price updates.
revenue at the year end is based on the closing To further corroborate the volumes used, we unbilled volume reflected within the financial compared the estimated volume determined by the statements in the prior year, with principal Group with benchmarks that the Group has developed adjustments made for gas or electricity distributed over a number of years using internal and external to customers as identified from the industry wide information and analysed and sought and assessed settlements system, and gas or electricity billed explanations for variances from that.
to customers as identified from the groups Underlying assumptions on price billing system : and We challenged the assumptions of price per unit 2. assess the value to be ascribed to that volume by comparing the price applied with current actual given the range of tariffs.
The group applies a billing internal trends and data.
Further, we assessed price per unit which is dependent on a number the overall consistency period on period of the of factors including location of customers and type assumptions and of the inputs to the calculation of billing arrangement to the estimate of volume of estimated value of revenue: of energy to be accrued at year end to arrive at the Analytical procedures: We set expectations as to total estimated value of energy sales between the the likely level of total revenue and compared this date of the last meter reading and the year end.
with the Groups estimate, obtaining explanations for significant differences.
We assess processes and controls giving rise to the Groups revenue as part of these procedures: and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the estimated revenue.
Group pension Subjective valuation Our procedures included: obligation Small changes in the assumptions and estimates Benchmarking assumptions: We assessed the 0.1bn surplus: used to value the groups pension obligation before independence and competence of the Groups 2016 0.4bn deficit deducting scheme assets would have a significant external actuaries challenging, with the support of our effect on the groups net pension surplus deficit.
own actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, Refer to page 72 Audit being the discount rate, mortality and inflation rate Committee Report, against externally derived data, In order to assess the page 114 and 165 reasonableness of these assumptions, we performed accounting policy a benchmarking exercise against other companies and page 152 financial assumptions: and disclosures.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 75 million 2016 75 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation, excluding exceptional items and certain remeasurements mainly fair value movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement, of which it represents 5% 2016 5%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 3 million 2016 3 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 232 2016 224 reporting components, audits for group reporting purposes were performed at 115 2016 127 components in the UK and Ireland.
These represent all components that we considered to be individually financially significant.
These audits accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: 97% 2016 98% of Group revenue, 99% 2016 98% of Group profit before tax: and 98% 2016 98% of Group net assets.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures were performed in relation to 12 2016 7 components which accounted for 2% 2016 1% of revenue and nil% 2016 1% of group profit before tax and 1% 2016 1% of group net assets.
The latter were SSE plc Annual Report 2017 200 1.
Financial Statements not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes but did present individual risks that needed to be addressed.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 8 million to 30 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 10 2016 10 of the components was performed by component auditors including the auditor of SGN, the groups most significant joint venture and the rest by the Group team.
The Group team issued reporting instructions to the component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered during their audit.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
Telephone calls were held with the component auditors including with the partner of the component auditor in respect of the audit of SGN as part of the assessment of the audit risk and strategy.
As part of the close out process further calls were held with component auditors and on these calls the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditors.
Profit before tax and before exceptional Materiality items and certain remeasurements 75m 2016 75m 1,510m 2016 1,451m 75m Whole financial statements materiality 2016 75m Profit before tax and before exceptional items and certain remeasurements 30m Group materiality Range of materiality at 115 components 8m 30m 2016 10m to 25m 3m Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016 3m Group revenue 99% 2016 99% Group profit before tax 99% 2016 99% 2% 1% 1% 98% 98% 97% 99% Group net assets 98% 2016 98% Group profit before exceptional items and taxation 99% 2016 99% 1% 1% 1% 1% F ull scope for group audit purposes 2017 S pecified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 98% 98% F ull scope for group audit purposes 2016 S pecified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 98% 98% Residual components 201 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement on longer-term viability on pages 24 to 27, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 2020: or the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement, set out on pages 72 and 27 respectively, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 to 97 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 100, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 319 St Vincent Street Glasgow, G2 5AS 16 May 2017 SSE plc Annual Report 2017 202 1.
Financial Statements Notes 203 Financial Statements Notes SSE plc Annual Report 2017 204 Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Manage your shares online The Companys register of members is maintained by our appointed eCommunications Programme Registrar, Capita Asset Services.
Shareholders with queries relating To manage your holding online, simply register through the to their shareholdings should contact Capita directly: Signal Portal, the online platform provided by Capita Registrars www.
com welcome which allows shareholders to: Capita Asset Services view their shareholding: Shareholder Solutions have dividends paid into their bank account: The Registry update personal details: 34 Beckenham Road sign up for electronic shareholder communication: Beckenham buy and sell shares online using Capitas share dealing service: and Kent vote in advance of company general meetings.
BR3 4TU If you have not used this service before, you will require your Telephone: 0345 143 4005 Investor Code IVC to register.
You will find this on your share Email: sse@capitaregistrars.
com certificate or on recent items of communication.
Financial calendar SSE encourages its shareholders to elect for electronic communications.
By joining our eCommunications Programme, Publication of Annual Report 16 June 2017 shareholders can help us to reduce our impact on the environment and save paper by choosing to receive shareholder documents AGM Perth and Trading Statement 20 July 2017 electronically.
Shareholders are notified by email that documents Ex-dividend date for final dividend 27 July 2017 such as the Annual Report or Notice of Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
Record Date for final dividend 28 July 2017 Final date for Scrip elections 25 August 2017 Amalgamation of multiple share accounts Payment date 22 September 2017 Many shareholders receive several copies of the annual report and dividend documentation who could merge their shareholdings.
Notification of Close Period by 30 September 2017 If you receive more than one copy of these documents you could Results for six months to 30 September 08 November 2017 help SSE reduce its impact on the environment and save paper by merging your accounts into one.
Please contact Capita Asset Services to amalgamate your accounts.
com, contains a wide range of information Keep us informed including a dedicated investors section where you can find further Keep us informed of changes to your email address by visiting information about shareholder services including: www.
com investors ecommsprogramme and follow the share price information: instructions under how to register or update your email address.
dividend history and trading graphs the Scrip Dividend Scheme: telephone and internet share dealing: and downloadable shareholder forms.
Digital news SSE use a dedicated news and views website available at www.
com newsandviews and Twitter www.
com sse to keep shareholders, investors, journalists, employees and other interested parties up-to-date with news from the Company.
Dividends The Company typically pays dividends twice yearly.
Interim dividends, are paid in March, and final dividends are paid in September once approved by shareholders at the AGM.
SSE encourages its shareholders to have dividends paid directly into their bank building society account, to ensure secure payment of funds on payment date whilst reducing the environmental impact through reduced print and paper use.
Shareholders who elect to receive their dividend payment in this way will only receive an annual dividend confirmation at the end of each financial year.
Any shareholder who requires a separate dividend confirmation for each dividend payment should contact Capita Asset Services.
SSE plc Annual Report 2017 For further information about SSE, please contact: SSE plc Corporate Affairs Inveralmond House 200 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 3AQ UK Tel: 44 0 1738 456000 Email: info@sse.
com Registered in Scotland No.
com Follow the latest news from SSE on Twitter at: www.
