Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Report on the Group financial statements in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial Our opinion statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
In our opinion, Tate & Lyle PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Our audit approach have been properly prepared in accordance with International Context Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The context of our audit was set by the Groups major activities in the year ended 31 March 2017 FY17.
FY17 was the first year have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of since the Groups re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture in the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Europe and the restructuring of activities in Singapore.
What we have audited Consequently these are no longer included as specific areas of The Group financial statements comprise: focus for FY17.
By comparison, FY17 involved fewer significant business changes, although the Group sold its interest in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 March Howbetter, China and restructured its Food Systems blending 2017: sites in Europe.
the consolidated income statement and consolidated The goodwill associated with Gemacom, the Groups Food statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Systems business in Brazil was previously identified by the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then management as sensitive to reasonably possible changes in ended: assumptions.
Subsequently management has recorded an the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year impairment of 16 million in FY17.
Goodwill and intangible asset then ended: and impairment has been added as an area of focus given the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which management judgement is exercised in this area.
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our other areas of focus have been further refined to reflect certain developments in the Group during FY17.
Materiality Overall Group materiality: 12 million, which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations adding back the Groups share of tax of joint ventures and associates and exceptional items, which is our defined profit measure.
Materiality Audit scope Our audit included full-scope audits of six reporting components Tate & Lyle PLC, Tate & Lyle International Finance, the US Bulk Ingredients business, the US Speciality Food Ingredients business, the US Sucralose business and G. C. Hahn and Company Limited in Wales with specified audit procedures performed at a further three reporting components Tate & Lyle Services Slovakia, T&L Insurance Gibraltar and the US Tax Group.
Audit Scope Taken together, the components at which audit work was performed accounted for 82% of consolidated sales and 63% of our profit measure as defined above.
This percentage is calculated on an absolute basis, which aggregates component profits and losses, ignoring sign convention.
Our audit covered all components that individually contributed more than 10% of Areas of consolidated sales and of our profit measure as defined above.
Focus Areas of focus Commodity risk: Complex tax accounting and uncertain tax positions: Retirement benefit obligations and assets: and Goodwill and intangible asset impairment.
1 Consolidated sales profit 2 2 1 Reporting 1 Reporting components: 82% components: 63% 2 Other 2 Other 1 components: 18% components: 37% 1 1 As dened above.
100 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 100 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commodity risk We understood and evaluated managements process for managing the commodity price risk inherent within its Refer to Notes 2, 28 and 29. commodity positions and compared it with managements The Groups accounting policy is to mark-to-market at each underlying risk management and accounting policies.
No balance sheet date its commodity positions, including its forward matters were identified that would indicate that the risk sales and purchase contracts with customers and grain management and accounting policies were not being followed.
In addition, certain commodity raw material We obtained managements forward pricing sheet for inventories are measured at net realisable value.
The Group commodities used in its mark-to-market calculations.
For manages the commodity price risk on sales and purchase those commodities with an actively traded market, we assessed contracts by taking long and short positions and through the use the consistency of the forward prices with those published by of derivative financial instruments.
For those commodities This was an area of focus due to the complexity of the where an active futures market does not exist principally calculations and the judgement involved in the valuation of co-products and for the basis adjustments made, we certain commodities positions, most notably co-products that do understood and challenged managements methodology not have an actively traded futures market.
These co-products for determining the valuations, including the inputs and include corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and corn oil.
To further assess the reasonableness of Additionally, basis adjustments are made to certain commodity the forward prices estimated by management, we performed valuations to reflect market conditions, which necessitate trend analyses against similar market or exchange traded further management judgement.
commodities and compared certain ratios of co-product prices The fair values of commodities pricing contracts as at 31 March against historical ratios.
2017 were assets of 29 million and liabilities of 16 million.
In addition to testing the forward price estimates, we audited the calculations of the fair value and associated unrealised gains and losses on the commodity based positions.
We found that managements forward price estimates and the calculations of fair value of positions were reasonable and supported by market observable data, where appropriate.
Where management had calculated values by reference to non-market observable data, we found that these were within acceptable ranges.
For derivative financial instruments, which were used to manage the commodity price risk, we independently confirmed these positions with the counterparty and recalculated the fair value of the positions held.
We found that the fair values of these derivative financial instruments were supported by the confirmations and recalculations.
com 101 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Complex tax accounting and uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US and international tax and transfer pricing specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements Refer to Notes 2 and 12. judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and The nature of the Groups multinational and cross-border contingencies, in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax operations exposes it to complicated tax regulations.
This included obtaining a detailed understanding of the requires management to exercise judgement in determining the Groups key technical tax matters and risks related to business and appropriate amount of tax to provide in respect of tax obligations legislative developments.
In addition, certain financing We recalculated managements valuation of its tax provisions and arrangements that the Group has entered into, while not determined whether the calculations were in line with the Groups uncommon or unduly aggressive, have been previously subject methodology and principles, and whether they had been applied on to enquiry by tax authorities.
The result of enquiries by tax a basis consistent with previous years.
We also examined authorities could materially affect the quantum of tax provisions managements ongoing analysis of its financing arrangements and recognised in the Group financial statements.
At 31 March 2017 considered recent correspondence with the tax authorities.
Tate & Lyle had centrally held provisions for uncertain tax positions of 34 million 2016 31 million.
From the evidence obtained, we concluded that the level of provisioning was acceptable.
Additionally, the Group has executed transactions during FY17 for which the accounting and current and deferred tax Additionally, we assessed the appropriateness of judgements and considerations required substantial analysis.
These transactions estimates, as they pertain to taxation in transactions executed have given rise to exceptional deferred tax assets of 65 million.
during FY17 and concluded they were appropriate.
The valuation of the exceptional deferred tax assets of 65 million was judgemental and we assessed the key assumptions made by the Group and concluded they were appropriate.
In respect of the deferred tax asset of 34 million relating to previously unrecognised tax losses, we also confirmed its recoverability as reasonable against expected future taxable profit.
Retirement benefit obligations and assets We understood and evaluated the assumptions used by the Groups actuaries and management in calculating the Refer to Notes 2 and 30. retirement benefit obligations for the defined benefit pension The Group has significant retirement benefit obligations in the plans in the UK and the US and the unfunded retirement UK and the US, including unfunded retirement medical plans in medical scheme in the US.
At 31 March 2017 the present value of these obligations In conjunction with our pensions specialists we challenged the was 1,769 million 2016 1,634 million offset by plan assets at actuarial assumptions by comparing these against benchmark fair value of 1,630 million 2016 1,426 million in respect of ranges based on the market conditions and expectations at funded schemes.
Based on our review of the assumptions, These retirement benefit obligations were determined based on in each case we found that the actuarial assumptions used a number of actuarial assumptions and calculations, which were were reasonable and sat within our acceptable range and, subject to significant judgement and estimate.
Changes in these where appropriate, were applied on a basis consistent with assumptions can have a material impact on the quantum of previous years.
obligations recorded in the consolidated statement of financial In addition, we independently confirmed the pension assets position.
held by the UK and US schemes with the third-party custodians During FY17, a triennial valuation was completed on the main and fund managers.
We also performed an independent UK scheme and a gain was recorded in the US following a assessment of the asset valuations and concluded that they lump-sum settlement in the year.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment We obtained the Groups annual impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including profit Refer to Notes 2 and 19. and cash flow growth or decline, terminal values and the At 31 March 2017 the Group has a net balance of 212 million of selection of discount rates.
We assessed the appropriateness of goodwill 2016 204 million.
In addition, the Group has 189 the discount rate and challenged managements other key million of intangible assets 2016 186 million comprising assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions with patents and other intellectual property, capitalised development industry and economic forecasts.
expenses and other acquired intangible assets.
We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in key on future cash flows and there is a risk that the assets will be assumptions and we performed our own independent impaired if these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations.
sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to The impairment reviews performed by the Group contained a managements models required to result in impairment.
number of judgements and estimates including revenue growth, With the exception of Biovelop, there is no reasonably possible the success of market and capacity expansion, profit margin, cash change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the conversion, terminal values and discount rates.
Changes in these impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that assumptions could lead to an impairment to the carrying value of would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment During the year, the Group recognised a 16 million impairment charges recognised during the year were appropriate.
charge against the carrying value of goodwill relating to the Gemacom business in Brazil, 2 million against the goodwill relating to Howbetter in China and 5 million in respect of other intangibles.
102 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 102 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured across two divisions: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, with a central support function.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the Groups reporting units, spread across the two divisions, which comprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions of more than 250 individual components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from PwC UK or other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components, in order to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included oversight visits, meetings with management and review of working papers at the Groups two significant components in the US and at the Global Shared Services centre in Poland.
We also attended the clearance meetings for these components.
In addition, we met with management in Slovakia and Wales, and the non-PwC firm audit team for the Groups joint venture in Mexico, and instructed PwC Mexico to review the working papers in respect of the audit work they performed.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 12 million 2016 10 million.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations 233 million adding back the Groups share of tax of joint ventures and associates 12 million and exceptional items 18 million, as defined in Note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations, which excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest from profit before tax.
The Group adjusts for exceptional items as it believes that doing so is necessary to provide an understanding of financial performance.
We have not used the Groups principal measure, as defined above, as our benchmark since the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest are recurring items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2016: 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 99, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 103 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 99, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 66, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material to add or to are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, draw attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
104 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 104 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Responsibilities for the financial statements Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our and the audit own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial Our responsibilities and those of the Directors statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of We test and examine information, using sampling and other Responsibilities set out on page 99, the Directors are auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary responsible for the preparation of the financial statements to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the information in the Annual Report to identify any material Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, become aware of any apparent material misstatements or accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent we consider whether those reports include the disclosures in writing.
required by applicable legal requirements.
What an audit of financial statements involves Other matters An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2017 reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
that is described as having been audited.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied for and on behalf of  LLP and adequately disclosed: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made London by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
24 May 2017 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle PLC website http: www.
com is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
