70 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Assura plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements ofthe Companies Act 2006 and, as regards theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 26 and A to F. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial statements isapplicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach Key risk The key risk that we identified in the current year was the valuation of the property portfolio excluding properties under development.
Materiality The materiality applied in the current year was 16.0 million, which was determined on the basis of 2% of net assets, and specific materiality applied was 1.9 million, which was determined on the basis of 5% of EPRA earnings as defined on page 38.
Significant changes inourapproach The following significant changes in our approach from the prior year comprise: Materiality In the prior year materiality was determined with reference to profit before tax, of which it represented 5%, whereas for the current year we have determined materiality for the Group based upon net assets with a lower specific materiality based upon the EPRA profit measure.
Risk identification In the prior year we identified a key risk in relation to acquisitions.
Although the Group has made corporate acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2017, this was not an area that had a significant effect on our audit strategy nor the allocation of resources in the audit, hence it is not considered to be a key risk in the current year.
We have also refined our key risk regarding valuation of the property portfolio toexclude the valuation of properties under development as a significant risk ofmaterial misstatement.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 71 Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern to in respect of these matters.
basis of accounting contained on page 66 of the Directors Report We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the of accounting and we did not identify any material uncertainties.
Group contained within the Strategic Report onpage 29.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be We are required to state whether we have anything material predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups toadd or draw attention to in relation to: abilityto continue as a going concern.
the Directors confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement on page 66 of the Directors Report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
72 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risk of material misstatement described below is that which had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Valuation of property portfolio excluding properties under development Risk description The Group owns and manages a portfolio of 398 modern primary healthcare properties that are carried at fair value in the financial statements.
The portfolio is valued at 1,315.3 million as at 31 March 2017 and comprises the majority of the assets in the Group balance sheet.
The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers, Savills and Jones Lang LaSalle the Valuers, to fair value the Groups portfolio twice annually.
The Valuers are engaged by the Directors and perform their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group are well-known firms and have considerable experience in the markets in which the Group operates.
The valuation of the portfolio is inherently subjective and is underpinned by a number of assumptions.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement on the income statement and balance sheet, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
In determining a propertys valuation, the Valuers take into account property-specific information such as current tenancy agreements and rental income attached to the asset.
The portfolio excluding development properties is valued by the investment method of valuation.
Key inputs into the valuation exercise are yields and Estimated Rental Value ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields, comparable market transactions and the specific characteristics of each property in the portfolio.
Valuation of property represents a key source of estimation uncertainty for the Group, as described in the Groups accounting policies on page 80, and a significant financial reporting matter considered by the Audit Committee, as described on page 51.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Given the inherent subjectivity involved in the valuation of investment properties, the need for deep market knowledge when determining the most appropriate assumptions, and the technicalities of a valuation methodology, we engaged our internal valuation specialists qualified chartered surveyors to assist us in our audit of this key risk area.
We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings with each of the Valuers.
We confirmed that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS guidance and suitable for use in determining the carrying value in the Group balance sheet.
We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered other engagements which exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether property-specific data supplied to the Valuers by management reflected the underlying property records held by the Group and which had been tested during our audit.
We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external Valuers, including managements experience and knowledge to undertake this activity.
We observed discussions between management and the Valuers which evidenced that alternative assumptions and recent market transactions were considered and evaluated before the final valuation was determined.
We compared the yields used by the Valuers to an estimated range of expected yields, determined via reference to published benchmarks, and to recent transactions.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable to published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value and void rates.
Additionally, we evaluated year-on-year movements in capital value with reference to published benchmarks.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise deemed unusual, and or valuations appeared to experience unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held further discussions with the Valuers in order to challenge the assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of the estimation and sensitivity to key assumptions made when valuing these properties disclosed in Note 10.
Key observations We found that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
com 73 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality Overall Group materiality Specific Group materiality 16.0 million.
Basis for determining materiality 2% of net assets.
Rationale for the benchmarkapplied In arriving at this judgement we had regard In addition to net assets, we consider to the carrying value of the Groups assets, EPRAearnings to be a critical financial acknowledging that the primary performance measure for the Group and we performance measure of the Group is the applied a lower threshold of 1.9 million based carrying value of investment property.
on less than 5% of that measure for testing ofall impacted balances, classes oftransactions and disclosures.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.5 million for 2015 16.
This was determined with reference to profit before tax, of which it represented 5%.
For 2016 17 we have determined materiality for the Group based uponnet assets with a lower specific materiality based upon the EPRA profit measure.
Given the growth in the business through acquisitions, we consider that these two measures better align with the principal considerations of the shareholders of the Group, and are more aligned to practices observed with industry peers.
This is a change to the approach adopted last year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 800,000 2016: 30,000, or 95,000 for differences impacting EPRA, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its internal and external environment.
This included assessing Group-wide controls, assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, and in particular looking at where the Directors make subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates or adoption of accounting policies that are underpinned by a number of assumptions.
As in all our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The Group is audited in its entirety by the Group audit team.
Our audit work on the individual subsidiary entities was executed atlevels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
This results in full scope audit procedures performed on 99% of the Groups net assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to conclude that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
accountingrecords Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
74 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report continued Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part ofthe Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we misleading statements.
are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired inthe course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we haveidentified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement thatthey consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by theDirectors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in thecourse of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we considerthe implications for our report.
Rachel Argyle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, UK 22 May 2017
