Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Halfords Group plc for the period ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 108 to 145.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: group financial statements as a whole 3.3m FY16:4.0m 4.7% FY16: 5.0% of profit before tax Coverage 100% FY16:100% of profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs FY16 Recurring risks Carrying amount of Autocentres Goodwill Carrying value of Retail division inventory 102 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 102 07 06 2017 16:38:54 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Carrying amount of Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: Autocentres Goodwill Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing Following the acquisition of Nationwide the Groups assumptions, in particular 69.7 million: FY16: 69.7 million Autocentres in 2010, the Group holds those relating to forecast long term growth significant goodwill in the Autocentres Refer to page 74 to 77 Audit Committee rates and discount rates, to externally division.
Report, page 116 accounting policy and derived data: page 128 financial disclosures.
As set out in the Chief Executives Statement on page 6, the results of the Autocentres Historical comparisons: Assessing the division were not in line with managements Groups performance against budget in expectations, and, as such, the risk of the current and prior periods to evaluate impairment to the associated goodwill has the historical accuracy of the Groups increased.
forecasts: The business operates in a competitive Sensitivity analysis: Performing market, and commercial factors, such as loss sensitivity analysis on the assumptions of a significant customer, changes to market noted above, including assumed EBITDA share or changes to the frequency with which growth of 10% and 0% over the next 5 customers replace their cars, may lead to a periods: risk that the business does not meet the growth projections necessary to support Comparing valuations: Comparing the the carrying value of the goodwill.
sum of the discounted cash flows to the The estimated recoverable amount is Groups market capitalisation to assess the subjective due to the inherent uncertainty reasonableness of those cash flows: and involved in forecasting these cash flows and therefore, this is considered to be one of Assessing transparency: Assessing the key judgemental areas that our audit is whether the groups disclosures about concentrated on.
the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
com 103 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 103 07 06 2017 16:38:54 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only The risk Our response Carrying value of Retail Subjective estimate Our procedures included: division inventory Assessing methodology: Assessing Inventories are carried at the lower of cost the adequacy of the Groups inventory 181.4 million: FY16: 153.3 million and net realisable value.
The estimated net provision methodology based on our realisable value of inventory and associated Refer to pages 74 to 77 Audit Committee knowledge of the industry and factors provisions are subjective due to the inherent Report, page 117 accounting policy and specific to the Group.
uncertainty in predicting consumer demand.
Further, changes in the Groups provisioning Our sector experience: Assessing and methodology could lead to inappropriate challenging the directors assumptions releases to the income statement.
behind the changes to the provision The obsolete stock provision is based on a methodology against our own knowledge model which includes consideration of each of the industry and factors specific to the inventory line, recent sales of those lines and Group: the products position in its lifecycle.
The Group further overlays specific provisions to Tests of detail: Testing the key inputs to account for other matters not captured in the the provisioning model, including recent model, such as known stock losses and faulty sales data and inventory costing.
a report of sales made subsequent to There is a risk that the Groups assessment of the period end at a negative margin to the level of these provisions is insufficient or ascertain whether those items should have inaccurate.
been provided for at the period end: Historical comparisons: Assessing the accuracy of inventory provisioning by checking the historical accuracy of the level of inventory provisions in prior periods: and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
104 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 104 07 06 2017 16:38:55 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of Group total assets the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.3 million FY16: 4.0 million, determined with reference to a 100% benchmark of group profit before tax, of which it represents 4.7% FY16: 5.0%.
100% We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected FY16: 100% identified misstatements exceeding 0.17 million FY16: 0.20 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Full scope for group audit purposes FY17 Of the Groups 5 FY16: 4 components, we subjected 5 FY16: 4 to Full scope for group audit purposes FY16 full scope audits for group purposes.
All components are located in the UK.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed percentages illustrated opposite.
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged In our opinion: from 0.1 million to 3.0 million FY16: 0.1 million to 4.0 million, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the components.
The work on 5 of the 5 components FY16: 4 of the 2006: and 4 components was performed by the Group team.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period is consistent with the financial Profit before tax Materiality statements.
71.4m FY16: 79.8m 3.3m FY16: 4.0m 3.3m Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of Whole financial the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic statements materiality Report and the Directors Report: FY16: 4.0m we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and 3.0m in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance Range of materiality at 5 with the Companies Act 2006. components 0.1m-3.0m FY16: 0.1m to 4.0m 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Profit before tax 0.17m nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Misstatements reported to Group materiality the audit committee the Directors statement of viability on page 56, concerning FY16: 0.20m the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three periods to 3 April 2020: or Group revenue Group profit before tax the disclosures in the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
com 105 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 105 07 06 2017 16:38:55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement matters on which we are required to report by set out on page 98, the Directors are responsible for the preparation exception of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting other information in the Annual Report that contains a material Councils website at www.
This inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our In particular, we are required to report to you if: responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if we have identified material inconsistencies between the set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial our opinions.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor assess the Groups position and performance, business model for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address One Snowhill matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in B4 6GH our opinion: 24 May 2017 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 58 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
106 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 106 07 06 2017 16:38:56
