Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of AO World plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 88 to 119.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: 2.0m group financial statements as a whole 0.3% of total revenues Coverage 99% of group total revenues Risks of material misstatement Recurring risks Product protection plans accrued income Volume rebates receivable 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Product protection plans accrued Accrued income is recognised based on Our procedures included: income 50.9m accrued income: the fair value of commissions due over the 2016: 39.0m accrued income expected life of the plans.
Data comparisons: With the assistance of our own data modelling specialists we Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, Data capture performed reconciliations between the third page 97 accounting policy and page 103 Completeness and accuracy of data used in party data to the database system which financial disclosures.
the model used to calculate the fair value stores this data and onwards into the model.
because of the complexities and manual We agreed a sample of new plans to both bank nature involved in the data transfer into the statements and the database system.
Methodology implementation: With the Calculation error assistance of our own data modelling An arithmetic error in the model.
specialists we examined whether the model appropriately applies the relevant principles.
Subjective estimate Subjective inputs into the product protection Historical comparisons: Evaluating the plan accrued income calculation, such as historical accuracy of the model with the life of the plans and cancellation rates reference to past data e. g. cumulative cash require judgement.
Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the directors assumptions behind the average life of the products against externally available market data.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing sensitivity analysis on judgemental assumptions.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the groups disclosures about of the subjectivity of the unobservable measures and the sensitivity of the outcome of the calculation to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of accrued income.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc only continued The risk Our response Volume rebates receivable Data capture Our procedures included: 9.6m: 2016: 8.5m Completeness and accuracy of data used in the calculations including supplier turnover Control reperformance: Testing the Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, and agreed contractual percentages operating effectiveness of controls over page 97 accounting policy and page 103 because of the complexities and manual supplier statements reconciliations to financial disclosures.
nature of the data transfer.
evidence that the costs and related rebates are being monitored and reconciled on a Subjective estimate regular basis.
Volume rebates recognised are significant and the receivable outstanding at the year Historical comparisons: Evaluating the end represents an estimate for amounts accuracy of the Groups product volume receivable based on forecasts in relation to forecasting against actual out-turns.
factors such as future volumes.
Tests of detail: Recalculate a sample of rebates based on agreed supplier turnover and the contractual percentages.
Agree a sample of the year end receivable back to post year end confirmatory evidence, including credit notes and supplier email confirmation to assess the accuracy of the estimate.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total revenues of 701.2 million, of which it represents 0.3%.
We consider total revenues to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than group loss or profit before tax.
This reflects the growth stage of the business and managements focus on growing the brand and expanding into Europe.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 9 components, we subjected 5 to full scope audits for group reporting purposes, all of which were performed by the group audit team.
We performed a review of financial information including enquiry on 1 component which was not individually significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes but a review was performed in order to provide further coverage over relevant account balances.
For the 3 remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated on the right.
Total revenues Materiality Group revenue Group total assets 701.2m 2.0m 2.0m Whole financial statements materiality 1.4m 99% 99% Range of materiality at 5 components 0.2m to 1.7m Group loss before tax Total revenues 0.1m Group materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee 99% Full scope audit for group purposes Review of financial information for group purposes Residual components AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of Viability Assessment on pages 44, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31March 2020: or the disclosures in note 3of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 44, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 53 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Group total assets Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 99% understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 5 June 2017 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87
