Independent auditors report to the members of AutoTrader Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising fromouraudit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of AutoTrader Group plc Materiality: 8.0m for the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 79 to 122.
Group financial In our opinion: statements as a whole 4.1% of Group profit before tax the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Coverage 100% of Group profit before tax the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 Risks of material misstatement and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Recurring risks Revenue recognition the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit was as follows: The risk Our response Revenue recognition Accounting application Our procedures included: 311.4 million: Revenue primarily consists of fees for advertising Control design: Assessing the design and implementation 2016:281.6 million on the Groups website and web-related of the revenue recognition process: activities, along with retailer website build Test of details: Matching sales information from the Refer to page 57 and hosting subscription fees, maintenance Singleview and OLA systems to the nominal ledger to obtain Audit Committee contracts and other subscription fees.
evidence over completeness of revenue.
Agreeing revenue Report, page 86 recognised by transaction for the entire population to cash accounting policy There are a large variety of packages available and receipts to obtain evidence over existence and accuracy andpage 94 financial customers are able to tailor the combination of of revenue: disclosures.
Given the large volume of non-homogenous transactions, we consider Expectation vs actual: For customers with bespoke there to be a significant risk in relation to the contracts, obtaining contracts and forming an expectation application of the revenue recognition policy.
of the revenue to be recognised in the period.
We assessed whether the actual revenue was in line with our expectation: Test of details: Assessing whether revenue has been recognised in the correct period by selecting a sample of transactions within two weeks either side of the year end and assessing whether the revenue has been recorded correctly with reference to the timing of the service being received: and Test of details: Assessing the existence of revenue by inspecting a sample of credit notes raised in the year and post year end.
76 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3 Our application of materiality and an overview profit before tax Materiality 193.4m 2016: 155.0m 8.0m of the scope ofouraudit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 8.0m at 8.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit Whole financial statements materiality before tax of 193.4m, of which it represents 4.1%.
5m We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected Range of materiality at identified misstatements exceeding 0.4m, in addition to other 4 components 0.1m7.
5m identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 4 reporting components, we subjected 4 to full scope 0.4m audits for Group purposes, all of which were performed by the Group Misstatements reported audit team.
profit before tax to the Audit Committee Group materiality The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
Group revenue Group profit before tax % % 100% 100% Group total assets % 100% Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 77 Independent auditors report to the members of AutoTrader Group plc only continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Companies Act 2006 is unmodified the Directors statements, set out on page 32, in relation togoing In our opinion: concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 44 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of 2006: and the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Report and the Directors Report: fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance tothe Companys members as a body and is subject to important with the Companies Act 2006. explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis ofour opinions.
the Directors statement of viability on page 32, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor operation over the three years to 31 March 2020: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning 1 St. Peters Square the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which M2 3AE we are required to report by exception 8 June 2017 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
78 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017
