Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc Opinion on Financial Statements of In our opinion: Templeton Emerging Markets Investment the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Trust PLC affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Income Statement: the Balance Sheet: the Statement of Changes in Equity: the Cash Flow Statement: the Accounting Policies: and the related notes 1 to 18.
The Financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and existence of investments: and Revenue recognition, completeness and cut off.
All risks within this report are in line with prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 21.5m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net asset value.
Going concern and the Directors As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement assessment of the principal risks that regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting would threaten the solvency or liquidity contained within note a to the Financial Statements and the Directors of the Company Statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained within the Strategic Report on page 14.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 14 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 12 and 13 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors Statement in note a to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation on page 14 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their Statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 59 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 59 6 29 17 7:08 PM Independent Auditors Report continued We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that misstatement had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
How the scope of our audit Risk Title Risk Description responded to the risk Observations We have performed the following No misstatements were identified Valuation and For the year ended 31 March procedures to address this risk: which required reporting to existence of 2017 the investments of the those charged with governance investments Company 2,166m 2016: critically assessed the design in regards to the valuation of 1,482m make up 101% and implementation of the investments.
2016: 95% of total net controls over valuation and assets 2,148m 2016: ownership of investments: We did not identify any 1,562m.
Please see Report differences when agreeing the of the Audit Committee on evaluated a report on the Companys investment portfolio page 53, Accounting Policy design and implementation of to the confirmation received g and note 6. controls at the custodian: directly from the custodian and Investments listed on agreed 100% of the bid prices depositary.
recognised exchanges are of quoted investments on the valued at the closing bid price investment ledger at year end at the year end.
to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing There is a risk that investments source: and may not be valued correctly or may not represent the property agreed 100% of the of the Company.
Companys investment portfolio at the year end to confirmation received directly from the custodian and depositary.
60 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 60 6 29 17 7:08 PM How the scope of our audit Risk Title Risk Description responded to the risk Observations Revenue For the year ended We have performed the following No misstatements were identified recognition, 31March 2017 income procedures to address this risk: which required reporting to completeness from investments is 46.1m those charged with governance critically assessed the design and cut off 2016: 44.7m.
Please in regards to the revenue and implementation of see Please see Report of the recognition, completeness and controls relating to revenue Audit Committee on page 53, cut off.
recognition at the Manager: Accounting Policy c and Accounting policies in relation to note 1. tested cut off around the revenue recognition were found to balance sheet date by testing The Company invests in be in line with IFRS and industry post year-end receipts: and Emerging Markets where there peers.
is a risk that not all dividend selected a sample of information is captured in investments, obtained ex a timely manner and, as dividend dates and rates for a result, revenue may be dividends declared during the incomplete or recognised in year and agreed the amounts the incorrect period.
to the income received report and Bank Statement.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 21.5m 2016: 15.6m Basis for determining materiality 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 429,000 2016: 312,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We note that the accounting and administration for the Company has been outsourced to Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l FTIS as administrator.
As part of our audit we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in place at FTIS.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 61 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 61 6 29 17 7:08 PM Independent Auditors Report continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the Financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our and accounting records opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required the Annual Report to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
62 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 62 6 29 17 7:08 PM Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directorsand auditor Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in FinancialStatements the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the Financial and non-Financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 7 June 2017 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 63 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
