Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Our 2017 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that the Groups operations were largely unchanged in nature from the the British Land Company PLCs Group financial statements and previous year.
Additionally, there have been no significant changes to the Company financial statements the financial statements give a true valuation methodology and accounting standards relevant to the Group.
and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the of focus was largely unchanged.
year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in A full scope audit was performed by the Group team for all subsidiaries accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the Group, and the following joint ventures: Broadgate, Meadowhall IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Leadenhall.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Materiality Accounting Practice Overall Group materiality: 135 million FY16: 138 million which the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with represents 1% of total assets the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Specific Group materiality, applied to Underlying Profit: 19.4 million Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation FY16: 18 million which represents 5% of underlying pre-tax profit What we have audited Areas of focus The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Valuation of investment and development properties Revenue recognition the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017 Accounting for transactions the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017 Taxation the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
then ended the Notes to the Accounts, which include a summary of significant We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the accounting policies and other explanatory information risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management identified as audited.
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the misstatement due to fraud.
preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our framework that has been applied in the preparation of the audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we and applicable law.
make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
94 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development properties We read the valuation reports for all the properties and confirmed that the Refer to pages 67 and 70 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 105 valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS standards and to 107 Accounting policies and pages 115 to 119 Notes.
suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
The Group's investment property portfolio is split between office and residential properties in central London, retail and leisure properties We assessed the valuers qualifications and expertise and read their across the UK, and the assets at the Canada Water site in East London.
terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were The valuation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is 9,073 million.
any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered fee arrangements The valuation of the Group's investment property portfolio is inherently between the valuers and the Group and other engagements which might subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each exist between the Group and the valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest property, its location and the expected future rentals for that particular that the objectivity of the valuers in their performance of the valuations property.
For developments, factors include projected costs to complete was compromised.
and timing of practical completion.
We obtained details of every property held by the Group and set an The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CB Richard expected range for yield and capital value movement, determined by Ellis, Jones Lang LaSalle and Knight Frank the valuers.
The valuers reference to published benchmarks and using our experience and were engaged by the Directors, and performed their work in accordance knowledge of the market.
We compared the investment yields used by with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation the valuers with the range of expected range of yields and the year on Professional Standards.
The valuers used by the Group have year capital movement to our expected range.
We also considered the considerable experience of the markets in which the Group operates.
reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value.
We attended In determining a propertys valuation the valuers take into account meetings with management and the valuers, at which the valuations property-specific information such as the current tenancy agreements and the key assumptions therein were discussed.
Our work covered and rental income.
They apply assumptions for yields and estimated the valuation of every property in the Group, but the discussions with market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and management and the valuers focused on the largest properties in the comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
For portfolio, properties under development or where the valuation basis developments, the residual appraisal method is used, by estimating has changed in the year, the Canada Water site and those where the yields the fair value of the completed project using a capitalisation method used and or year on year capital value movement suggested a possible less estimated costs to completion and a risk premium.
outlier versus externally published market data for the relevant sector.
The significance of the estimates and judgements involved, coupled Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual appeared unusual, and or valuations showed unexpected movements, property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held misstatement, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
further discussions with the valuers and obtained evidence to support explanations received.
The valuation commentaries provided by the There were also certain specific factors affecting the valuations valuers and supporting evidence, enabled us to consider the property in the year: specific factors that may have had an impact on value, including recent comparable transactions where appropriate.
the nature of the Canada Water site, which the Group are currently master planning as a combined large scale, mixed We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and use development site, resulted in our audit paying particular evaluated by management and the valuers, before determining the final focus to the relevant valuations valuation.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations properties under development, completed developments that were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
are now valued as standing investment properties and standing investment properties that have been reclassified to development We performed testing on the standing data in the Groups information properties, continue to be an area of focus systems concerning the valuation process.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to satisfy ourselves of the accuracy of the property information supplied to the valuers by management.
For developments, we confirmed that the supporting information for construction contracts and budgets, which was supplied to the valuers, was also consistent with the Groups records for example by inspecting original construction contracts.
For developments, capitalised expenditure was tested on a sample basis to invoices, and budgeted costs to complete compared with supporting evidence for example construction contracts.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the valuers, and from our review of the valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
No issues were identified in our testing.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We carried out tests of controls over the cash and accounts receivable Refer to pages 67 to 70 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 105 processes and the related IT systems to obtain evidence that postings to to 107 Accounting policies and page 109 Notes.
For rental income balances, we then used data-enabled audit techniques to identify all standard revenue journals Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income.
Rental posted using these systems and processes.
income is based on tenancy agreements where there is a standard process in place for recording revenue, which is system generated.
The remaining journals related to non-standard transactions.
These There are certain transactions within revenue that warrant additional included reclassifications within revenue, accrued income, and bad debt audit focus because of an increased inherent risk of error due to provisions.
For each category of non-standard revenue summarised their non-standard nature.
above, we have understood the nature and assessed the reasonableness of journals being generated, and performed substantive testing over These include spreading of tenant incentives and guaranteed rent a sample of these items.
There have been no exceptions arising from increases these balances require adjustments made to rental our testing over non-standard revenue transactions.
income to ensure revenue is recorded on a straight line basis over the course of the lease.
For balances not included within rental income, such as service charge income, we performed substantive testing on a sample basis.
Accounting for transactions For each transaction, we understood the nature of the transaction and Refer to pages 67 to 70 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 105 assessed the proposed accounting treatment in relation to the Group's to 107 Accounting policies and pages 108 to 143 Notes to the Accounts.
accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
There have been a number of transactions during the year.
These For all acquisitions and disposals, we obtained and reviewed the key warranted additional audit focus due to the magnitude of transactions supporting documentation such as Sales and Purchase Agreements and the potential for complex contractual terms that introduce and completion statements.
Consideration received or paid was judgement into how they were accounted for.
Key transactions agreed to bank statements.
No material issues were found as a subject to additional audit focus were: result of these procedures.
acquisitions of investment properties for 88 million For the Leadenhall transaction which has been accounted for as a joint disposals of investment properties for 670 million, including venture held for sale, we assessed the accounting treatment in relation to the disposal of Debenhams Oxford Street for 397 million IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations and exchange of contracts for the Sale of Interest in the Leadenhall IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
We have reviewed the Holding Co Jersey Limited Joint Venture which has been sale and purchase agreement and agree that the exchange of contracts accounted for as a joint venture held for sale valued at 540 million to sell the shares in the joint venture meet the criteria for recognition as advanced funds received on exchange of contracts for the sale held for sale under IFRS 5.
We have audited the carrying value of the joint of shares in the Leadenhall Joint venture recorded as a financial venture at March 2017, including the valuation of the underlying investment asset and corresponding financial liability for 144 million property.
No material issues were found in relation to the carrying value.
amount of 10 million received from UBS in relation to the development and occupation of 5 Broadgate, and subsequent We have confirmed receipt of the advanced funds received on exchange of vacation of 100 Liverpool Street contracts, and tied this to the balances listed within the sale and purchase agreement and to confirmations from the Groups lawyers.
The monies received are held in a client account held by the Groups lawyers and receipt is conditional on the completion of the sale.
We agree with the recognition as a financial asset and corresponding liability.
For the 10 million payment from UBS we have reviewed the original lease agreement and the amended lease agreement that details the payment.
We have agreed receipt of the amount received to bank statements.
We concur with the treatment adopted.
Taxation We re-performed the Group's and annual REIT compliance tests, Refer to pages 67 to 70 Report of the Audit Committee, pages as well as those tests for the Broadgate REIT.
Based on our work 105 to 107 Accounting policies and pages 111 and 126 Notes.
performed, we agreed with management's assessment that all REIT compliance tests had been met to ensure that the Group The Group's status as a REIT underpins its business model and and Broadgate maintain their REIT status.
For this reason, it warrants special audit focus.
The obligations of the REIT regime include requirements to comply We evaluated the tax provisions and potential exposures as at with balance of business, dividend and income cover tests.
We used our knowledge of tax circumstances Broadgate joint venture is also structured as a REIT and as such, and by reading relevant correspondence between the Group and REIT compliance is also of relevance for this joint venture in Her Majestys Revenue & Customs and the Groups external tax addition to the overall Group.
advisors are satisfied that the assumptions and judgements used by the Group are reasonable.
Tax provisions are in place to account for the risk of challenge of certain of the Group's tax provisions.
Given the subjective nature of these provisions, additional audit focus was placed on tax provisions.
96 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern.
We have taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting nothing to report having performed our review.
processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we The Group and Company financial statements are produced using a have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the single consolidation system that has a direct interface with the general Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to ledger.
We performed our audit procedures over the general ledger adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
system and tested the interface with the consolidation system.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
A full scope audit was performed by the Group audit team for all As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded subsidiaries of the Group, and the following joint ventures: Broadgate, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Meadowhall and Leadenhall.
This gives coverage over substantially the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the all of the Group.
Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the required over each balance in the financial statements.
Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 135 million 2016: 138 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied A key determinant of the Group's value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, we set a specific materiality level of 19.4 million 2016: 18 million for items within underlying pre-tax profit.
This equates to 5% of profit before tax adjusted for capital and other items.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the fact that the underlying pre-tax profit is a secondary financial indicator of the Group Refer to Note 2 of the financial statements page 108 where the term is defined in full.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit of underlying pre-tax items above 1 million 2016: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them, any misstatements identified during our audit of capital and other items above 6.7 million 2016: 6.9 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR CONTINUED Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the Consistency of other information and compliance principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group with applicable requirements Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Companies Act 2006 reporting anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the Directors confirmation on page 65 We have nothing of the Annual Report, in accordance with material to add or the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have to draw attention to.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements carried out a robust assessment of the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements principal risks facing the Group, including the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared those that would threaten its business in accordance with applicable legal requirements model, future performance, solvency or liquidity In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the disclosures in the Annual Report We have nothing the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the that describe those risks and explain how material to add or audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material they are being managed or mitigated to draw attention to.
misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
the Directors explanation on page 49 We have nothing We have nothing to report in this respect.
of the Annual Report, in accordance material to add or with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to to draw attention to.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting how they have assessed the prospects Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, of the Group, over what period they have in our opinion: done so and why they consider that period information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to be appropriate, and their statement materially inconsistent with to report.
as to whether they have a reasonable the information in the audited expectation that the Group will be able financial statements to continue in operation and meet its apparently materially incorrect based liabilities as they fall due over the period on, or materially inconsistent with, our of their assessment, including any related knowledge of the Group and Company disclosures drawing attention to any acquired in the course of performing necessary qualifications or assumptions our audit otherwise misleading Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors the statement given by the directors on We have no exceptions statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the page 64, in accordance with provision to report.
principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially Code the Code, that they consider the less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: balanced and understandable and provides checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant the information necessary for members to provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements assess the Groups and Companys position are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course and performance, business model and of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having strategy is materially inconsistent with performed our review.
our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing Adequacy of accounting records and information and our audit explanations received the section of the Annual Report on page 69 We have no exceptions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, to report.
in our opinion: describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters we have not received all the information and explanations communicated by us to the Audit we require for our audit Committee adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
98 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors remuneration In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to audited financial statements and to identify any information that is be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Companies Act 2006. with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Other Companies Act 2006 reporting or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from by applicable legal requirements.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Responsibilities for the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and the audit London Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement 16 May 2017 set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The maintenance and integrity of The British Land Company PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors the overall presentation of the financial statements We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99
