Independent auditors report Report on the group financial statements had resulted in the overstatement of earnings in the Italian business United Kingdom over a number of years.
We considered the impact of these matters on the group audit risk assessment, the scope of the audit in Our opinion determining which reporting units required audit work and the In our opinion, BT Group plcs group financial statements the extent of the work to be performed in Italy specifically and in other financial statements : reporting units and the audit response to the issues identified.
giv e a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then Overview ended: Overall group materiality: 130 million 2015 16: 130 million ha five been properly prepared in accordance with International which represents approximately 4% of profit before tax.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the F ull scope audits were performed in three reporting units the European Union: and main BT UK trading company British Telecommunications plc, EE ha five been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the and the principal reporting unit in Italy.
These units accounted for Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
over 80% of the groups revenue and groups profit before tax.
Specific audit pr ocedures were performed in four reporting Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB units Spain, Germany, Ireland and the US.
These units As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in accounted for 7% of the groups revenue.
addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Specific audit pr ocedures over certain operating costs were has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting performed in one additional reporting unit in the UK.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are by the IASB.
listed below: As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired What we have audited intangible assets in EE: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Form As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services: 20-F 2017 the Annual Report, comprise: Major c ontracts in Global Services, Business & Public Sector and the gr oup balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: EE: the gr oup income statement for the year then ended: A ccuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems: the gr oup statement of comprehensive income for the year then P ension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the ended: BT Pension Scheme: the gr oup cash flow statement for the year then ended: Litiga tion and regulatory provisions including historical use of the gr oup statement of changes in equity for the year then deemed consent : ended: and R ecognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and the no tes to the financial statements, which include a summary of deferred tax assets: significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
C ost capitalisation and asset lives for property, plant and equipment and software intangible assets: and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are The scope of our audit and our areas of focus identified as audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing European Union, and applicable law.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective Our audit approach judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Context estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future We took into consideration the ongoing integration of EE into the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also wider group and that 2016 17 was the first full year of EEs results addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, being consolidated into the groups financial statements.
EE was including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the also included in the groups internal control over financial reporting directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to framework for the first time.
In addition, in October 2016, the group announced that following The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on allegations of inappropriate management behaviour in BTs Italian our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are business, it had conducted an initial internal investigation.
This initial identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out investigation included a review of accounting practices during which how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to group management had identified certain historical accounting provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any errors and reassessed certain areas of management judgement.
In comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read January 2017, the group announced that its investigations had in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our revealed that the extent and complexity of inappropriate behaviour audit.
in the Italian business was greater than previously identified and 154 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017
