106 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for the the Annual Report and the financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate statements in accordance with applicable and financial information included on the law and regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Company law requires the Directors to dissemination of financial statements may prepare financial statements for each differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial We confirm that to the best of CHRISTOPHE EVAIN statements in accordance with International our knowledge: Chief Executive Officer Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The financial statements, prepared in adopted by the European Union EU and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, also chosen to prepare the Parent Company liabilities, financial position and profit or financial statements under IFRS as adopted loss of the Company and the undertakings by the EU.
Under company law the Directors included in the consolidation taken as must not approve the accounts unless they a whole are satisfied that they give a true and fair The management report, which is view of the state of affairs of the Company incorporated into the Directors report, and of the profit or loss of the Company includes a fair review of the development for that period.
In preparing these financial and performance of the business and statements, IAS 1 requires that Directors: the position of the Company and the PHILIP KELLER Properly select and apply undertakings included in the consolidation Chief Finance and Operating Officer accounting policies taken as a whole, together with a Present information, including accounting description of the principal risks and policies, in a manner that provides uncertainties that they face relevant, reliable, comparable and The Directors consider that this Annual understandable information Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Provide additional disclosures when is fair, balanced and understandable and compliance with the specific requirements provides the information necessary for of IFRS are insufficient to enable users shareholders to assess the Companys and to understand the impact of particular the Groups performance, business model transactions, other events and conditions and strategy or the entitys financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records CHRISTOPHE EVAIN that are sufficient to show and explain the Chief Executive Officer Companys transactions and disclose with 24 May 2017 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking PHILIP KELLER reasonable steps for the prevention and Chief Finance and Operating Officer detection of fraud and other irregularities.
24 May 2017 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 107 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS CONTENTS Auditors report 108 Consolidated income statement 114 Consolidated and Parent Company 115 statements of comprehensive income Consolidated and Parent Company 116 statements of financial position Consolidated and Parent Company 117 statements of cash flow Consolidated and Parent Company 118 statements of changes in equity Notes to the accounts 120 Glossary 163 Shareholder and Company information 168 108 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDITORS We agreed with the directors adoption of the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Going concern and the Directors going concern basis of accounting and we did REPORT TO THE MEMBERS assessment of the principal risks not identify any such material uncertainties.
OF INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL that would threaten the solvency However, because not all future events or GROUP PLC or liquidity of the Group conditions can be predicted, this statement As required by the Listing Rules we have Opinion on the parent company is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability reviewed the directors statement regarding financial statements and the group to continue as a going concern.
the appropriateness of the going concern financial statements of Intermediate basis of accounting contained within note 3 Capital Group plc ICG Independence of the financial statements and the directors In our opinion: We are required to comply with the Financial statement on the longer-term viability of the financial statements give a true and fair Reporting Councils Ethical Standards the Group contained within the corporate view of the state of the Groups and of the for Auditors and confirm that we are governance statement on page 34. parent companys affairs as at 31 March independent of the Group and we have We are required to state whether we have 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities anything material to add or draw attention then ended: in accordance with those standards.
to in relation to: the Group financial statements have We confirm that we are independent of the the directors confirmation on page been properly prepared in accordance group and we have fulfilled our other ethical 34 that they have carried out a robust with International Financial Reporting responsibilities in accordance with those assessment of the principal risks facing Standards IFRSs as adopted by the standards.
We also confirm we have not the Group, including those that would European Union: provided any of the prohibited non-audit threaten its business model, future the parent company financial statements services to the Group as referred to in performance, solvency or liquidity: have been properly prepared in those standards.
the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that accordance with IFRSs as adopted by describe those risks and explain how they the European Union and as applied in are being managed or mitigated: SUMMARY OF OUR accordance with the provisions of the AUDIT APPROACH the directors statement in note 3 to the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements about whether they The key risks we identified are: the financial statements have been prepared considered it appropriate to adopt the 1.
Valuation of unquoted equities, in accordance with the requirements of the going concern basis of accounting in warrants and CLOs Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the preparing them and their identification of 2.
Impairment of loans and equity Group financial statements, Article 4 of any material uncertainties to the Groups investments classified as available the IAS Regulation.
ability to continue to do so over a period for sale The financial statements comprise: of at least twelve months from the date of 3.
Management fee recognition approval of the financial statements: the Consolidated Income Statement: the directors explanation on page 34 as the Consolidated and Parent Company We determined materiality for the Group to how they have assessed the prospects Statements of Comprehensive Income: to be 10.8 million 2016: 12.2 million.
of the Group, over what period they have A lower materiality of 3.7 million the Consolidated and Parent Company done so and why they consider that period 2016: 3.7 million has been applied Statements of Financial Position: to be appropriate, and their statement for the fund management revenue the Consolidated and Parent Company as to whether they have a reasonable stream.
We reported all audit differences Statements of Cash Flow: expectation that the Group will be able in excess of 215,000 to the Audit the Consolidated and Parent Company to continue in operation and meet its Committee.
In addition we also report Statements of Changes in Equity: and liabilities as they fall due over the period audit differences in excess of 72,000 of their assessment, including any related the related notes 1 to 35. relating to the fund management disclosures drawing attention to any revenue stream.
The financial reporting framework that necessary qualifications or assumptions.
has been applied in their preparation is We performed a full scope audit on applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the We confirm that we have nothing material components representing 92% of the European Union and, as regards the parent to add or draw attention to in respect Groups profit before tax and 98% of the company financial statements, as applied of these matters.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 109 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the prior year, we identified a key risk We refined our risk assessment for interest OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS relating to the application and interpretation income in the current year and focused OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial on the significant judgements on changes The assessed risks of material misstatement Statements IFRS 10.
As there has been no to loan repayment dates and amounts.
described below are those that had the significant change in the judgements relating These have been addressed via our greatest effect on our audit strategy, to the application and interpretation of IFRS procedures performed on impairments the allocation of resources in the 10 during the reporting period, we have not of loans, which have been included in this audit and directing the efforts of the reported on this risk this year.
VALUATION OF UNQUOTED EQUITIES, WARRANTS AND CLOS RISK DESCRIPTION HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR KEY OBSERVATIONS AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Unquoted equities, warrants and CLOs We assessed the Groups valuation methodology and We determined the valuation methodology represented 297 million 25.3% of Group challenged its appropriateness.
We evaluated the design for the unquoted equity valuations, CLO net assets at 31 March 2017. and implementation of related controls to determine that loan notes and warrants to be appropriate, appropriate oversight from senior investment executives and are satisfied that the assumptions that Valuing unquoted equities, warrants and had been exercised within the valuations process.
management have made are appropriate CLOs requires management to make a We also tested the operating effectiveness of controls and that the valuation at year end is number of judgements, including valuation around unquoted equity valuations.
For the most material portfolio methodology and the discount or premium company investment, valued at 38million, applied to unquoted equities and the We tested a sample of unquoted equities and warrants we accepted managements valuation was prepayment rate or default rates applied to by determining the appropriateness of the underlying appropriate and reflected the uncertainty CLOs.
As valuations are sensitive to these data and assumptions, specifically including discount in the relevant external factors.
No CLO loan judgments, there is a risk that small changes rates and comparable companies.
We verified the notes were outside of our 5% threshold.
in key assumptions can have a significant inputs to the valuations specifically to the management impact on fair value and therefore accounts and audited financial statements of the investee reported capital gains in the Consolidated companies.
We reviewed independent information, such Income Statement.
as news stories, for the investee companies to identify any impact on managements valuation.
We assessed the The valuation techniques and inputs, reasonableness of management estimates in previous as well as the significant unobservable valuations by performing a retrospective review of inputs are disclosed in note 5 to the valuations based on recent exits.
For the most material financial statements.
The key sources portfolio company investment, valued at 38million, we of estimation uncertainty in relation to challenged management as to whether they have been valuations are disclosed in note 4 to the too conservative in their valuation when taking into financial statements.
account news of a possible merger and debt write off The description of this risk should be in the portfolio company.
read conjunction with the significant We selected a sample of CLO loan notes, comprising issues considered by the Audit Committee different tranches of debt in CLO vehicles.
For discussed on page 55. our sample, we recalculated the fair value with reference to an independent third party cash flow model.
We used our internal specialists to challenge the significant assumptions: specifically: the CPR Constant or Conditional Prepayment Rate, the CDR Conditional Default Rate, the severity on defaulted loans and the interest margin on reinvestment amounts.
These assumptions were obtained from an independent source.
Where our base price was within a 5% threshold of the Groups we considered these valuations to be acceptable.
110 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDITORS CONTINUED 2.
IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS CLASSIFIED AS AVAILABLE FOR SALE RISK DESCRIPTION HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR KEY OBSERVATIONS AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK The Groups impairment charge We tested the design and implementation of key We are satisfied that the impairment events represented 25.3 million for the year controls around impairments.
We reviewed the whole occurred in the current financial year and ending 31 March 2017.
See note 10 to the loan portfolio for impairment indicators, including with managements decision to impair these financial statements.
equity assets held at available for sale, and assessed assets.
We have found the judgements the completeness of impairments for loans we deemed management have made in determining the The identification of impairment events at high risk of impairment by reviewing independent quantum of the cash flows, which impact and the determination of the impairment information, such as publicly available information and the impairment charge, to be appropriate.
charge require the application of significant investee financial reports for potential impairment judgment by management.
There is a In respect of the 6.8 million loan asset triggers.
Where changes to repayment dates negatively risk that management fail to identify an we concluded that, considering significant impacted the carrying value of assets, or where impairment event or that the impairment uncertainties that could have a negative the equity value of an investee company was nil, we reported is overestimated.
impact on the companys performance, determined whether this indicated an impairment managements impairment charge was The Groups impairment policy is disclosed had occurred.
In respect of the portfolio in note 3 to the financial statements.
The key For a sample of impairments that occurred during the company reflecting 30.2 million sources of estimation uncertainty in relation year, we assessed management assumptions relating to of assets, based on our additional to impairment are disclosed in note 4 to the the timing and recognition of the impairment events and procedures performed, we concurred financial statements.
charges and corroborated them to underlying data: such with managements judgement that an The description of this risk should be as enterprise valuations.
impairment event had not occurred.
read conjunction with the significant We challenged management on one loan asset which had We are satisfied that there is no material issues considered by the Audit Committee been impaired by 6.8 million: as there were indicators impairment event which occurred during discussed on page 55. that management had been over conservative with the the year that has not been identified impairment charge.
We also identified one portfolio by management.
company reflecting 30.2 million of assets, in which the Group has an equity and debt holding.
The portfolio company had a negative cash position with debt covenants very close to being breached.
We challenged managements judgement that an impairment event had not occurred by reviewing the portfolio companys performance and equity valuation.
We also considered whether any impaired assets classified as available for sale have been correctly recycled through the Consolidated Income Statement.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 111 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
MANAGEMENT FEE RECOGNITION RISK DESCRIPTION HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR KEY OBSERVATIONS AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Management fees represented We sampled the management fees across the Groups We are satisfied that management fees are 123.1 million 19.6% of the four asset classes, Corporate Investments, Capital Market not materially misstated.
Investments, Real Estate Investments and Secondary Investments, and tested 118 million 96% of the total There is a risk that there are errors in fees.
We assessed the design and implementation the amounts of the management fees of key controls around the management fee revenue reported as there is judgement around the cycle and the reliability of data provided by third party interpretation and application of the terms administrator of funds managed by the Group.
of the investment management agreements.
We reviewed board minutes to identify any new fund The Groups revenue accounting launches to assess if management fees have been policy is disclosed in note 3 to the recognised on all funds under management.
sample of management fees we obtained the most The description of this risk should be up to date management agreements and determined read conjunction with the significant if the terms of the agreements were interpreted and issues considered by the Audit Committee applied correctly.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
