Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Royal Mail plc only.
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements Overview is unmodified Materiality: 20 million 2015-16: 18 million We have audited the financial statements of Royal Mail plc for Group financial 5% 2015-16: 5% of Group profit the 52weeks ended 26 March 2017 set out on pages 94 to 148. statements as a before tax excluding certain items whole Inour opinion: Coverage 100% 2015-16: 100% of Group profit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the before tax Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 26March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Risks of material misstatement vs 2015-16 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Recurring risks Deferred revenue adopted by the European Union: Valuation of pension the parent Company financial statements have been properly scheme liabilities prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and Industrial disease claims the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with provision the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Event driven Ofcom investigation contingent liability recurring risk Acquisition accounting new risk Items added back to Group profit before tax are the IFRS2 charge for employee free shares issued 2016-17: 105million, 2015-16: 158million, loss on disposal of business 2016-17: 2million, 2015-16: nil and net of profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2016-17: 14million, 2015-16: 29million.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 89 Royal Mail plc | Independent auditors report 2.
Ou r assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Deferred revenue associated with Subjective estimate Our procedures included: advancecustomer payments arising from Deferred revenue is estimated for advance Our statistical expertise: with the stamps sold payments made by households who purchase assistance of our own statistical 184 million 2015-16: 195million stamps in advance of actual usage.
The Group specialists, assessing and evaluating estimates the amounts that have been sold Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, the methodology used by the Groups but not used at year end and defers revenue page 136 accounting policy and page122 independent third party specialist to to reflect the fact that that the service will financialdisclosures.
determine the number of stamps held at need to be provided by the Group during future the balance sheet date and its consistent accounting periods for pre-purchased stamps.
As no unique identification of the stamps Benchmarking assumptions: unused is possible, the calculation and challenging key assumptions and inputs methodology of the advance customer to the calculation, including survey size, payments balance is inherently subjective household data and caps in place to by nature and is based on inputs including address the impact of abnormal holdings.
third party surveys and Group sales data.
The methodology adjusts for stamp holdings Survey specialists credentials: which are considered to be abnormal.
assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups third party survey specialist which provides the survey data.
Independent reperformance: testing the revenue data used in the calculation, agreeing inputs to the survey specialists results, reperforming the calculation of deferred revenue and comparing this to the Groups result.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the deferred revenue adjustment.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities Subjective valuation Our procedures included: 3,839 million surplus, net of 5,992 million Significant estimates are made in valuing the Benchmarking assumptions: challenging liability: 2015-16: 3,430 million surplus, net of Groups post retirement defined benefit plan key assumptions applied, being the 3,815 million liabilities obligations, including in particular the discount discount rate, inflation rate, mortality rate, the inflation assumptions and the Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, and salary growth with the support of mortality assumptions.
Small changes in the page136 accounting policy and page 108 our own actuarial specialists, including a assumptions and estimates used to value the financial disclosures.
comparison of key assumptions against Groups pension obligations before deducting market data.
scheme assets would have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
Actuarys credentials: assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups actuarial expert.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the surplus to key assumptions.
90 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risk Our response Industrial disease claims provision Subjective estimate Our procedures included: 84million, 2015-16: 78 million A number of judgments are made in the Our valuation expertise: with the assessment of the Groups liability for Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, assistance of our own valuation industrial disease claims including the future page137 accounting policy and page 128 specialists, assessing the method used number of claims, average cost of claims, financial disclosures.
by the Groups independent adviser to future claims inflation and discount rate.
calculate the provision based on our experience of models used in the market for comparative types of provisions.
Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the assumptions used, including the discount rate and the historical incidence of claims, in the calculation of the provision, including a comparison against the UK Asbestos Working Party Update 2009.
Third party provider credentials: assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups third party adviser used in estimating the industrial disease provision.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of this provision.
Ofcom investigation contingent liability Dispute outcome Our procedures included: Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, An investigation by Ofcom is ongoing.
Ofcoms Enquiry with lawyers: inspecting page143 accounting policy and page 130 provisional view is that Royal Mail breached correspondence with Ofcom and financial disclosures.
competition law by engaging in conduct that holding discussions with the Groups in amounted to unlawful discrimination against houseteam.
postal operators competing with Royal Mail Accounting analysis: challenging the delivery.
assessment performed by the Directors to Depending on the outcome of the Ofcom determine if the criteria for recognising a investigation and any appeal, Royal Mail may provision have been met.
Whether a liability to the Group will Assessing transparency: Considering result from this investigation is inherently the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in uncertain.
respect of the contingent liability.
Acquisition accounting Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Valuation of intangible assets in the acquisition The Group made two acquisitions during the Our valuation expertise: with the of GSO and ASM year, ASM in June and GSO in September.
assistance of our own valuation 90 million goodwill and 56 million intangible The exercise to recognise the intangible assets specialists, assessing and evaluating assets arising on acquisition acquired at fair value involves a significant the methodology used by the Groups degree of judgement in relation to the inputs independent third party experts to value Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, used to value the intangibles, including the intangible assets acquired.
page137 accounting policy and page 114 estimated useful economic life and discount financial disclosures.
Benchmarking assumptions: using rate giving rise to a material estimate.
our sector experience and knowledge, challenging the key assumptions used in the valuation including estimated useful economic life and discount rate.
Valuers credentials: Assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups valuation expert.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of determining the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 91 Royal Mail plc | Independent auditors report 3.
Ou r application of profit before tax excluding Materiality certain items 20 million 2015-16: 18 million materiality and an 428 million 2015-16: 396 million 20 million overview of the scope of Whole financial statements materiality 2015-16: our audit 18 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 20 million 2015-16: 18 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, adjusted to add back the IFRS2 charge for 18 million employee free shares issued and to add back Materiality at components the loss on disposal of business net of profit 18m 2015-16: 16 million on disposal of property, plant and equipment, of 428 million of which it represents 5percent 2015-16: 5percent.
The items not included in the benchmark were all subject to audit procedures by the Group Adjusted profit audit team.
1.0 million Group materiality Misstatements reported to We reported to the Audit Committee the audit committee 2015-16: 0.9 million any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding a profit before Items added back to Group profit before tax are the IFRS2 charge for employee free shares issued 2016-17: 105 million, tax impact of 1.0 million or a balance 2015-16:158 million, loss on disposal of business 2016-17: 2 million, 2015-16: nil and net of profit on disposal of sheet reclassification impact of 5.0 property, plant and equipment 2016-17: 14 million, 2015-16: 29 million.
million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on Group revenue Group profit before tax qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups three 2015-16: three reporting components, we subjected two 2015-16: two to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages of the Groups results illustrated opposite.
The work on one of the two components 100% 100% 2015-16: one of the two components was 2015-16 100% performed by component auditors and the 2015-16 100% rest by the Group audit team.
For the residual component, we performed 100 100 analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were 100 100 no significant risks of material misstatement.
The Group audit team instructed component Group total assets auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team also approved the component materialities having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited the GLS component 2015-16: GLS component at the 98% planning, execution and finalisation stages 2015-16 98% of the audit including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held regularly with the 98 component auditor, including specific calls held in relation to the acquisition accounting 98 for the two acquisitions made by GLS in Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016-17 the year.
Part of these visits and meetings included discussion of the findings reported Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015-16 to the Group audit team in more detail, and Residual components any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
92 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information 4.
Our opinion on other In particular, we are required to report to Scope and responsibilities you if: As explained more fully in the Directors matters prescribed by Responsibilities Statement set out on the Companies Act 2006 we have identified material page87, the directors are responsible for inconsistencies between the knowledge the preparation of the financial statements is unmodified we acquired during our audit and the and for being satisfied that they give a true In our opinion: directors statement that they consider and fair view.
A description of the scope of that the annual report and financial an audit of financial statements is provided the part of the Directors Remuneration statements taken as a whole is fair, on the Financial Reporting Councils website Report to be audited has been properly balanced and understandable and at www.
prepared in accordance with the provides the information necessary This report is made solely to the Companys Companies Act 2006: and for shareholders to assess the groups members as a body and is subject to important the information given in the Strategic position and performance, business model explanations and disclaimers regarding our Report and the Directors Report for and strategy: or responsibilities, published on our website at the financial year is consistent with the www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, the Audit and Risk committee report financial statements.
which are incorporated into this report as if does not appropriately address matters set out in full and should be read to provide an Based solely on the work required to be communicated by us to the Audit and understanding of the purpose of this report, undertaken in the course of the audit of the Risk Committee.
the work we have undertaken and the basis of financial statements and from reading the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are our opinions.
Strategic Report and the Directors Report: required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not identified material adequate accounting records have not misstatements in those reports: and been kept by the parent company, or in our opinion, those reports have returns adequate for our audit have not Richard Pinckard Senior Statutory Auditor been prepared in accordance with the been received from branches not visited Companies Act 2006. by us: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the parent company financial 5.
W e have nothing to Chartered Accountants statements and the part of the Directors 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL report on the disclosures Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting of principal risks 17 May 2017 records and returns: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or certain disclosures of directors draw attention to in relation to: remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Directors statement of viability on we have not received all the information page 41, concerning the Principal Risks, and explanations we require for our audit.
their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations Under the Listing Rules we are required of the groups continuing in operation over to review: the three years to 2020: or the Directors statements, set out on the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial page 41, in relation to going concern and statements concerning the use of the longer-term viability: and going concern basis of accounting.
the part of the Corporate Governance 6.
W e have nothing to Statement on page 54 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven report in respect of the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate matters on which we Governance Code specified for our review.
arerequired to report We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
byexception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 93
