Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc Opinion on financial statements of PayPoint plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes to the Consolidated financial statements 1 to 29: and the related notes to the Parent financial statements 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Accounting for the Collect restructure: and Revenue recognition.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 2.5 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax, adjusted to exclude the profit arising on disposal of the Mobile Payments business.
Scoping Our group audit scope included 12 2016: 12 entities.
Significant changes in our approach Our audit approach has changed in response to the principal corporate transactions that have resulted in changes to the Groups structure: the disposal of the mobile payments business resulted in prior year risks on valuation and classification as held for sale no longer being relevant: the sale of the Groups interest in Drop and Collect Limited has resulted in the the prior year identified risk of impairment no longer being relevant: and the new joint arrangements with Yodel Delivery Network Limited have given rise to a new risk relating to the determination of the nature of the arrangement, whether it is a joint venture or a joint operation, and therefore the accounting policy to be applied.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group on page 22.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: 68 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the disclosures on pages 20-22 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 22 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Accounting for the joint arrangements in Collect Risk description As described in note 17 and as discussed by the Audit Committee on page 43, in December 2016 the Group announced the sale of its 50% interest in Drop and Collect Limited, which trades as Collect, to its joint venture partner, Yodel Delivery Network Limited Yodel, in exchange for a 50% stake in a newly incorporated entity Collect Holdings Limited which holds, via its wholly-owned subsidiary, Collect Brand Limited, the Collect brand.
Collect Brand Limited has entered into agreements to licence the brand to PayPoint and Yodel in return for royalties for each parcel introduced to Collect.
The accounting for this transaction is complex, requiring an evaluation of the arrangements entered into to determine the disposal accounting for the Groups interest in Drop and Collect Limited and the accounting for the new arrangements with Collect Holdings Limited in determining whether the arrangement represents a joint venture or a joint operation.
This determination affects the presentation in the Groups financial statements as the former requires the use of equity accounting whilst the latter requires the use of proportionate consolidation.
As management expect that the parcel delivery service provided by Collect will continue to grow, the determination of the accounting presentation is considered a critical judgement.
Management has determined that the arrangement represents a joint operation.
How the scope We considered managements assessment of accounting for the new arrangements by inspecting the agreements signed of our audit relating to the transaction including: responded to the shareholders agreement between PayPoint and Yodel: the risk the services agreement between PayPoint and Drop and Collect Limited: and the brand licence agreement between PayPoint and Collect Brand Limited.
We have reviewed the Groups accounting analysis of the transaction and the agreement.
We evaluated the accounting against the requirements of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
We considered the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement in the normal course of business based on the agreements and through discussion with management.
We have tested the loss on disposal calculation, including performing substantive analytical review procedures on the results of Drop and Collect Limited up to the date of disposal.
Key Based on our audit procedures, we are satisfied that the accounting for the new joint arrangement as a joint operation and observations the impact on the financial statements, including from the disposal of the Groups interest in Drop and Collect Limited, is appropriate and in accordance with IFRS.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 69 Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc continued Revenue Recognition Risk description Revenues of 212 million, primarily comprising commission and fees receivable from clients and retailers and the Groups share of royalty income from the Collect joint operation, as well as revenues from the disposed Mobile payments business.
The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of revenue is described in note 1 to the financial statements and further information is included in note 3 to the financial statements and in the report of the Audit Committee on page 43.
The majority of the Groups revenue is driven by high volume, low value transactions and the Group relies heavily on its computer systems to record this data accurately.
Automated controls in the computer systems are supported by business process controls designed to ensure completeness and accuracy of recording of the transactions processed across the Groups retail network.
There is an inherent risk around the revenue recorded given the complexity of systems and the large number of schemes operated by the Group, particularly where there are manual interventions such as in processing changes to fee structures.
How the scope With the assistance of our IT specialists, we tested the effectiveness of the controls over the IT environment in which of our audit transaction polling, billing and rating reside, including the change control procedures in place over systems that bill material responded to revenue streams.
the risk We tested controls over end-to-end reconciliations from transaction polling from terminals, to billing and rating, to the general ledger, including interface controls designed to determine completeness of recording of all revenue transactions.
We also tested controls over manual adjustments to transaction-based invoices.
In addition to this controls work, we have performed the following: substantive testing on the fee rates input into the computer systems: for all material revenue streams, analytical procedures were undertaken: and any material non-routine revenue streams were also substantively tested and the revenue recognition policies assessed against the criteria of IAS 18.
Key Based on our audit procedures, we identified no matters to report to the Audit Committee.
observations These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 2.5 million 2016: 2.5 million Basis for determining materiality 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted to exclude the gain arising on disposal of the Mobile Payments businesses and the loss on disposal of the Groups 50% interest in Drop and Collect Limited.
Rationale for the benchmark applied A profit measure is considered most relevant to users of the accounts: and an adjusted measure has been used to exclude the gain on disposal of the Mobile Payments business and the loss on disposal of the Groups 50% interest in Drop and Collect Limited as these transactions Adjusted PBT Component materiality range are non-recurring in nature.
53.3m 0.1m to 1.25m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Group materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5m 0.125m 125,000 2016: 125,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
70 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work of 12 legal entities 2016: 12 legal entities.
Of those: 7 2016: 8 were subject to a full audit.
These audits were performed by the Group audit team without the assistance of a component auditor and represent 77% of the Groups revenue, 93% of profit before tax and 93% of net assets.
1 PayPoint Romania was subject to a statutory audit to 31 December 2016 followed by 3 months roll forward through specific audit procedures, it represents 19% of revenue, 6% of profit before tax and 7% of net assets: and 4 entities including Drop and Collect Limited which were disposed of during the year were subject to analytical review procedures by the Group audit team for the period during which they were under PayPoints control.
The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups business operations at those locations.
These 12 entities represent the principal business units within the group and account for 100% 2016: 100% of the groups net assets, 100% 2016: 100% of the groups revenue and 100% 2016: 100% of the groups adjusted profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 12 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
The highest materiality applied to an individual trading component was 1.25 million 2016: 1.4 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures.
The group audit team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the engagement team, visits PayPoint Romania the only location where a component auditor assists with the audit work every year.
profit Revenue Net assets before tax Full audit scope 77% Full audit scope 93% Full audit scope 93% specified audit procedures 19% specified audit procedures 6% specified audit procedures 7% Review at group level 4% Review at group level 1% Review at group level 0% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 71 Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc continued Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Hadleigh Shekle FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 25 May 2017 72 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017
