125 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc Opinion on financial statements of Severn Trent plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity: and the related Notes to the group financial statements 1 to 48 and the related Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited: Revenue recognition risk in relation to the estimation of metered unbilled revenue in Severn Trent Water Limited: Determining the classification of costs between operating expenditure and capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited: Determining the amount of the groups retirement benefit obligations: and Determination of current and deferred tax balances.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 18 million 2016: 18 million which was determined on the basis of profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional items.
Scoping Our audit scoping has resulted in over 90% of the groups net operating assets and profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments and exceptional items being subject to audit testing.
Significant changes Changes to our scoping approach include: in our approach Audit of the newly incorporated joint venture, Water Plus Limited Audit of the acquisition balance sheet of Dee Valley Group plc Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 126 Independent auditors report to themembers of Severn Trent Plc continued Going concern and the directors assessment of theprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 49.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 50 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 50 to 55 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
There have been no changes to the risks identified in the prior year.
Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited 125.4 million note 22 Risk description A proportion of Severn Trent Water Limiteds customers do not or cannot pay their bills which results in the need for provisions to be made for non-payment of the customer balance.
Management makes estimates regarding future cash collection when calculating the bad debt provision.
Provisions are made against Severn Trent Water Limiteds trade receivables based on historical experience of levels of recovery from accounts in particular ageing categories.
The risk has been focussed on the determination of the ageing of the trade receivables balance as this determines the level of provisioning to be recorded.
The Audit Committee also considered this as a significant issue as discussed in the Audit Committee Report on page 87.
Management has included this as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 5 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We reviewed and challenged the information used to determine the bad debt provision by considering cash collection responded to the risk performance against historical trends and the level of bad debt charges over time.
Specifically, we reviewed the actual history of slow paying customers in Severn Trent Water Limited in the year using data analytics to understand the collection of previously aged trade receivables and to recompute the ageing analysis.
We evaluated the design and implementation of key management review controls and those relating to the production of the data used in the bad debt model.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions applied in assessing the impairment of trade receivables and the calculation of the ageing of trade receivable are appropriate and no additional provision was identified from the audit work performed.
Revenue recognition risk in relation to the estimation of unbilled metered revenue in Severn Trent Water Limited 113.4 million of the 143 million in Severn Trent Water Limited note 22 Risk description For water and waste water customers with water meters, the amount of unbilled revenue recognised depends upon the volume supplied, including an estimate of the sales value of units supplied between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
There is a risk that these estimates are incorrect.
The risk has been focussed on the usage estimate, because this is based on historical data and assumptions around consumption patterns upon which management then recognises unbilled revenue.
How the scope of our audit We used data analytics to recompute the total level of unbilled revenue for the current year in Severn Trent Water responded to the risk Limited as well as evaluating the design and implementation of key management review controls and those relating to the key data inputs to the model.
In addition, we challenged the validity of managements estimate of current year accrued revenue by comparing actual amounts billed to the estimate made in the prior year to determine the accuracy of the estimation techniques.
Key observations We are satisfied that managements assumptions around the recognition of unbilled revenue are appropriate.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Determining the classification of costs between operating expenditure and capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited note 19 Risk description Severn Trent Water Limited has a substantial capital programme property, plant and equipment additions in the year were 466.4 million which has been agreed with the regulator Ofwat and therefore incurs significant expenditure in relation to the development and maintenance of both infrastructure and non-infrastructure assets.
Expenditure in relation to increasing the capacity or enhancing the network is treated as capital expenditure.
Expenditure incurred in maintaining the operating capability of the network is expensed in the year 136.2 million in which it is incurred.
Capital projects often contain a combination of enhancement and maintenance activity which are not distinct and therefore the risk has been focused on the allocation of costs between capital and operating expenditure as this process is inherently judgemental.
Whilst under AMP 6, total expenditure, or Totex, is a key driver of regulatory performance rather than capital expenditure which was monitored under AMP 5, the accounting distinction between operating and capital expenditure remains, and therefore it is important that capital project expenditure is accounted for correctly in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Management has included this as a critical judgement in note 5 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We assessed the groups capitalisation policy to determine compliance with relevant accounting standards and responded to the risk evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the application of the policy to expenditure incurred on projects within the groups capital programme during the year.
This includes consideration of the allocation of costs between capital and operating expenditure.
In addition, for a sample of capital projects, we assessed the application of the capitalisation policy to the costs incurred by understanding the initial business case for the project and ensuring that it had been approved by the relevant capital programme board.
We also agreed a sample of costs to third party invoices and assessed whether the split between capital and operating expenditure split is aligned to the original approved business plan.
Key observations Based on our audit of a sample of capital projects, and our review of the project budgets, we consider that the classification of costs between operating and capital expenditure is appropriate.
Determining the amount of the groups retirement benefit obligations 574.6 million net deficit note 29 Risk description This is an area involving significant estimation because the process is complex and requires management after taking advice from their actuarial advisers to make a number of assumptions concerning the discount rate, inflation and pension increases, along with investment returns and the longevity of current pensioners in order to determine the value of the schemes liabilities.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls and with support from the pension specialists within our responded to the risk audit team, we challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the pension scheme deficit as detailed in note 29, specifically challenging the change in methodology in calculating the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions with reference to comparable market and other third party data.
Key observations We are satisfied that managements assumptions in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation, including discount rates are appropriate and within a reasonable range.
Determination of current and deferred tax balances 7.1 million charge note 14 Risk description The group has entered into a number of one-off transactions during the year, which involve complex tax accounting considerations.
The risk has been focused on the tax accounting consequences for these one-off transactions, specifically in relation to the acquisition of Dee Valley Group plc and the asset-backed funding structure for the groups pension scheme.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls and with support from the tax specialists within our audit responded to the risk team, using our technical expertise, we have assessed the tax accounting consequences for the one-off transactions in order to test whether the tax outcome is appropriate and the accounting is in compliance with IAS 12 Income taxes.
Key observations We are satisfied that the tax outcome is appropriate and the accounting for tax related to the one-off transactions is in compliance with IAS 12 Income taxes.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 128 Independent auditors report to themembers of Severn Trent Plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of ourwork.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 18 million 2016: 18 million Basis for determining Approximately 6% 2016: approximately 6% of profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional materiality items.
Rationale for the As in 2016, profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional items has been used in order to focus benchmark applied on the groups underlying trading performance consistent with the groups internal and external reporting.
profit before tax We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000 2016: 750,000, as well as 319.3 million differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Group materiality 18 million qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Component materiality range 7.5 million to 16 million Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.75 million profit before tax Group materiality Represents profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional items.
An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide of our audit controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope on the consolidation at the parent company level and the groups two business segments being Regulated Water and Waste Water and Business Services.
Regulated Water and Waste Water Regulated Water and Waste Water is primarily comprised of Severn Trent Water Limited which was subject to a full statutory audit using component materiality of 15 million 2016: 15 million and accounts for over 90% 2016: over 90% of the groups net operating assets and operating profit.
The group audit team performs the audit of Severn Trent Water Limited without the involvement of a component audit team.
The audit procedures on Dee Valley Group plc were focussed on performing an audit on the acquisition balance sheet and analytical reviews on the income statement from acquisition date to the year end to component materiality of 7.5 million.
Business Services The extent of our testing on the Business Services segment was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and the materiality of the segments global business operations, principally in the UK and the US.
Thesecomponents were subject to full audit scopes.
The materiality of each component is lower than that of the group, with materiality of 9 million 2016: 9 million applied to each of the US and UK components.
Parent company and consolidation At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The audit of Water Plus Limited, the joint venture incorporated during the year, was performed by component auditors to a materiality of 9 million.
The group audit team follows a programme of planned visits to the auditors of each of the significant components of the group not audited by the group team.
In years when we do not visit a significant component, we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: prescribed by the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Matters on which we are Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in required to report by exception respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not identified any such Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report inconsistencies or misleading to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of of directors and auditor the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give financial statements reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kari Hale, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22 May 2017 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
