Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Mitie Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the related Notes 1 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Effect of potential prior year restatements Impairment of goodwill in the Property division Recoverability of aged or disputed debtors and accrued income Healthcare disposal Presentation of other items in the consolidated income statement Appropriateness of revenue and profit recognition Management override of controls Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Following the impairment of goodwill in the Healthcare division reported in the interim financial statements, this is no longer assessed as a key risk.
Instead, we have identified a key risk regarding the disposal of Healthcare.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.8m which was determined on the basis of a normalised and adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping The scope of our Group audit was established to include the primary trading entities across the three trading divisions covering 90% of revenue, 87% of profit before tax and 83% of net assets.
Significant changes We have identified new risks arising from the events and trading results in the year.
As a in our approach consequence of the current year trading performance, we have revised our basis of determining materiality so it more appropriately reflects the circumstances of the business in the current year.
com 95 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the attention to in respect of these matters.
going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 a We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going to the financial statements and the Directors statement on concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any the longer-term viability of the group contained within the such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future strategic report on page 37. events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not We are required to state whether we have anything material a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a to add or draw attention to in relation to: going concern.
the Directors' confirmation on page 48 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 30 to 36 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in Note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting We confirm that we are independent of the Group Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
96 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Following the impairment of goodwill in the Healthcare division reported in the interim financial statements, this is no longer assessed as a key risk impacting our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
However, we have assessed the prior year impact arising from the impairment of goodwill in the Healthcare division as part of the prior year restatements key risk.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Effect of potential prior year restatements Risk description During the course of managements balance sheet review, announced in the trading update on 18 January 2017, and in responding to the Corporate Reporting Review Committee queries regarding the impairment of goodwill in the Healthcare division, a number of adjustments to the prior year results income statement and reserves amounting to 60.9m have been identified and recorded in the financial statements arising from information which has now been made available.
These included the impairment of goodwill in the Healthcare division of 26.0m, the remainder relating to the write-back of intangible assets, under-accrual of costs and overstatement of trade receivables and accrued income.
There is judgement in evaluating whether the matters identified represent accounting errors or changes in accounting judgement.
The Groups accounting policy for, and analysis of, prior year restatements is disclosed in Note 1 c within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
The key judgements in respect of prior year restatements are considered on page 53 within the Audit Committee section of the Directors report.
How the scope of our audit We have assessed the design and implementation of the managements controls responded to the risk relating to the review, challenge and approval of internal accounting papers.
We have also considered management bias in each of the matters identified as a prior year adjustment in the context of the current year results, the prior year results and compliance with the Groups financial covenants.
We have challenged managements decision to record a prior year adjustment and have inspected the supporting evidence and accounting papers prepared by the Group to validate the positions adopted and assessed compliance with relevant accounting standards.
In particular we have considered whether the various matters reflect a prior period error or a change in accounting estimate, as defined by International Accounting Standard 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
We have obtained a detailed understanding of the facts underpinning the matters, requested from management all internal and external correspondence and audit evidence relating to the various matters, interviewed operational and financial management knowledgeable of the issues, where still employed by the business, and obtained copies of signed legal agreements or equivalent evidence, as applicable.
We have engaged technical specialists to increase our professional scepticism through detailed analysis of the individual adjustments identified.
We also engaged senior independent audit partners to challenge any inherent management bias across all the adjustments as a whole.
Key observations Based on our work performed, we observed that the judgements applied were appropriate.
We noted that deficiencies in internal review controls, particularly managements controls relating to the review, challenge and approval of matters relating to financial close, goodwill impairment and contract judgements, resulted in certain balances not being appropriately recorded in the consolidated financial statements in the prior year.
com 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Impairment of goodwill in the Property division Risk description In accordance with International Accounting Standard 36 Impairment of Assets and the Groups accounting policy, management is required to carry out an annual impairment test of the Groups goodwill of 358.9m prior to impairment charges, of which 85.2m, is recorded in the Property division.
Goodwill is disclosed in Note 14 to the financial statements.
Trading performance in the Property division has declined in the past year, with a loss before tax of 9.3m recorded in the current year and management has recorded an impairment charge of 15.0m for the year.
There is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting the future cash flows of the division, including: the variability in forecast contract income and margin due to contract attrition and new contract wins or extensions: the impact of changes in market conditions: the impact of changes in Government public sector policy: the availability of Local Authority budgets: the impact of Brexit: and the selection of an appropriate discount rate.
The Groups accounting policy for goodwill is disclosed in Note 1 b within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
The key judgements in respect of goodwill are disclosed in Note 2 Measurement and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and is considered on page 55 within the Audit Committee section of the Directors report.
How the scope of our audit We have assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls over the Groups responded to the risk budgeting and forecasting process as well as the impairment review process.
We have challenged the reasonableness of managements key judgements.
Specifically, our work included, but was not limited to: evaluating managements historical forecasting accuracy: assessing one-off items which management has identified as impacting the current year and the risk of these items being pervasive in the business: benchmarking long-term growth rates to applicable market data, taking into consideration available public information including, but not limited to, Government public sector policy and the impact of Brexit: considering the performance of peers and available market data on output trends, both historic and forecast: engaging Deloitte industry valuation specialists to challenge the discount rate applied as well as the clerical accuracy of managements impairment model: challenging the forecast revenue and margin growth assumptions as well as forecast assumptions around new contract wins or extensions, contract attrition, contract margins, cost reductions and the allocation of central costs by benchmarking against historic performance and performance on similar projects: and assessing whether the forecasts adopted in the impairment review were Board approved and consistent with those used in the going concern and longer-term viability assessment.
We independently determined whether or not a reasonably possible change to key operating assumptions could result in an impairment in order to critically assess managements position.
We tested the sensitivity of the impairment to reasonably possible changes in each of the key assumptions and reviewed managements sensitivity disclosure to check compliance with the financial reporting standards.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of outcomes reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Key observations Whilst further actions are required by the Group to achieve these forecasts over the short and medium term, we concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment model were within an acceptable range, and that the overall position adopted, resulting in an impairment of 15.0m, was reasonable.
98 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Recoverability of aged or disputed debtors and accrued income Risk description Material amounts of the Groups billed and unbilled work remain outstanding for more than three months as resolution of open issues remains ongoing on various contracts.
The aged nature of these balances increases the risk of recoverability, particularly where there is disagreement or dispute.
In addition we have considered the increased risk arising from the decline in trading performance in the year.
Trade debtors and accrued income are disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements.
Credit risk associated with trade debtors is disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
There is significant management judgement involved in assessing the recoverability of these balances, taking into consideration the Groups contractual rights, available evidence of work performed, as well as the status of ongoing commercial negotiations.
This judgement is compounded by system limitations which require a manual ageing of contractual balances, increasing the risk of error.
In the current year the Group has recognised a valuation allowance of 13.9m in respect of aged and disputed balances.
The Groups accounting policy for trade debtors and accrued income is disclosed in Note 1 b within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
How the scope of We have assessed the design and implementation of key controls over the financial reporting process.
our audit responded In particular, we have focused on the appropriate ageing of billed and unbilled balances recorded in the to the risk financial accounts and review of these aged positions.
We have extended the scope of our work on aged balances and, on a sample basis, have challenged the validity of the recorded debtors and accrued income by obtaining external confirmation of the balances, such as client approval of works orders.
We have challenged the validity of these balances together with the completeness of managements provisions.
We have read correspondence as well as internal and external legal counsel reports regarding any disputed contractual amounts and positions.
We have interviewed commercial and project managers and challenged the financial position adopted on the key contracts, gathering evidence of work performed and the status of negotiations where appropriate.
Key observations Based on our work performed and evidence gathered, we are satisfied that the trade debtors and accrued income recorded in the financial statements are reasonable.
Healthcare disposal Risk description The Groups Healthcare division MiHomecare was disposed of during the year.
The Group has recorded a loss on disposal of 30.4m and associated costs of disposal, largely driven by a 9.5m contribution to trading losses payable to the purchaser.
The terms of the sale are complex in relation to the completeness of the disposal costs recognised which include the provision for certain warranties.
Discontinued operations and disposal of subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Groups accounting policy for discontinued operations and disposal of subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 1 b within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
How the scope of We have evaluated the design and implementation of the key controls over the disposal of the our audit responded Healthcare business, including controls in respect of the calculation of loss on disposal and exit costs.
to the risk We have read a copy of the sale agreement and used this to challenge the accuracy and completeness of the obligations recorded in the financial statements.
We have reviewed the completeness of recorded provisions by challenging the assumptions underpinning the calculations, in particular, the adequacy of an indemnity provision for employee costs and associated presentation.
We have audited the balance sheet on the date of disposal and recalculated the expected loss on disposal.
We have specifically reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures set out in Note 6 to the accounts detailing the background to the sale, the key terms of sale and the recorded position and considered the appropriate presentation as discontinued operations.
Key observations We are satisfied that the loss on disposal of the Healthcare business has been appropriately calculated and presented in the financial statements and the estimated exit costs are reasonable.
com 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Presentation of other items in the consolidated income statement Risk description 153.5m of transactions have been presented as other items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Other items are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements and are intended to reflect transactions that fall outside the normal course of business.
These include goodwill impairment, the results of disposals, restructuring costs and acquisition related costs.
There is judgement in evaluating whether a transaction meets the definition described in the Groups accounting policy and whether its presentation is fair, balanced and understandable.
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of material other item earnings may distort the readers view of the financial result in the year.
The Groups accounting policy for statutory and non-statutory measures of performance is disclosed in Note 1 b within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
The key judgements in respect of other items are disclosed in Note 2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
How the scope of We have assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls over the financial statement our audit responded review process by management and the Audit Committee.
to the risk We have benchmarked against market practice, including, but not limited to: the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council in their thematic review: and the guidance included in the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures, issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
We have understood the composition of other items identified as one-off by management, disclosed at Note 5 and included within managements Alternative Performance Measure of operating profit before other items and agreed a sample of items to supporting documentation.
We have challenged managements rationale for the presentation of items within the income statement as other items, particularly around the areas of higher judgement such as restructuring costs to determine whether the costs recognised as other items meet the criteria of the accounting policy for such items defined by the Group.
This includes assessing the incremental nature of the costs, the extent to which the costs are non-recurring and whether they are specific to individual events, and considering whether they should be classified as part of results before other items.
Our work has also included a review of material items included within the income statement to identify income and expenses which may be exceptional by nature but have not been separately identified.
We have independently evaluated and challenged the appropriate disclosure of these balances and consulted with Deloitte technical specialists on financial reporting.
Key observations We are satisfied that presentation of the transactions included within other items is reasonable.
100 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Appropriateness of revenue and profit recognition Risk description Certain of the Groups project-based service contracts are long term in nature.
The contractual arrangements that underpin the measurement and recognition of revenue by the Group can be complex and incorporate penalty clauses in the event of non-compliance.
The Group is therefore required to make operational and financial assumptions to estimate future performance over periods that can extend beyond five years.
There are significant accounting judgements required to apply the Groups revenue recognition policies to the long-term complex contracts.
The prediction of future events contains inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement.
Variability of contract penalties, underlying delivery costs and customer disputes can put additional pressure on margins and on future contract profitability.
Revenue and operating profit is disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Managements assessment of the through-life margin requires both the delivery of future cost saving initiatives and plans to improve revenue.
This brings with it an inherent level of risk and a requirement for the operational teams to deliver these assumptions.
The key judgements impacting the recognition of revenue and resulting operating profit include: interpretations of terms and conditions in relation to the required service obligations in accordance with contractual arrangements: consideration of the Groups performance against contractual obligations and the impact on revenue and costs of delivery: determining the stage of completion and forecasting with reasonable certainty contract revenue and costs: and the recognition and recoverability of contract related assets, including those recognised as direct incremental costs prior to service commencement.
We focused our testing on contracts with the following characteristics: contract related assets that are materially sensitive to changes in the forecast margin: contracts that have the potential for material losses: and contracts with risks leading to material judgements.
The Groups accounting policy for revenue is disclosed in Note 1 b within the Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies.
The key judgements in respect of revenue are disclosed in Note 2 Revenue recognition and is considered on page 56 within the Audit Committee section of the Directors report.
com 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Appropriateness of revenue and profit recognition How the scope of We have tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls over the contract process including our audit responded contract monitoring, billings and approvals, the general IT controls over certain of the systems used to to the risk generate the information and managements review and approval of the contract accounting applied.
We have attended and inspected minutes from certain meetings forming a key part of the Groups risk and contract accounting process to challenge fully at a management level, the ongoing performance and judgements taken on long-term complex contracts.
In addition: we have assessed managements judgement regarding the appropriate timing of revenue recognition, including when a percentage of completion basis was applied, by challenging the validity and reasonableness of forecast revenue and costs.
As part of our assessment we have reviewed papers documenting managements balance sheet review which was supported by KPMG.
As part of this we attended Audit Committee meetings alongside KPMG.
Where contract negotiations are ongoing, particularly with regard to contract extensions or new contracts, we discussed the current status with the respective contract manager and reviewed correspondence where relevant: we reviewed significant contract terms for the conditions that underpin the revenue and the profit recognition assumptions.
This is particularly relevant in our assessment of variable reactive and project related revenue forecasts and our assessment of the Groups exposure to any performance related penalties.
In addition we considered the impact of any contract variations including any discounts that have been provided: we have performed substantive tests and substantive analytical procedures on costs incurred to date and profitability forecasts.
This included challenging managements assumptions on revenue, future costs including projected savings and the actions required to achieve these and by analysing historic performance.
Through this analysis we assessed the underlying accounting treatment of contract related assets and assessed the recoverability of these assets against future profitability: we challenged the assumptions in the forecasts and through-life margin assumptions prepared by management, to determine whether onerous contracts have been appropriately recognised and adequately disclosed.
This was particularly relevant where contract performance had deteriorated in the year and contract initiatives which had previously been assumed were not delivered.
In determining where onerous provisions are required we have considered the historic performance, assessed the assumptions regarding operational risk and the actions management is taking together with the contractual obligations and remaining term of the contract.
Our efforts were focused around challenging managements plan to improve operational performance, reduce cost and secure revenue increases: we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis and we have undertaken additional analysis on key assumptions to which managements provisioning judgements are more sensitive.
We also held discussions with in-house and external legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to evaluate contractual claims and disputes with customers and subcontractors and to assess any issues with the interpretation of contracts: and for contract related assets which have been written off or where onerous contract provisions have been created we have assessed whether the resulting charge was a change in estimate arising from new information in the year or whether it represented a correction in a prior year error.
Key observations We consider the range of judgements across the contract portfolio of long-term complex contracts to be appropriate.
From the evidence obtained, we did not identify any incremental onerous contracts over and above the arrangements identified by managements own procedures.
We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
We are satisfied with the Groups related disclosures of these onerous contracts in light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgements made.
102 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Management override of controls Risk description The decentralised nature of the Group, coupled with the evolving systems and control environment, means that there is an increased risk of errors remaining undetected and aggregating to cause a material misstatement to the Group.
Furthermore, the financial results are sensitive to significant estimates and judgements, where there is a broad range of acceptable outcomes that could lead to different levels of profit and revenue being reported in the financial statements.
Relatively small changes in the basis of those judgements and estimates could result in the Group meeting, exceeding or falling short of forecasts, guidance or targets.
Consequently, the recovery of contractual balances is dependent on management being consistent in pursuing a course of action.
We have evaluated the trading performance and governance events in the year, the prior year restatements, the amendments obtained on the Groups covenants and the significant judgement applied on a number of our identified risks of material misstatement and identified that there is a key risk of management override of controls.
Further, management has identified instances of override of controls during the year, resulting in a number of prior year restatements.
Management is in a unique position potentially to manipulate accounting records and financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
The key judgements in respect of management override of controls are considered on page 57 within the Audit Committee section of the Directors report.
How the scope We have tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls over managements review and of our audit approval of financial results.
responded to Consistent with all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, the risk including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by management that represented a risk of material misstatement.
In addition to the procedures performed to address the risks as discussed above related to prior year restatements, impairment of goodwill in the Property division, recoverability of aged or disputed debtors and accrued income, presentation of other items and appropriateness of revenue and profit recognition, we have extended our enquiries designed to assess whether judgements and estimates exhibited unconscious bias or whether management had taken systematic actions to manipulate the reported results.
We have applied an increased level of scepticism throughout the audit by increasing the involvement of senior audit team personnel, with particular focus on audit procedures designed to assess whether revenues and costs have been recognised in the correct accounting period and whether key assumptions and judgements applied were appropriate.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking procedures to check the completeness and appropriate cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the occurrence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
We have attended the Audit Committee meetings throughout the year and read minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors.
We have also attended and inspected minutes from certain management and project meetings, forming a key part of the Groups risk and contract accounting process to challenge at a management level the ongoing performance on long-term complex contracts.
Key observations We observe there have been instances of weak implementation of the key controls in the year, particularly over managements control relating to review, challenge and approval of key accounting estimates and judgements.
Progress has been made by the Group towards the latter part of the financial year, however, the controls were not in place for the whole year.
Based on our work performed, we consider that the judgements and position adopted by management, in aggregate, is reasonable.
com 103 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 3.8m 2016: 5.0m.
Basis for determining materiality 5% of normalised and adjusted profit before tax.
Normalised and adjusted profit before tax has been calculated using an average of historic profit before tax and forecast profit based on brokers consensus forecast.
Historic profit before tax is adjusted to remove one-off and non-recurring items, including costs associated with businesses being exited and restructuring and acquisition related costs.
In the prior year, materiality was determined on the basis of 5.2% of statutory profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark applied We have revised our approach to determining materiality in light of the trading performance in the period and the significant impact of matters identified in the current year and non-trading items on the statutory profit measure.
1 2 1 2 3 1 Group materiality 1 Group materiality 3.8m 2 Normalised and adjusted PBT 75.5m 2 Component materiality range 1.9m to 2.7m 3 Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.19m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 190,000 2016: 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group operates through a number of legal entities which form reporting components based on service lines.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed over the significant legal entities covering all the three trading divisions a change from the four in prior year as two of the trading divisions were merged at the start of the current year and representing approximately 90% 2016: 96% of the Groups revenue, 87% 2016: 100% of Group profit before tax and 83% 2016: 94% of Group net assets.
The Group audit team approved component materiality levels, which ranged from 1.9m to 2.7m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all components was performed by the Group auditors based in each location under the direction and supervision of the Group engagement partner.
The Group engagement partner visited all the component locations.
Various telephone conference meetings were also held with these local auditors throughout the audit process covering planning and fieldwork.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the overseas entities, dormant entities and non-significant entities which were not subject to audit work for the purposes of the Group audit.
104 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1 1 1 2 2 2 Profit Revenue Net Assets before tax 1 Full audit scope 90% 1 Full audit scope 87% 1 Full audit scope 83% 2 Review at group level 10% 2 Review at group level 13% 2 Review at group level 17% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate governance statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report or misleading statements.
to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
com 105 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Charlton FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 12 June 2017 106 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
