TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 54 Independent auditors report to the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is Overview unmodied We have audited the financial statements of Materiality:Group 11.9m TR Property Investment Trust plc for the year financial ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 58 statements as a 1% of Total Assets to 87.
In our opinion: whole the financial statements give a true and fair Risks of material misstatement view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March Recurring risks Valuation of direct 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year property investments then ended: Carrying amount of the Group financial statements have been quoted investments properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
TR Property Investment Trust 54 TR Property pp33-57 12 06 2017 18:46 Page 55 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit signicance, were as follows: The risk Our response Completeness, existence and Subjective valuation Our procedures included: valuation of investment properties 8.2% of the Groups total assets by Assessing valuers credentials: We 97.3m: 2016: 97.8m value is held in property investments assessed the valuers objectivity, where no quoted market price is professional qualifications and Refer to pages 50 to 52 Audit available.
resources through discussions with Committee Report, page 63 the valuer and reading their valuation accounting policy and page 71 Each property is unique and the fair report: financial disclosures.
value requires significant judgement and estimation, in particular over the Methodology choice: We held key assumptions of the estimated discussions with the Groups rental value and the yield.
The key external property valuer to assumptions will be impacted by a determine the valuation number of factors including location, methodology used.
We included quality and condition of the building our own property valuation and tenant credit rating.
specialist to assist us in critically assessing the results of the Whilst comparable market transactions valuers report by checking that the provide good valuation evidence, the valuations were in accordance with unique nature of each property means the RICS Valuation Professional that a key factor in the property Standards the Red Book and IFRS valuations are assumptions with and that the methodology adopted significant judgements and the was appropriate by reference to methodology applied, on which we acceptable valuation practice: focused our audit.
Benchmarking assumptions: With the assistance of our own property valuation specialist, we held discussions with the Groups external property valuer to understand movements in property values.
For a sample of properties, we challenged the key assumptions upon which these valuations were based including those relating to forecast rents, yields, vacant periods and irrecoverable expenditure by making a comparison to our own understanding of the market and to industry benchmarks: Test of detail: We compared a sample of key inputs used in the valuations, such as rental income and occupancy to the Groups property management system and lease contracts: Disclosure assessment: We considered the adequacy of the Group's disclosures about the degree of estimation and sensitivity to key assumptions made when valuing investment properties.
TR Property Investment Trust 55 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 56 The risk Our response Carrying amount of quoted Low risk, high value Our procedures included: investments The Groups portfolio of quoted Control design: Documenting and 1,047.5m: 2016: 1,000.8m investments makes up 88% of the assessing the processes in place Groups total assets by value and is to record investment transactions Refer to pages 50 to 52 Audit considered to be one of the key and to value the portfolio: Committee Report, page 63 drivers of results.
We do not consider accounting policy and page 71 Tests of detail: Agreeing the these investments to be at a high risk financial disclosures.
valuation of 100 per cent of of significant misstatement, or to be investments in the portfolio to subject to a significant level of externally quoted prices: and judgement because they comprise Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing liquid, quoted investments.
However, 100 per cent of investment due to their materiality in the context holdings in the portfolio to of the financial statements as a whole, independently received third party they are considered to be one of the confirmations from investment areas which had the greatest effect on custodians.
our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements Materiality as a whole was set at 11.9m, determined 11.9m with reference to a benchmark of total assets, 11.9m of which, it represents 1%.
Whole financial statements materiality In addition, we applied materiality of 2.0m 2016: 1.5m to income from investments and rental income, for which we believe 10.7m Performance materiality misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to inuence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
Total Assets 0.6m We reported to the Audit Committee any Materiality Misstatements reported to the uncorrected identied misstatements audit committee Total Assets exceeding 595,000 2016: 530,000, in 1,190m addition to other identied misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the Group was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was performed substantially at the administrators ofce.
TR Property Investment Trust 56 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 57 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the the Report of the Audit Committee does not Companies Act 2006 is unmodied appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In our opinion: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be report to you if, in our opinion: audited has been properly prepared in accordance adequate accounting records have not been with the Companies Act 2006: and kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not the information given in the Strategic Report and the been received from branches not visited by us: Directors Report for the financial year is consistent or with the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in Directors remuneration report to be audited are the course of the audit of the financial statements and not in agreement with the accounting records from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors and returns: or Report: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration we have not identied material misstatements in specified by law are not made: or those reports: and we have not received all the information and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in explanations we require for our audit.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of the directors statements, set out on pages 36 principal risks and 31, in relation to going concern and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, longer-term viability respectively: and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relation to: on page 39 relating to the companys the Viability Statement on page 31, concerning the compliance with the eleven provisions of the principal risks, their management, and, based on 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified that, the Directors assessment and expectations for our review.
of the Companys continuing in operation over the We have nothing to report in respect of the above five years to 31 March 2022, or responsibilities.
the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of Scope and responsibilities accounting.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the Statement set out on page 53, the Directors are matters on which we are required to report by responsible for the preparation of the financial statements exception and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils report to you if, based on the knowledge we website at www.
This report acquired during our audit, we have identied other is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is information in the Annual Report that contains a subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding material inconsistency with either that knowledge or our responsibilities, published on our website at the financial statements, a material misstatement of www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should In particular, we are required to report to you if: be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this we have identied material inconsistencies report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our between the knowledge we acquired during our opinions.
audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor and understandable and provides the information for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor necessary for shareholders to assess the Chartered Accountants Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: or 15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL 8 June 2017 TR Property Investment Trust 57
