Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 165 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Great Portland Estates plc Opinion on financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group and Parent Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 25 for the consolidated financial statements and the related notes i to vii for the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identied in the current year were: Valuation of the property portfolio: Acquisitions and disposals, specically the disposal of Rathbone Square: and Revenue recognition.
In the current year, we focused our acquisitions and disposals key risk specically to the disposal of Rathbone Square due to the complex nature and signicance of that transaction.
All other key risks are the same as the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 31 million which was determined on the basis of 1% of Net Asset Value NAV.
Scoping Each subsidiary and joint venture entity is treated as a separate component for the audit.
TheGroup team perform full scope audits for all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit.
significant changes Other than the change in key risks as described above, there has been no other significant in our approach change in the Groups operations.
Financial statements Annual Report 2017 166 Great Portland Estates Independent auditors report Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement We confirm that we have nothing regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting material to add or draw attention to contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement in respect of these matters.
on the longer-term viability of the Group contained on page 67.
We agreed with the directors We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw adoption of the going concern attention to in relation to: basis of accounting and we did the directors conrmation on page 65 that they have carried out a robust not identify any such material assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would uncertainties.
However, because not threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: all future events or conditions can the disclosures on pages 68-75 that describe those risks and explain how they be predicted, this statement is not are being managed or mitigated: aguarantee as to the Groups ability the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether to continue as a going concern.
they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 132 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical We confirm that we are independent Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group of the Group and we have fullled andwe have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with our other ethical responsibilities in thosestandards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Valuation of property portfolio Risk description The Group owns a portfolio of property assets in central London.
The portfolio is valued at 3,145.5 million 2016: 3,703.9 million, including share of joint venture properties, as at 31 March 2017.
The valuation of the portfolio is an area of significant judgement and includes a number of assumptions including capitalisation yields and future rental values.
The level of development activity remains high and therefore continues to be an area of specic focus for our audit due to the judgements required in assessing the value of development properties, such as forecast costs to complete, the level of developers profit, nancing costs and ERVs.
Please see critical judgements and accounting policy at page 142 and 144, notes 10 and 12 to the financial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 96.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 167 How the scope of our We assessed and discussed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work auditresponded to of the external valuer.
We also assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the the risk external valuer.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuer to discuss the results of their work on a sample of properties.
With the assistance of a specialist member of the audit team, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuation model, including yields, occupancy rates, lease incentives and break clauses.
Webenchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to external industry data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
We tested the integrity of a sample of the data provided to the external valuer.
This included verifying a sample of information provided to the external valuer to underlying lease agreements, and verifying costs to complete.
We assessed the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with project managers, testing managements process to forecast costs to complete and inspecting commitments of key developments.
Key observations We conclude that the assumptions used in the valuations are supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
Acquisitions and disposals, specically the disposal of Rathbone Square Risk description The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions and disposals during the year including the sale of Rathbone Square.
In the current year, we focused the acquisitions and disposals risk to the disposal of Rathbone Square due to its signicance to the Group, with the book value of the property disposed of being 391.2 million.
There is a high level of judgement involved in assessing the transfer of risks and rewards to determine the point at which the transaction should be reected in the financial statements, due to the specic contractual terms.
Please see critical judgements and accounting policy at page 142 and 144, notes 10, 11 and 12 to the financial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 96.
How the scope of our audit We reviewed the legal agreements to understand the key contractual terms and nature of the responded to the risk transaction, including the sale and purchase agreement, development agreement and put and call agreement.
Based on the contractual terms we assessed the point at which the sale was unconditional and the risks and rewards transferred.
We assessed whether key terms and pricing were appropriately reected in the calculation ofprot or loss on disposal.
We considered the presentation and disclosure of the transaction in the financial statements.
Key observations We conclude that the disposal of Rathbone Square has been appropriately accounted for and disclosed.
We found no material issues as a result of our procedures.
Revenue recognition Risk description Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income.
Rental income is based on tenancy agreements where there is a standard process in place for recording revenue.
There are however, certain transactions within revenue that have an increased inherent risk of error due to them being impacted by the specic terms and conditions of the relevant tenancy agreements.
These include lease incentives and the accounting for surrender premia.
We have focused our revenue risk to these elements.
Please see the accounting policy at page 143, note 2 to the financial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 96.
How the scope of our audit We have reviewed and understood the key terms and conditions of a sample of leases responded to the risk identifying the quantum of surrender premia and lease incentives.
Werecalculated the required adjustment to the annual rent in relation to these items to determine whether the correct amount of revenue had been recognised in the year.
Key observations We did not identify any material surrender premia in the period.
Revenue was recognised in line with the lease terms and we found the Groups revenue recognition to be in line with accounting standards and the Groups accounting policy.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Financial statements Annual Report 2017 168 Great Portland Estates Independent auditors report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 31 million 2016: 27 million.
Basis for determining materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 31 million 2016: 27 million, which is approximately 1% of NAV 2016: approximately 1% of NAV.
Rationale for the benchmark applied We consider net assets to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric used by management, investors, analysts and lenders.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 2.8 million 2016: 2.2 million based on 5% 2016: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million 2016: 0.55 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reporting threshold has been made following our reassessment of what matters require communicating.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation ofthenancial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained athead ofce.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We perform full scope audits for all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level, which is lower than Group materiality.
This comprises 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups revenue and 100% 2016: 100% of net assets.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 169 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion from these matters.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate from our review.
Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to identied any such inconsistencies report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Financial statements Annual Report 2017 170 Great Portland Estates Independent auditors report Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Muschamp, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 May 2017
