Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Report on the financial statements group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Our opinion prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In our opinion: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Electrocomponents plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 governing the preparation and dissemination of financial and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as adopted by the European Union: as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the group and the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted companys performance, business model and strategy.
Accounting Practice: and Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the pages 34 to 36 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the company financial statements, which have been prepared What we have audited in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017: comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2017: law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial the Group Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: position and profit of the company: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
and company, together with a description of the principal risks These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
and uncertainties that it faces.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company Report is approved: financial statements is United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the group and companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the group and companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Lindsley Ruth David Egan Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director www www.. elec electr troc ocomponents.
c com om S t S ock C tock C ode: E ode: E CM CM 73  Proof 2. indd 73 24 05 2017 16:58:59 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc Our audit approach Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Overview We updated our understanding of the inventory provisioning Inventory obsolescence provision Overall group materiality: 6.4 million which represents 5% of group profit before tax adjusted for methodology and how it is applied.
We assessed the Refer to page 50 Audit Committee Report, page 110 Note 18 exceptional items.
completeness of the data used by the system to calculate the Materiality Inventories and page 86 Note 1. provision by agreeing the subledger to the general ledger.
We identified 7 reporting units which, in our view, required a full scope audit based on their size or risk.
The balance of gross inventories at 31 March 2017 was We recalculated the provision to ensure mathematical accuracy.
We used component teams in 6 countries to perform full scope audits, with the Group team performing the 333.3 million, against which a provision of 29.5 million was We noted no material exceptions.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements judgement The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items, including tax, The valuation of the inventory provision was a focus of our audit regarding the obsolescence percentage applied and expected stock provisioning and treasury prepared by the head office finance function, were audited by the Group Area of focus for the following reasons: future sales levels by comparing these assumptions to historic engagement team.
We found the assumptions to be Electrocomponents business model is based on having the The Group engagement team visited the 2 financially significant component audit teams being UK and US to reasonable.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the product broadest range in the industry and delivering products on discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
For those countries not visited we maintained life cycles by comparing these against historic life cycles of time, often next day.
This results in large quantities of inventory regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
We noted no material exceptions.
comprising many different types of product, being held for The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 79% of group revenues and 87% long periods of time which raises the risk of obsolescence of We tested manual overlays to the automated calculation by of group profit before tax and exceptional items.
understanding the market-specific considerations behind the We focussed on the following areas: There is uncertainty about the impact of product life cycles, adjustments and whether there was a right of return under the the value recoverable from any excess stock, and future sales contractual arrangements.
levels which require management to make assumptions based Hedging and activities relating to guaranteed rates.
on information available at period end.
The inventory provision is calculated within the Groups Revenue cut off.
accounting systems using an automated process.
Where necessary manual overlays are applied to this provision to account for unusual circumstances that may have arisen during the year.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We examined the nature of the hedge relationships that were Hedging and financing activities We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
entered into and whether these were in line with the Groups Refer to page 86 Note 1 and page 113 Note 22 Financial treasury strategy.
For the derivatives outstanding at the year end Instruments.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In we assessed their completeness and existence through obtaining particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge currency external confirmations and their fair value through performing our involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk exposures on centralised inventory procurement and associated own independent calculations.
of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a future cash flows in accordance with parameters approved by the risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We checked compliance with specific hedge accounting Board.
The net fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts requirements for cash flow hedging.
We considered whether the was an asset of 0.5 million.
The Group provides guaranteed The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are hedge accounting documentation and effectiveness rules were foreign exchange rates to its subsidiaries through entering into identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to met and whether hedge accounting could be achieved.
These rates are then used to record external provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in examined the accounting treatment applied for derivatives, in and intercompany inventory purchases.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
particular when reclassifying gains and losses from reserves to assesses the overall hedged exposures and the effectiveness the income statement and adjustments to the carrying value of relative to the actual hedged rates.
We consider the hedge documentation and Rules on accounting for derivative instruments are complex and associated accounting treatment to be appropriate.
hedge accounting requirements, including documentation, can be We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure of complicated.
Lack of compliance with documentation rules, hedge financial instruments and the related hedge accounting by effectiveness rules, and probability criteria could lead to income agreeing the financial statement disclosures to the underlying statement volatility.
workings prepared by management and checking classification is consistent with the accounting principles.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 74  Proof 2. indd 74 24 05 2017 16:58:59 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Financial Statements Our audit approach Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Overview We updated our understanding of the inventory provisioning Inventory obsolescence provision Overall group materiality: 6.4 million which represents 5% of group profit before tax adjusted for methodology and how it is applied.
com Stock Code: ECM 75  Proof 2. indd 75 24 05 2017 16:58:59 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group team visited the financially significant Tax provisioning We updated our detailed understanding of the Groups tax component teams UK and US to meet with local management, obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks strategy and Group transfer pricing policy, particularly in relation Refer to page 86 Note 1 and page 101 Note 10 Income tax arising.
For those countries not visited we had regular communication with the local teams, before, during and after their audit.
We to reorganisation changes which were implemented during expense.
directed the work of component teams, reviewed their approach and findings, and participated in the closing meetings of the significant the year.
Management commissioned a study by the Groups components.
Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax external advisers to specifically consider the impact in respect of jurisdictions it is subject to periodic challenges by local tax transfer pricing.
We obtained and read this study and noted it to The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 79% of group revenues and 87% of group profit before tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course be consistent with the conclusions reached by our own transfer and exceptional items.
These challenges include transaction related tax pricing specialists.
Materiality matters, financing and transfer pricing arrangements arising from We assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to centralised functions that drive value across a number of different The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, business and legislative developments using, where applicable, countries.
In addition there has been a change in the Groups together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit our local and international tax specialists in key jurisdictions transfer pricing operating model following the reorganisation.
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually to assess the reasonableness of provisions held in the context and on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group continues to provide for uncertain tax positions in of local tax law.
We also considered any new developments in respect of transfer pricing and other matters.
The provision is Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: the application of these laws based on our knowledge of tax based on the estimates of the potential outcome of audits by tax legislation and the current position adopted by tax authorities on authorities in jurisdictions in which the Group operates and 6.4 million 2016: 3.6 million.
We further performed analysis on the provisions totals 3.6m.
materiality to assess the risk that challenge on transfer pricing could arise from opposing territories.
How we determined it 5% of group profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
We also considered the impact of audits which have been We believe that profit before tax adjusted for one-off items is the key measure used by the shareholders as a Rationale for concluded during the year on the level of provisions to assess the benchmark applied body in assessing the groups performance.
We consider that excluding the exceptional items is appropriate accuracy of managements estimates of potential tax exposures.
as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the We found managements position to be supportable.
non-recurring impact of these items.
We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group Component materiality were appropriately disclosed in the Financial Statements.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.4 million and 4.2 million.
We have assessed differences between the date of revenue Revenue cut off Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall recognition and the transfer of risks and rewards through Group materiality.
Refer to page 89 Note 3. understanding the terms of shipment and the associated lead The groups accounting systems recognise revenue at the point We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.28 million 2016: times for delivery to the customer.
We tested a sample of revenue that goods are dispatched.
This reflects the fact that the terms and 0.18 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
transactions during the period and around the year end, and also conditions are such that the risks and rewards have passed to the considered the value and nature of the transactions at the prior Going concern customer or that the majority of goods have a guaranteed next day year end.
Based on our audit procedures we noted no material Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern.
We have delivery and so the year on year impact is not material.
nothing to report having performed our review.
Our work identified that the shipping terms are different across the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Group and therefore the risks and rewards do not always pass to the customer on despatch.
This was therefore an area of focus in directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing How we tailored the audit scope the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or group operates.
conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the Groups country reporting units.
functions maintain their own accounting records and controls although transactional processing and certain controls for some reporting units are performed at the Groups European shared service centre and report to the head office finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of the UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, China and Electrocomponents Plc.
In each country we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that country.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 76  Proof 2. indd 76 24 05 2017 16:58:59 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Financial Statements Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
com Stock Code: ECM 77  Proof 2. indd 77 24 05 2017 16:59:00 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Other required reporting of the group Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the directors confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that material to add or to prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity draw attention to.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or We have nothing In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group, the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of mitigated.
material to add or to the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
have nothing to report in this respect.
the directors explanation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 42 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 42 to 47 with respect to the companys corporate Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
3 and risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group, the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ISAs UK & Ireland reporting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received information in the Annual Report is: We have no from branches not visited by us: or exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and the accounting records and returns.
parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration the statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced exceptions to In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent report.
Companies Act 2006. companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified the section of the Annual Report on page 48, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of We have no by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 78  Proof 2. indd 78 24 05 2017 16:59:00 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Financial Statements The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Other required reporting of the group Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the directors confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that material to add or to prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity draw attention to.
com Stock Code: ECM 79  Proof 2. indd 79 24 05 2017 16:59:00 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Independent Auditors Report to the Group Income Statement For the year ended 31 March 2017 members of Electrocomponents plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 2017 2016 Notes m m Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation Revenue 3,4 1,511.7 1,291.1 of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Cost of sales 855.0 740.0 Gross profit 656.7 551.1 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Distribution and marketing expenses 491.0 440.0 Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Central costs 33.4 71.0 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Operating profit 132.3 40.1 Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Financial income 3 4.3 2.3 other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Financial expense 3 9.5 7.5 prior consent in writing.
Profit before tax 3,4, 5 127.1 34.9 What an audit of financial statements involves Income tax expense 10 35.0 13.0 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of the Parent Company 92.1 21.9 that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Earnings per share applied and adequately disclosed: Basic 12 20.9p 5.0p the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Diluted 12 20.8p 5.0p the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Dividends We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing managements judgements against available evidence, forming our own Amounts recognised in the period: judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 11 6.75p 6.75p We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 11 5.00p 5.00p a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
A final dividend of 7.3p per share relating to the year has been proposed since the year end.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent The notes on pages 86 to 127 form part of these Group accounts.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Headline operating profit Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Operating profit 132.3 40.1 Intangible fixed asset write-down 6 11.2 Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Reorganisation costs 6 0.9 30.7 for and on behalf of  LLP 133.2 82.0 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Headline profit before tax 23 May 2017 Profit before tax 127.1 34.9 Intangible fixed asset write-down 6 11.2 Reorganisation costs 6 0.9 30.7 128.0 76.8 Headline earnings per share Basic 12 21.0p 12.6p Diluted 12 20.9p 12.6p Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 80  Proof 2. indd 80 24 05 2017 16:59:00 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two
