F Financials inancials 104 104 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Overview 1.
Our opinion on the financial Materiality: 4.7m 2016: 4.0m statements is unmodified group financial 0.82% 2016: 0.93% of Revenue We have audited the financial statements of BTG plc statements as a whole the Group for the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on Coverage 95% pages 110 to 156.
In our opinion: 2016: 88% of Revenue the financial statements give a true and fair view of Risks of material vs 2016 the state of the Groups and of the parent companys misstatement affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit Recurring risks Recoverability of other intangible assets and goodwill for the year then ended: Recognition of deferred tax assets the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 105 105 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows.
We note the risk surrounding the Department of Justices DoJ investigation included in our 2016 report is no longer relevant as this matter was agreed and settled with the US government in the period.
We also note that in the prior year the significant risk over recoverability of intangible assets also included goodwill.
Goodwill has been removed due to the significant headroom on the prior year impairment review.
The risk Our response Recoverability of Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: intangible assets The assessment of the Our sector experience: Assess the completeness 678.9m: 2016: 599.2m recoverability of intangible and existence of the Groups assessment of assets requires significant Refer to page 61 Audit potential impairment indicators and independently judgement in determining the Committee Report, page perform our own assessment of these indicators future prospects, results and 119 accounting policy and through inquiry of the business area heads, forecast cash flows of the cash page 132 financial assessment of performance in the year, and generating units to which other disclosures.
research of publicly available information.
Methodology choice: Evaluated the process by Due to the challenges in which the Group prepared its cash flow forecasts expanding reimbursement and compared them against the latest Board coverage for Varithena and approved plans and forecasts.
PneumRx Coils and the risk Our sector experience: Using our own valuation in obtaining required clinical specialists to critically challenge the and regulatory approval for appropriateness of the discount rates used by the PneumRx Coils in the Group and benchmark them to those used by an U. S. these assets remain external peer group.
relatively more sensitive to Historical comparisons: Critically challenge the impairment.
In addition, the assumed revenue projections by reference to those litigation risk for the Vistogard achieved historically, and external market data, asset means it is also relatively where available, in terms of market size and more sensitive to impairment.
There is inherent uncertainty Historical comparisons: Critically assess the involved in forecasting and other assumptions used by the Group using our discounting future cash flows, own assessments and a comparison to recent which are the basis of the performance in relation to key inputs such as assessment of recoverability.
We specifically assessed the The carrying values of probability of FDA approval of PneumRx Coils intangible assets for and the likelihood of a successful defence in the Varithena, PneumRx Coils Wellstat litigation.
and Vistogardat 31 March 2017 Sensitivity analysis: Apply sensitivities to the were 18.8m, 208.6m and assumptions used by the Group in impairment 6.4m respectively.
calculations to evaluate the impact on the headroom for each CGU.
Assessing transparency: Assess whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying value of the intangible assets in the next financial year are appropriate.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 106 106 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only continued The risk Our response Recognition of deferred Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: tax assets The Group has significant tax Our sector experience: Assess whether the use Refer to page 61 Audit losses which have been of tax losses within the group is in line with Committee Report, page acquired as part of business applicable tax laws, and with particular focus on 121 accounting policy and combinations or from past areas which directly impact the carrying value of page 129 financial business performance.
There is deferred tax assets: the likelihood of generating disclosures.
inherent uncertainty involved sufficient future taxable profits, and the ability to in assessing both the utilise tax losses.
availability of losses for use and With the assistance of our tax specialists, in in forecasting future taxable relation to previous acquisitions, we considered profits, which determines the previous assessments and conclusions for the extent to which deferred tax continued appropriateness of deferred tax asset assets are recognised.
In relation to the Galil Medical acquisition during the period, we critically assessed the Groups analysis of the historic losses acquired.
Evaluate the appropriateness of the Groups key assumptions and estimates, with the assistance of our tax specialists, in particular the likelihood of generating sufficient future taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets, with reference to recent product launches, performance trends and acquisitions.
Assessing transparency: Assess whether the Groups disclosures around the judgements and estimates involved in the recognition of deferred tax assets are appropriate.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 107 107 Revenue 3.
Our application of materiality and an 570.5m 2016: 447.5m overview of the scope of our audit Materiality 4.7m 2016: 4.0m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 4.7 million 2016: 4.0 million, determined 4.7m Whole financial with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, of statements materiality 2016: 4.0m which it represents 0.82% 2016: 0.93%.
We consider 1 Group revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as 3.2m Range of materiality revenue remains the key performance indicator of the 2 at 10 components group monitored by stakeholders.
0.1m-3.2m 2016: 0.2m to 3.9m We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 0.2m 2016: 0.2m, in addition to other identified 0.2m misstatements that warranted reporting on Misstatements reported 1 Revenue to the audit committee qualitative grounds.
2 Group materiality 2016: 0.2m Of the Groups 28 2016: 25 reporting components, we subjected 9 2016:14 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 1 2016: 1 to specified risk-focused audit procedures on key working capital captions.
The latter component was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
In aggregate, the components within the Group Group profit scope of our work accounted for the following Revenue before tax percentages of the groups results: 95% 2016: 88% of total Group revenue: 90% 2016: 95% of Group profit 11 1 before tax: and 96% 2016: 96% of the Groups 1 1 total assets.
The group team instructed component auditors as to the 95% 90% 2016: 88% 2016: 95% significant areas to be covered and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component 87 94 materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 3.2m 2016: 89 84 0.2m to 3.9m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group team performed the work on recoverability Group of intangible assets and recognition of deferred tax total assets assets.
Of the 10 components noted above, two are based in the USA, one in Australia and five within sites 2 in the UK England and Wales, these were all audited 1 by KPMG component teams.
The remaining two components were audited by the group team.
96% 2016: 96% The group team visited three 2016: two component locations in the USA, England and Wales.
Video or 95 telephone conference meetings were also held with the 94 component auditors including those that were not physically visited by the group team Australia.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 team were discussed in more detail, and any further Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 work required by the group team was then performed by Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 the component auditor.
Residual components B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 108 108 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the matters on which we are required to is unmodified report by exception In our opinion: Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audit, we have identified other information in the Annual audited has been properly prepared in accordance Report that contains a material inconsistency with either with the Companies Act 2006: and that knowledge or the financial statements, a material the information given in the Strategic Report and the misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Directors Report for the financial year is consistent In particular, we are required to report to you if: with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken we have identified material inconsistencies between in the course of the audit of the financial statements the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors statement that they consider that the Directors Report: Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and we have not identified material misstatements in provides the information necessary for shareholders those reports: and to assess the Groups position and performance, in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in business model and strategy: or accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit 5.
We have nothing to report on the Committee.
disclosures of principal risks Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, to you if, in our opinion: we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our the Directors statement of viability on page 35, audit have not been received from branches not concerning the principal risks, their management, visited by us: or and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation the parent company financial statements and the over the three years to 31 March 2020: or part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements records and returns: or concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 100 and 101, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 44 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 109 109 Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 15 May 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017
