DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Daejan Holdings Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Daejan Holdings Plc for the year ended 31 March 2017, set out on pages 49 to 82.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland:and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: 21.6m 2016: 19.7m Group financial 0.9% 2016: 0.9% statements as a whole of Gross Assets Lower materiality applied to certain items 2.4m 2016: 2.5m Coverage 100% 2016: 100% of Gross Assets Risk of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risks Valuation of investment property Current tax liability 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risk of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit significances that had the greatest effect on our audit, was as follows unchanged from 2016 : The risk Valuation of investment property Investment property 2,256.8 million: 2016: 2,009.4 million Refer to page 11 Strategic Report, page 39 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 57 Significant accounting policies and page 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Page 44 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Subjective valuation Investment properties represent 93.7% 2016: 93% of gross assets of the Group.
The property portfolios are externally valued by qualified independent valuers and held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Determination of the fair value of the investment properties is considered a significant audit risk due to the magnitude of the balance and the subjective nature of the valuations which depend on the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Our response Our procedures included: Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the valuers objectivity, professional qualifications and capabilities through discussions with the valuers, reading their valuation reports, and reviewing their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
Methodology choice: we held discussions with the Groups external property valuers to determine the valuation methodology used.
We used our own property valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing that the valuations were in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book for the valuers of the UK portfolio, and the Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice of the Appraisal Institute for the valuers of the US portfolio, and that the methodologies adopted were appropriate by reference to acceptable valuation practice.
Our sector experience: with the assistance of our own property valuation specialists we held discussions with the Groups directors and external property valuers to understand movements in property values.
With the Groups CFO and external property valuers we discussed and challenged the performance of the portfolios and significant judgements and assumptions applied including forecast rents, yields, discount rates, vacant periods and irrecoverable expenditure by making a comparison to our own understanding of the market and to industry benchmarks.
Test of detail: for a sample of properties we compared key inputs used in the valuations, such as rental income and occupancy to underlying property records.
Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures on the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs employed in the valuation.
The risk Current tax liability 47.2 million 2016: 44.8 million Refer to page 39 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 57 Significant accounting policies and page 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Inquiry outcome Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is a key audit risk due to the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities and complexity of tax legislation.
Page 45 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued The Group has a number of open periods with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC as a result of ongoing enquiries into the interpretation of tax legislation regarding transactions undertaken by the Group.
Our response Our procedures included: Our tax expertise: we used our own internal tax specialists to assist us in assessing the Groups open tax positions.
With the assistance of our internal tax specialists we inspected the latest correspondence between the Group and HMRC regarding open matters.
In addition, we read legal advice or opinions obtained in the period in relation to uncertain tax positions, in order to consider whether the level of accruals recognised at year end is based on up to date legal advice in response to HMRCs challenges.
We analysed and challenged the assumptions used to determine tax accruals based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
Assessing transparency: we assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions by reference to relevant accounting standards.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 21.6 million 2016: 19.7 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.9% 2016: 0.9%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 2.4 million 2016: 2.5 million determined with regard to a normalised profit before tax to rental income, property operating expenses, administrative expenses and financial expenses, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We report to the Board any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1,080,000 2016: 985,000 and 118,000 2016: 125,000 for rental income, property operating expenses, administrative expenses and financial expenses, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group has 50 2016: 50 group reporting components, one of which is a sub-group in the UK which was audited by component auditors, subject to a full-scope audit performed to materiality of 0.8 million 2016: component materiality of 1 million.
A second sub-group in the US was subject to a full-scope audit by the Group engagement team to component materiality of 1 million 2016: audited by component auditor to component materiality of 0.3 million.
The remaining 48 2016: 48 components were audited by the Group engagement team and were subject to full-scope audits performed to component materialities ranging from 1,995 to 1.9 million 2016: 1,995 to 2.4 million.
The Group team approved the component materialities having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team instructed the component auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The 50 components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of each of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
Page 46 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Group audit team visited the component audited by the component auditor to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At this visit, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Total Assets 2,407 million 2016: 2,158 million Materiality 21.6 million 2016: 19.7 million Range of materiality of the 50 components 1,995 to 1.9 million 2016: 1,995 to 2.4 million Total Assets Group materiality 1.08 million Misstatements reported to the Board 2016: 1 million 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports, have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of viability statement on page 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the 5 year period of their assessment: or the disclosures on page 41 of the Corporate Governance Report concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Page 47 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 41 and 26, in relation to going concern and longerterm viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 41 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 42 and 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 24 July 2017 Page 48
