National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 41 Independent Auditors report to the Members of National Grid Gas plc adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The Report on the financial statements financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Our opinion preparation of the company financial statements is United In our opinion: Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic National Grid Gas plcs group financial statements and of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally company financial statements the financial statements Accepted Accounting Practice.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: made a number of subjective judgements, for example in the group financial statements have been properly respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such prepared in accordance with International Financial estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the events.
European Union: the company financial statements have been properly Opinions on other matters prescribed by the prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Companies Act 2006 the financial statements have been prepared in In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act the audit: 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB financial statements: and As explained in the Basis of preparation to the financial the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been statements, the group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the In our opinion, the group financial statements comply with group, the company and their environment obtained in the IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report What we have audited and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and respect.
Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of March 2017: the audit: the company balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: the information given in the Corporate Governance the consolidated income statement and consolidated Statement set out on pages 29 to 36 with respect to statement of comprehensive income for the year then internal control and risk management systems and about ended: share capital structures is consistent with the financial the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then statements and has been prepared in accordance with ended: applicable legal requirements: and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the the information given in the Corporate Governance year then ended: Statement set out on pages 29 to 36 with respect to the the company statement of changes in equity for the year companys corporate governance code and practices and then ended: about its administrative, management and supervisory the accounting policies: and bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 in the the notes to the financial statements, which include other Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook explanatory information.
of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as group, the company and their environment obtained in the 42 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 course of the audit, we are required to report if we have assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other identified any material misstatements in the information referred person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
We have come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in nothing to report in this respect.
What an audit of financial statements involves Other matters on which we are required to report We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & by exception Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the Adequacy of accounting records and information and amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to explanations received give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or if, in our opinion: error.
This includes an assessment of: we have not received all the information and explanations whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the we require for our audit: or groups and the companys circumstances and have been adequate accounting records have not been kept by the consistently applied and adequately disclosed: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates received from branches not visited by us: or made by the directors: and the company financial statements are not in agreement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors remuneration directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration statements.
specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report We test and examine information, using sampling and other arising from this responsibility.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Corporate governance statement provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
We have no exceptions to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial report arising from this responsibility.
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Responsibilities for the financial statements and identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect the audit based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Our responsibilities and those of the directors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or As explained more fully in the Statement of the Directors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied consider whether those reports include the disclosures required that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Richard French Senior Statutory Auditor International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK for and on behalf of  LLP & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
London This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 30 June 2017 only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or
