Annual financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 04 the International Ethics Standards Board for assessing the groups ability to continue as Opinion Accountants that are relevant to our audit a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, of the financial statements and we have matters relating to going concern and using We have audited the accompanying fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in the going concern basis of accounting special purpose financial statements of accordance with these requirements.
We unless management either intends to Investec plc the group which comprise believe that the audit evidence we have liquidate the group or to cease operations, the consolidated balance sheet as at obtained is sufficient and appropriate to or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
31March 2017, and the consolidated provide a basis for our opinion.
income statement, consolidated statement Those charged with governance are of comprehensive income, statement of Certain disclosures required by the financial responsible for overseeing the groups changes in equity and cash flow statement reporting framework have been presented financial reporting process.
for the year then ended, and notes 1 to in the Risk management and corporate 56 to the financial statements.
The special Auditors governance report in Section 3 of the purpose financial statements have been Annual Report, rather than in the notes of Responsibilities for the prepared by the directors in accordance the financial statements and have been with the accounting policies set out on Audit of the Financial identified as audited.
Statements Emphasis of Matter Under the contractual arrangements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable implementing the dual listed companies Basis of Accounting assurance about whether the special structure, Investec plc and Investec purpose financial statements as a whole are and Restriction on Limited effectively form a single economic free from material misstatement, whether enterprise, in which the economic and Distribution and Use due to fraud or error, and to issue an voting rights of shareholders are equalised.
auditors report that includes our opinion.
We draw attention to accounting policies In accordance with this structure the Reasonable assurance is a high level of set out on pages 184 to 192 to the financial appropriate presentation under International assurance, but is not a guarantee that an statements, which describes the basis of Financial Reporting Standards as adopted audit conducted in accordance with ISAs accounting.
The financial statements are by the European Union is achieved by will always detect a material misstatement prepared to assist the board of Investec combining the results and the financial when it exists.
Misstatements can arise plc in complying with the financial reporting position of both companies using merger from fraud or error and are considered provisions of the contract referred to above.
Those combined material if, individually or in the aggregate, As a result, the financial statements may consolidated financial statements are they could reasonably be expected to not be suitable for another purpose.
Our prepared separately so as to show a influence the economic decisions of users report is intended solely for the board true and fair view in accordance with taken on the basis of these special purpose of Investec plc, in accordance with our International Financial Reporting Standards financial statements.
engagement letter dated 14 May 2015, as adopted by the European Union.
and should not be distributed to or used As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, by parties other than the board of Investec As explained in the accounting policies, we exercise professional judgement and plc.
Our opinion is not modified in respect these special purpose financial statements maintain professional scepticism throughout of this matter.
have been prepared to present the financial the audit.
We also: position, results and cash flows of Investec Identify and assess the risks of material Responsibilities of plc and its subsidiaries.
For the avoidance misstatement of the special purpose of doubt, they exclude Investec Limited and Management and financial statements, whether due to its subsidiaries.
fraud or error, design and perform Those Charged with audit procedures responsive to those In our opinion, the accompanying financial Governance for the risks, and obtain audit evidence that statements of the group for the year is sufficient and appropriate to provide Financial Statements ended 31 March 2017 are prepared, in all a basis for our opinion.
The risk of material respects, in accordance with the Management is responsible for the not detecting a material misstatement accounting policies set out on pages 184 preparation of the special purpose financial resulting from fraud is higher than for to 192. statements in accordance with the financial one resulting from error, as fraud may reporting provisions under the contractual involve collusion, forgery, intentional Basis for Opinion arrangements implementing the dual listed omissions, misrepresentations, or the companies structure, and for such internal override of internal control.
We conducted our audit in accordance control as management determines is with International Standards on Auditing Obtain an understanding of internal necessary to enable the preparation of ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those controls relevant to the audit in order financial statements that are free from standards are further described in the to design audit procedures that are material misstatement, whether due to Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of appropriate in the circumstances, but fraud or error.
the Financial Statements section of our not for the purpose of expressing an report.
We are independent of the group in In preparing the special purpose financial opinion on the effectiveness of the accordance with the ethical requirements of statements, management is responsible for groups internal control.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 177 Annual financial statements Independent auditors report to the 04 members of Investec plc continued Evaluate the appropriateness of Other matter accounting policies used and the Investec plc has prepared a separate reasonableness of accounting estimates set of statutory financial statements and related disclosures made by for the year ended 31 March 2017 in management.
accordance with both International Conclude on the appropriateness of Financial Reporting Standards as adopted managements use of the going concern by the European Union and International basis of accounting and, based on Financial Reporting Standards as issued the audit evidence obtained, whether by the International Accounting Standards a material uncertainty exists related Board and Companies Act 2006 on which to events or conditions that may cast we issued a separate auditors report to significant doubt on the groups ability the shareholders of Investec plc dated to continue as a going concern.
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to Andy Bates Senior Statutory Auditor modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, based on the audit evidence obtained Statutory Auditor up to the date of our auditors report.
London However, future events or conditions 14June 2017 may cause the group to cease to continue as a going concern.
The maintenance and integrity of the Investec We communicate with those charged plc website is the responsibility of the directors: with governance regarding, among other the work carried out by the auditors does matters, the planned scope and timing not involve consideration of these matters of the audit and significant audit findings, and, accordingly, the auditors accept no including any significant deficiencies in responsibility for any changes that may have internal control that we identify during occurred to the annual financial statements ouraudit.
since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of annual financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
178 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017
