Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of LandSecurities Group PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Land Securities Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: The Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Land Securities Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 39 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 39 to the financial statements Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement The valuation of investment property including properties within the development programme and investment properties held in joint ventures Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition, the treatment of rents, incentives and recognition of trading property proceeds.
Audit scope The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom and operates through two segments, London and Retail, both ofwhich were subject to the same audit scope.
This included the Group audit team performing direct audit procedures on joint venture balances included within the Group financial statements.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 61m which represents 0.5% of the carrying value of investment properties line item inthe Group balance sheet at 31 March 2017 Specific materiality of 21m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax is applied to account balances not related to investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS asadopted by the European Union and as regards the Parent company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 97 Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee The valuation of the investment Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment property included: We have audited the inputs, property portfolio, including assumptions and methodology We evaluated the Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the properties within the used by the external valuer.
We investment property portfolio and managements review of the valuations.
development programme and conclude that the methodology We evaluated the competence of the external valuer which included consideration investment properties held in applied is reasonable and that of their qualifications and expertise.
joint ventures the external valuations are an appropriate assessment of the We met with the Groups external valuer to discuss their valuation approach and 2017: 12,144m in investment market value of investment the judgements they made in assessing the property valuation such as estimated properties and 1,763m the properties at 31 March 2017. rental value, yield profile and other assumptions that impact the value.
Groups share in investment properties held in joint ventures Our Chartered Surveyors concluded For a sample of properties, we performed testing over source documentation 2016: 12,358m in investment that the sample of valuations provided by the Group to the external valuer.
This included agreeing a sample of properties and 1,630m in they reviewed were within a this documentation back to underlying lease data and vouching costs incurred to investment properties held in reasonable range.
date in respect of development properties.
We also assessed the reasonableness joint ventures of the costs to complete information in respect of properties in the course of We conclude that management development by comparing the total forecast costs to contractual arrangements Refer to the Accountability provided an appropriate level and approved budgets.
section of the Annual Report of review and challenge over pages 70-74 : Accounting policies the valuations but did not We included Chartered Surveyors on our audit team who reviewed and challenged page 119-120 : Note 14 identify evidence of undue the valuation approach and assumptions for a sample of properties which of the Financial Statements management influence.
comprised 69% of the market value of investment properties including pages 121-123 and Note 16 investment properties held in joint ventures.
Our Chartered Surveyors compared of the Financial Statements the equivalent yields applied to each property to an expected range of yields pages 124-129 taking into account market data and asset specific considerations.
They also considered whether the other assumptions applied by the external valuer, such The valuation of investment as the estimated rental values, voids, tenant incentives and development costs property including properties to complete were supported by available data such as recent lettings and within the development occupancy levels.
programme and investment properties held in joint ventures Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the external valuer to requires significant judgement and discuss the findings from our audit work described above and to seek further estimates by management and explanations as required.
We also discussed the impact of current market the external valuer.
Any input conditions, including Brexit, on the property valuations.
inaccuracies or unreasonable We conducted analytical procedures by comparing assumptions and the value bases used in these judgements of each property in the portfolio on a year-on-year basis, by reference to our such as in respect of estimated understanding of the UK real estate market, external market data and asset rental value and yield profile specific considerations to evaluate the appropriateness of the valuations adopted applied could result in a material by the Group.
We investigated further the valuations of some properties which misstatement of the income included further discussions with management and, where appropriate, statement and balance sheet.
obtaining evidence to support the movement in values and involvement of There is also a risk that our Chartered Surveyors.
management may influence We attended meetings between management and the external valuer to assess the significant judgements for evidence of undue management influence and we obtained a confirmation and estimates in respect of from the external valuer that they had not been subject to undue influence property valuations in order to from management.
achieve property valuation and other performance targets to We utilised our analytical procedures and work of the Chartered Surveyors meet market expectations or described above in order to assess for evidence of undue management influence.
We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties in the development programme, which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these developments.
We met with development directors and project managers for major properties inthe development programme and assessed project costs, progress of development and leasing status and considered the reasonableness of the forecast costs to complete included in the valuations as well as identified contingencies, exposures and remaining risks.
We corroborated the information provided by the development directors and the project managers through valuation review, site visits and cost analysis.
We also reviewed development feasibilities and monthly development reporting against budget.
Scope of our procedures We performed full scope audit procedures over valuation of the whole of investment property, including properties within the development programme and investment properties held in joint ventures.
98 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue recognition, including Our audit procedures over revenue recognition included: We audited the timing of revenue the timing of revenue recognition, treatment of rents We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition and the recognition, the treatment and incentives and recognition treatment of rents which have been designed by the Group to prevent and of rents, incentives and of trading property proceeds and detect fraud and errors in revenue recognition.
This included testing the recognition of trading assessed the risk of management controls governing approvals and changes to lease terms and the upload of property proceeds override.
Based upon the audit this information to the Groups property information management system.
procedures performed, we 2017: 587m rental income and We also performed controls testing on the billings process.
concluded that revenue has been 62m trading property sales We selected a sample of new or amended lease agreements in the year and recognised on an appropriate proceeds 2016: 603m rental agreed the data input into PIMS, the property management information basis in the year.
income and 195m trading system, including lease incentive clauses.
property sales proceeds We performed detailed testing for a sample of revenue transactions by agreeing Refer to the Accountability section them back to lease agreements.
This included focusing upon incentives included of the Annual Report pages within lease agreements and we critically assessed whether the appropriate 70-74 : Accounting policies accounting treatment had been followed.
page 113 : and Note 6 Detailed analytical procedures were performed on the recognition of revenue, of the Financial Statements including rents, incentives and other property related revenue to assess whether page 113 revenue had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
Market expectations and revenue We agreed a sample of lease agreements to the schedules used to calculate profit based targets may place straight-lining of revenue in accordance with SIC 15 Operating Leases Incentives pressure on management to and corroborated the arithmetical accuracy of these schedules and the resulting distort revenue recognition.
This amounts in revenue for straight-lining of tenant lease incentives.
may result in overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in We challenged the assessment of recoverability of tenant lease incentives meeting current or future targets receivable balance by evaluating the financial viability of the major tenants with or expectations.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls including journal entry testing, which included particular focus on journal entries which impact revenue.
We tested a sample of trading property proceeds recognised during the year through agreement to contracts and cash to bank in order to verify that revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Scope of our procedures The whole Group was subject to full scope audit procedures over revenue.
Compared to the prior year, there have been no changes to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom and operates through two segments, London and Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit scope.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and Parent company audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit work on the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 99 Independent Auditors Report continued The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: Basis Materiality Performance materiality Audit differences Overall 0.5% of carrying value of 61m 46m 3m investmentproperties 2016: 62m 2016: 46m 2016: 3m Account balances not related to Profit before tax, excluding the impact 21m 16m 1m investment properties either wholly of the net deficit on revaluation of 2016: 21m 2016: 16m 2016: 1m owned or held within joint ventures investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures and the impact of the redemption of medium term notes Adjusted PBT When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined that the carrying value of investment property would be the most appropriate basis for determining overall materiality given that the Groups investment property balance accounts for around 82% of the Groups total assets 2016: 82% and the fact that key users of the Groups financial statements are primarily focused on the valuation of the investment property portfolio.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We have determined that for other account balances not related to investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures a misstatement of less than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could influence the economic decisions of users.
We have determined that materiality for these areas should be based upon profit before tax of 112m, excluding the impact of the net deficit on revaluation of investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures of 146m and the impact of the redemption of medium term notes of 170m Adjusted PBT as overall materiality is applied to the net deficit on revaluation.
We believe that it is appropriate to use a profit based measure as profit is also a focus of users of the financial statements.
This year the calculation of Adjusted PBT excludes the impact of the redemption of medium term notes, given this is expected to be a non-recurring item.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual carrying value of investment properties was in line with that which we had used as the initial basis for determining overall materiality, our final materiality was consistent with the materiality we calculated initially.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality and specific performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% 2016: 75% of the respective materiality.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to confirm that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 3m 2016: 3m, as well as audit differences in excess of 1m 2016: 1m that relate to our specific testing of the other account balances not related to investment properties which are set at 5% of their respective planning materiality.
We also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
100 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the We have no exceptions to report.
reporting annual report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in We have no exceptions to report.
2006 reporting the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
requirements The Directors statement in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, set out on page 54: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 101 Independent Auditors Report continued Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to We have nothing material to Ireland reporting draw attention to in relation to: add or to draw attention to.
The Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and The Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 17 May 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Land Securities Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
