Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Pets at Home Group plc for the year ended 30 March 2017 set out on pages 117 to178.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: 3.75m 2016:3.5m Group financial statements as a whole 3.9% of profit before tax 2016: 3.8% Coverage 99% 2016: 99% of profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Carrying value of goodwill Recurring risks Carrying value of inventory 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows unchanged from 2016 : The Risk Our response Carrying value of goodwill Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Goodwill is a significant item within the Control design: Evaluating the Groups budgeting procedures 979.8m: 2016: 964.9m Groups balance sheet: the valuation and methodology upon which the forecasts are based: ofwhich is sensitive to changes in key Our sector experience: Using our own valuation specialist to Refer to page 83 Audit assumptions.
assist us in evaluating the discount rate used by the Group: Committee Report, page 127 Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing assumptions and accounting policy and page Due to the inherent uncertainty involved methodologies used by the Group to externally derived data as 143 financialdisclosures.
inforecasting and discounting future cash well as our own assessment, using knowledge of the company flows, which are the basis of the assessment and sector, of key inputs such as projected economic growth, of recoverability, goodwill is one of the key cost inflation and discount rates: judgemental areas within our audit.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing break-even analysis to understand the sensitivity of the conclusions reached to changes in assumptions: Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of projected cash flows and book value to the Groups market capitalisation toassess the reasonableness of those cash flows: and Assessing transparency: Evaluating the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions.
Carrying value of inventory Subjective estimate Our procedures included: The Group has significant levels of inventory Control design: Evaluating the Groups controls designed 56.4m: 2016: 52.5m and estimates are made in the valuation toidentify slow moving and obsolete inventories: ofslow moving and obsolete inventories, Our sector experience: Assessing the appropriateness of Refer to page 83 Audit some of which have a limited shelf life.
theGroups inventory provisioning policies based on our Committee Report, page 128 Furthermore there is uncertainty over understanding of the business, the industry and the accuracy accounting policy and page changes in consumer preferences and of previous provisioning estimates: and 144 financialdisclosures.
spending patterns, which are primarily driven Tests of detail: Comparing the cost of inventory lines and by wider trends in the pet product industry average sales price in the six weeks to 30 March 2017 aswell as seasonality, but which could tohighlight negative margin lines and comparing the value impact the saleability of inventory.
tothe Groups calculation for provision at the year-end date.
A comparison, by product, of inventory levels to sales data There is a recoverability risk associated with toassess whether slow moving and obsolete inventories had new product launches and the judgement been appropriately identified and provided for by the Group required in forecasting demand, including based on the provisioning policy.
thepossible change in demand between the time the inventory order is placed with the supplier and making the product available for sale, which can lead to obsolete inventory.
Given the level of judgement and estimation involved carrying value of inventory is considered to be a key audit risk.
Pets at Home Group Plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.75m 2016: 3.5m, determined with reference toabenchmark of Group profit before taxation, of which it represents 3.9% 2015: 3.8%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 180,000 2016: 175,000, inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We performed audits for group reporting purposes at 3 2016: 3 of the Groups 9 2016: 7 reporting components, and a review offinancial information, including enquiry, at one more component of a veterinary referrals centre acquired within the year.
The latter was not individually significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but we performed a review of financial information due to the acquisition having been made in the year.
The level of coverage from audits for group reporting purposes and review of the veterinary specialist referral component are illustrated below.
For the remaining component, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were nosignificant risks of material misstatement within these components.
The audits of components for group reporting purposes were performed by both the group audit team and component auditors andthe review was performed by component auditors.
The group team instructed the component auditors as to the significant areas tobe covered, which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team approved the component materiality range of 2.5m to 3.0m 2016: 2.25m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
Telephone conferences and meetings were held with component auditors that were not physically visited in order to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group team was then performed by the component auditor.
profit before tax Materiality 95.4m 2016: 92.1m 3.75m 2016: 3.5m 3.75m Whole financial statements materiality 2016: 3.5m 2.5m 3.0m Materiality range of 2.5m to 3.0m at three components 2016: 2.25m at three components 180k Misstatements reported to the Pro t before tax audit committee 2016: 175k Group materiality Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 2 0 0 1 1 1 99% 99% 98% 2016: 99% 2016: 99% 2016: 99% 98 98 98 96 99 99 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Speci ed risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 Speci ed risk-focused audit procedures 2016 Residual components Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading theStrategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement of viability on page 79, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31 March 2020: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 79 and 125, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 74 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions ofthe2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as ifset out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountant 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 24 May 2017 Pets at Home Group Plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
