Financial Statements 101 Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Overview of our audit approach the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Risks of material misstatement Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 11 March 2017 and of the Supplier arrangements Groups profit for the year then ended: Aspects of revenue recognition the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in HRG acquisition purchase price allocation accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Financial Services customer receivables impairment the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in IT environment accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Audit scope the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We performed a full scope audit of the complete financial requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group information of the following components: J Sainsbury plc, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Sainsburys and Argos trading entities and Sainsburys Bank.
We performed audit procedures on specific balances including What we have audited for the property companies, joint ventures and the insurance J Sainsbury plcs financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 11 March 2017 company due to the size and risk of certain individual balances comprise: within these components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit Group Parent company procedures accounted for 92 per cent of profit before tax before Consolidated income statement Balance sheet items noted below, 99 per cent of revenue and 96 per cent of Group statement of comprehensive Statement of changes in equity total assets.
income Materiality Group balance sheet Related notes 1 to 12 to the financial Overall Group materiality is 34 million which represents 5.1 per statements cent of profit before tax before items noted below.
Group cash flow statement Group statement of changes in equity Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Related notes 1 to 37 to the financial statements We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Changes from the prior year Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The Group acquired Home Retail Group plc in the year and we have reflected Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
this in our risk assessment, the results of which are below.
We have identified similar risks of material misstatements in Home Retail Group compared to the pre-existing Sainsburys Group.
We have therefore included the risks relating to legacy Home Retail Group components Argos and Argos Financial Services together where appropriate in the risks below and we have adopted a similar audit strategy where possible.
We have designated Argos as a full scope component and performed audit procedures on specific balances including in the Argos Financial Services and Argos Asia entities.
102 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Risk Risk Supplier arrangements Aspects of revenue recognition Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 68 : Accounting policies Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 68 : Accounting policies page 114 : and note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 114 page 120 : and note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 117 The Group receives material discounts from suppliers, referred to as supplier Our assessment is that the vast majority of the Groups revenue transactions arrangements.
Complex supplier arrangements recognised in the income are non-complex, with no judgement applied over the amount recorded.
statement for the financial year are 343 million 2015 16: 371 million.
These We focused our work on the manual adjustments that are made to revenue.
arrangements are described in note 2 to the financial statements.
Our procedures were designed to address the risk of manipulation of We focused our audit procedures on the areas where management applies accounting records and the ability to override controls.
judgement, where the processing is either manual or more complex and Our response to the risk where the quantum of agreements is high.
We obtained a detailed understanding of these manual adjustments.
Our response to the risk Due to the manual nature of these adjustments, we performed We walked through the controls in place within the supplier arrangements substantive audit procedures.
We were able to take a controls-reliance approach over certain We used our computer-aided analytics tools to identify those revenue aspects of the process, testing the key controls.
journals for which the corresponding entry was not cash.
These entries We selected a sample of suppliers to whom we sent confirmations across include Nectar points, coupons and vouchers.
all deal types to confirm key deal input terms.
We did not receive any We obtained corroborating evidence for such corresponding entries.
responses where suppliers disagreed with the deal terms recorded.
Where For the Nectar points adjustment we obtained evidence from the we did not receive a response from the supplier, we performed alternative administrator of the scheme.
For third party coupons and vouchers we procedures, including obtaining evidence of initiation and settlement of obtained evidence of collection and settlement.
Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the We tested the existence and valuation of balance sheet amounts appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other recognised in accounts receivable and as a contra-asset in accounts adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
payable by reviewing post period end settlement.
We also performed We considered unusual journals such as those posted outside expected a look-back analysis of prior period balance sheet amounts to check hours, or by unexpected individuals, and for large or unusual amounts.
that these amounts were appropriately recovered.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee We tested the settlement of a sample of supplier arrangements Adjustments to revenue have been appropriately recognised.
recognised in the income statement, which included settlement in cash or by off-set to accounts payable.
Risk Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the Financial Services customer receivables impairment appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments to supplier Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 68 : Accounting policies arrangements to corroborating evidence.
page 133 : and note 15b of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 133 We tested deals recorded post period end and obtained the supplier agreement to validate that the deal was correctly recorded post Financial Services customer receivables, through either credit cards, loans or period end.
Argos store cards, are significant.
Total amounts recognised at 28 February 2017 are 4,602 million 2016: 3,344 million.
The provision for impairment We read managements disclosure in respect of supplier arrangements is 89 million 2016: 79 million.
There is judgement in the assumptions amounts recorded in the income statement and balance sheet to confirm applied to calculate the loan provisions against outstanding balances.
completeness and accuracy of amounts disclosed.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee Our response to the risk Supplier arrangement amounts are appropriately recognised in the income The audit of Sainsburys Bank was completed by a component auditor from statement and balance sheet.
We agreed an audit strategy with the component auditor in advance of their testing and we reviewed the results of their work.
The primary team performed the specific scope audit of Argos Financial Services.
The audit strategy for both Sainsburys Bank and Argos Financial Services included the following: The loan impairment methodology was reviewed to confirm it was consistent with both the IFRS requirements and that previously applied.
The completeness and accuracy of the data from underlying systems that were used in the impairment models were tested.
Key assumptions including the probability of default and the size of the loss if default occurred were assessed against internal and external evidence.
The key assumptions within the models were compared to knowledge of assumptions used in the banking sector and also with internal historical trends, concluding that, based on the evidence obtained, managements conclusions were supportable.
Changes to the modelling assumptions were assessed to confirm these were appropriate and in line with accounting standards.
The accuracy of prior year impairment reserves was considered to assess the quality of managements estimation process.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee The provision for impairment of Financial Services receivables due from customers is appropriately recognised.
Financial Statements 103 Risk The scope of our audit HRG acquisition purchase price allocation Tailoring the scope Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 68 : Accounting policies Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation page 169 : and note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 169 of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the The Group acquired Home Retail Group plc during the year.
The provisional consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the business combination fair values are outlined in note 31 to the financial organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes statements.
in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
We focused our risk on the areas where management applies judgement in the accounting and valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities, for In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial example in calculation of the Argos brand.
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts of the components of the Group in the Group financial Our response to the risk statements, we selected the head office company, J Sainsbury plc, Our audit of the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities was Sainsburys and Argos trading entities and Sainsburys Bank components subject to full scope audit procedures by the primary team.
to perform full scope procedures.
These represent the principal business We walked through the controls in place within the purchase price units within the Group based on their size and risk characteristics.
accounting process and understood managements process to be in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
For other entities including Argos Financial Services, the property companies, Argos Asia, joint ventures and insurance components we performed audit We corroborated managements assumptions by comparing to relevant procedures on specific accounts which we considered had the potential for available information assisted by our business valuation specialists.
the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements In particular, we challenged the discount rate and the useful economic either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
We tested the prospective financial information utilised in the calculation The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of of the valuations based on the viewpoint of a market participant as all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We evaluated the adequacy of the business combination disclosures to Of the remaining balances, none are individually greater than 5 per cent of the requirements in IFRS 3. the Groups profit before tax excluding items noted below.
For these accounts, What we concluded to the Audit Committee we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of The provisional purchase price allocation is appropriately recognised.
consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Risk Involvement with component teams The IT environment In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the The IT systems across the Group are complex and there are varying levels type of work needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, of integration between them.
The systems are vital to the ongoing operations as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from of the business and to the integrity of the financial reporting process.
other EY network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the full scope components, audit procedures were performed on the head office company, For Sainsburys Bank the key system relating to the customer loan receivable J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys and Argos trading entities and consolidation of impairment, as described above, is provided by an external party.
the Group by the primary team.
The work at the specific scope locations Our response to the risk was performed by EY components in Hong Kong, the Isle of Man and the We held discussions with management to understand the IT environment primary team.
and walked through the key financial processes to understand where IT For the Sainsburys Bank full scope component, where the work was systems were integral to the Groups controls over financial reporting.
performed by auditors from another audit firm, we instructed the component From this we identified which IT systems to include in the scope for our auditor to perform specified procedures in response to our risk assessment.
During the current periods audit cycle, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited We assessed the IT general controls environment for the key systems Sainsburys Bank and held discussions with management.
The team impacting the accurate recording of transactions and the presentation discussed the audit approach with the component team and significant of the financial statements.
issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers on risk We designed our IT audit procedures to assess the IT environment, areas.
The closing discussion was attended by the primary team.
This, including an assessment of controls over changes made to the system together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us and controls over appropriate access to the systems.
appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Where we found that adequate IT general controls were not in place, we performed additional substantive testing to mitigate the risk of Our application of materiality material misstatement.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in Sainsburys Banks auditors received a report from the auditors on the forming our audit opinion.
general control environment of the outsourced systems and followed up on matters arising, performing further procedures as necessary.
We discussed the remediation work performed by Sainsburys Banks auditors and reviewed their work.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee We have not identified any misstatements in the financial statements due to the limitations of the IT environment.
104 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys We determined materiality for the Group to be 34 million, which is 5.1 per circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately cent of profit before tax excluding the items described below.
We believe disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made that this materiality basis provides us with the best assessment of the by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
requirements of the users of the financial statements.
This is consistent with In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the the approach taken in the prior period.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Starting basis Profit before tax 503m by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Adjustments Net impairment and onerous contract charge 37m apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Argos transaction and integration costs 53m implications for our report.
Sainsburys Bank transition costs 60m Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Business rationalisation 72m As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out IT write-offs 57m on page 100, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Restructuring costs 33m responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements Materiality Profit before tax excluding adjustments 671m in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing Materiality 5.1% of materiality basis 34m UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those materiality.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
materiality was approximately 75 per cent 2015 16: 50 per cent of our planning materiality, namely 25 million 2015 16: 15 million.
The reason Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies for the change is that we have assessed the risk of material misstatement Act 2006 to be lower now this is no longer our first audit.
In our opinion: Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is of misstatement at that component.
In the current period, the range of consistent with the financial statements.
performance materiality allocated to components was 5 million to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in 19 million 2015 16: 3 million to 11 million.
accordance with applicable legal requirements: Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.7 million 2015 16: 1.5 million, which is set at 5 per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Financial Statements 105 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: We have no and Ireland exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or reporting report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, We have no Act 2006 we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules exceptions to the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 45, and longer-term viability, set out on page 45: review report.
and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have and Ireland nothing the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reporting material to facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: add or to draw the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: attention to.
the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Nigel Jones Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 2 May 2017 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
