Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Opinion on financial statements ofWhitbread plc Summary of our audit approach In our opinion: the financial statements give a true Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: andfair view of the state of the Groups revenue recognition: and of the parent Companys affairs asat 2 March 2017 and of theGroups valuation of the defined benefit obligation: and profit for the year thenended: classification and presentation of the Group financial statements have non-underlying items.
been properly prepared in accordance Within this report, any new risks are identified with with International Financial Reporting and any risks which are the same as the prior year Standards IFRS as adopted by areidentified with.
theEuropeanUnion: the parent Company financial Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year statements have been properly was26.0m which was determined on the basis prepared in accordance with United of 5% of profit before tax.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice involving FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on allsignificant trading entities at both Premier Inn the financial statements have been & Restaurants and Costa, and the Group head office.
prepared in accordance with the Theselocations represent the principal business units requirements of the Companies andaccount for 99% of the Groups revenue, 101% of Act2006 and, as regards the Group the Groups profit before tax and 97% of the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of net assets.
The financial statements that we Significant In the current year, we have included a risk surrounding haveaudited comprise: changes in the classification and presentation of non-underlying the Consolidated income statement: our approach items due to an increased number of adjusting items and the judgement and complexity in accounting for the Consolidated statement the restructuring, sale and leaseback transactions ofcomprehensive income: and the costs incurred in exiting the Premier Inn the Consolidated and parent operations in South East Asia and India.
Company statements ofchanges The risk of management override of controls has inequity: beenremoved in the current period as this had a the Consolidated and parent lowereffecton the allocation of resources in the Company balance sheets: second yearof our audit.
the Consolidated cash flow statement:and We are required to state whether we the directors explanation on page 58 the related notes 1 to 30 of the have anything material to add or draw as to how they have assessed the Consolidated financial statements and attention to in relation to: prospects of the Group, over what notes 1 to 10 of the parent Company period they have done so and why financial statements, including the directors' confirmation on page58 they consider that period to be theAccounting Policies.
that they have carried out a robust appropriate, and their statement as The financial reporting framework that assessment of the principal risks towhether they have a reasonable has been applied in their preparation is facing the Group, including those expectation that the Group will be applicable law and IFRS as adopted by thatwould threaten its business able to continue in operation and the European Union and, as regards the model, future performance, solvency meet its liabilities as they fall due Parent Company financial statements, or liquidity: overthe period of their assessment, asapplied in accordance with the the disclosures on pages 58 to 61 that including any related disclosures provisions of the Companies Act 2006. describe those risks and explain how drawing attention to any necessary they are being managed or mitigated: qualifications or assumptions.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks the directors statement within the We confirm that we have nothing thatwould threaten the solvency directors report on page 102 about material to add or draw attention orliquidity of the Group whether they considered it appropriate toinrespect of these matters.
As required by the Listing Rules we to adopt the going concern basis have reviewed the directors statement We agreed with the directors ofaccounting in preparing them and regarding the appropriateness of the adoption of the going concern basis their identification of any material going concern basis of accounting ofaccounting and we did not identify uncertainties to the Groups ability contained within the directors report on any such material uncertainties.
tocontinue to do so over a period page 102 and the directors statement However, because not all future ofat least twelve months from the on the longer-term viability of the Group eventsor conditions can be predicted, date of approval of the financial contained within the strategic report thisstatement is not a guarantee statements: and onpage 58. astothe Groups ability to continue asagoing concern.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 104 Governance Independence Our assessment of risks The risk of management override We are required to comply with the  ofcontrols has been removed in the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical The assessed risks of material current period as this had a lower Standards for Auditors and confirm misstatement described below are those effecton the allocation of resource thatwe are independent of the Group that had the greatest effect on our audit inthe second year of our audit.
and we have fulfilled our other ethical strategy, the allocation of resources in responsibilities in accordance with the audit and directing theefforts of the those standards.
We confirm that we are independent In the current year, we have included of the Group and we have fulfilled arisk surrounding the presentation ourother ethical responsibilities in andclassification of non-underlying accordance with those standards.
We itemsdue to the judgement and also confirm we have not providedany complexity in accounting for certain of the prohibited non-audit services oftheseitems.
Revenue recognition Risk Revenue As described in the Accounting policies and Revenue disclosures in notes 2 and 3 to the recognition financialstatements, the Group generates revenues from three revenue streams, totalling 3,106.0m in the current year 2015 16: 2,921.8m.
The main revenue streams comprise a high volume of low level transactions from accommodation saleofservices, restaurant and food andbeverage sales sale of goods.
There are manual adjustments made to revenue, outside of core transactional processes, for example inrespect of reclassifications, other income streams, loyalty schemes and franchise income, which represent the key areas offocus for the audit due to their significance and certainestimates required in accounting for these items, e. g. redemption rates within loyalty schemes and deferred revenues for franchisees.
How the scope We have performed the following procedures to addressthis audit risk: ofour audit profiled the manual journal entries posted to revenue, assessed the impact of these on revenue responded to and tested a sample of these journal entries by verifying to supporting documentation to confirm therisk the entry was valid andappropriate: for loyalty schemes, tested the redemption ratecalculation, agreed the number of loyalty points outstanding to third party evidence and re-performed the liability calculation: and for franchise income, recalculated the deferred revenue with reference to agreements withfranchisees.
We also performed the following procedures to test therevenue balance: controls testing: tested the controls over revenue including those in the IT systems that supporttherecording of revenue: analytical reviews: performed substantive analytical procedures on the major revenue streamswith reference to store and hotel and restaurant data: and tests of detail: utilised analytical software to perform substantive tests of detail for a sample ofthe revenue balance by reconciling source data for each sample to the general ledger andcash receipts.
Key observations Following our audit procedures we found that revenuehad been recorded appropriately.
Valuation of the defined benefit obligation Risk description As described in the Audit Committee report on page 73, the Accounting Policies note 2 and theRetirement Benefits note note 29, the Group has a defined benefit pension scheme, which isclosed to new members and to future accrual.
The pension valuation is dependent on market conditions and key assumptions made, in particular relating to investment markets, discount rate, inflation expectations and life expectancy assumptions.
The setting of these assumptions is complex and requires the exercise of significant management judgement with the support of third party actuaries.
As such, it continues to represent a key audit risk.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 105 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Valuation of the defined benefit obligation How the scope To address this audit risk, we have performed the following procedures: ofour audit Actuarial assumptions: engaged our internal pension specialists to review the key assumptions responded to used, and considered the methodology utilised to derive these assumptions.
Futhermore, therisk wehave benchmarked these assumptions against external market data to assess their appropriateness in calculating the scheme assets and liabilities: and Reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements, considering the IAS 19 report prepared bythe actuary.
Key observations From the work completed, we are satisfied that the methodology and assumptions applied inrelation to determining the pension valuation are appropriate.
Classification and presentation of non-underlying items Risk description As described in the Audit Committee report on page 73 and the Accounting Policies note 2, the recognition and presentation of income and costs within adjusted performance measures APMs to derive Underlying profit before tax under IFRS, is judgemental, with IFRS only requiring the separate presentation of material items.
Judgement is exercised by management indetermining the classification of items as non-underlying.
In addition, the accounting for certain of these items is more complex this year.
As such, it has been recognised as a key area of audit focus.
In the current year, adjustments totalling 49.8m 2015 16: 58.6m have been made to statutory profitbefore tax to derive underlying profit before tax of 565.2m 2015 16: 546.3m.
The definition of underlying is described in the Accounting Policies Note 2 and the reconciliation between statutory profit before tax and underlying profit before tax is included in note 6 to the financial statements.
The most significant items classified as non-underlying in 2016 17 are: Premier Inn India and South East Asia business exit of 30.0m: UK Restructuring costs of 21.6m: Costa international restructuring of 14.5m: Impairment of property, plant and equipment net of reversals of 7.5m: and Property, plant and equipment disposals and property reversions resulting in a gain of 19.3m.
How the scope We have performed the following procedures to address this audit risk: ofour audit Classification as non-underlying: evaluated the appropriateness of the inclusion of items, responded to bothindividually and in aggregate, within non-underlying profits, including assessing the therisk consistency of items included year on year and compliance with the accounting policies.
Inaddition, we also assessed one-off items identified through the course of the audit, butwhichhad been recognised within underlying profit before tax: and For each of the items identified above: obtained and assessed managements accounting papers and considered the judgements and assumptions used in these.
For each of these, agreed on a sample basis to supporting evidence where possible, recalculated theprovisions in place where relevant and understood and challenged the key assumptions applied by management through benchmarking, re-calculation and agreement to third partysupport e. g. discount rate used within the impairment model : and For the disclosures, reviewed the consistency of the presentation of non-underlying measuresthroughout the Annual Report and the information included in note 6 to the financialstatements.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the items recognised within non-underlying havebeen appropriately accounted for and that their presentation is in line with the definition included within the accounting policies and consistent with prior year.
These matters were addressed inthecontext of our audit of the financialstatements as a whole, andinforming our opinion thereon, andwedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 106 Governance Our application of materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee At the parent entity level we also tested We define materiality as the magnitude that we would report to the Committee the consolidation process and carried of misstatement in the financial all audit differences in excess of 1.3m out analytical procedures to confirm statements that makes it probable 2016: 0.5m, as well as differences our conclusion that there were no that the economic decisions of a below that threshold that, in our view, significant risks of material misstatement reasonably knowledgeable person warranted reporting on qualitative of the aggregated financial information would be changed or influenced.
We also report to the Audit of the remaining components not Weuse materiality both in planning Committee on disclosure matters that subject to audit or audit of specified thescope of our audit work and in we identified when assessing the overall account balances.
evaluating the results of our work.
presentation of the financial statements.
The Group audit team followed a Based on our professional judgement, An overview of the scope of our audit programme of planned visits that has wedetermined materiality for the Our Group audit was scoped by been designed so that a senior member financial statements as a whole obtaining an understanding of the of the audit team visits each of the asfollows: Group and its environment, including locations where the Group audit scope Group-wide controls and assessing was focused at least once every two therisks of material misstatement years and the most significant of them Group 26.0m attheGroup level.
In the current materiality 2016:25.0m year, we performed testing in the UK Based on that assessment, we focused for Premier Inn UK, Costa UK and the our Group audit scope primarily on the Basis for 5% of profit before Group audit and visited Costa Poland.
audit work at four components: Premier determining tax of 515.4m In years where we do not visit a Inn & Restaurants UK, Costa UK, Costa materiality 2016:487.7m was significant component, we will include Poland and Costa Shanghai.
These were used to determine the component audit team in our team subject to a full audit where the extent of our materiality in the briefing, discuss their risk assessment, our testing was based on ourassessment current year.
This is attend their closing meeting and review of the risks of material misstatement consistent with the documentation of the findings from and of the materiality ofthe Groups prior year.
These locations represent the principal business Profit Rationale In determining units and together account for 99% of before Net forthe ourfinal materiality Revenue tax assets the Groups revenue, 101% of the Groups m m m benchmark based on our profit before tax and 97% of the Groups applied professional Full scope net assets.
They were also selected 3,076.6 522.3 2,441.0 judgement, we have audit toprovide an appropriate basis for considered profit undertaking audit work toaddress Analytical before tax tobe the 29.4 6.9 83.8 therisk of material misstatement procedures most appropriate identified above.
Total 3,106.0 515.4 2,524.8 measure for business performance.
The materiality applied also represents 5%ofprofit before tax, less than 1% ofrevenue and1% ofequity.
Group materiality m Component materiality range m to m Audit Committee reporting threshold m PBT Group Materiality Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 107 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Opinion on other matters prescribed Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the by the Companies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are companys members, as a body, in In our opinion, based on the work alsorequired to review part of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 undertaken in the course of the audit: Corporate Governance Statement ofthe Companies Act 2006.
Our audit relating to the companys compliance work has been undertaken so that we the part of the directors remuneration with certain provisions of the UK might state to the Companys members report to be audited has been properly Corporate Governance Code.
those matters we are required to state prepared in accordance with the to them in an auditors report and for Companies Act2006: We have nothing to report arising from no other purpose.
To the fullest extent our review.
the information given in the strategic permitted by law, we do not accept or report and the directors report forthe assume responsibility to anyone other Our duty to read other information financial year for which the financial than the Company and the Companys inthe Annual Report statements are prepared isconsistent members as a body, for our audit work, Under International Standards on with the financial statements: and for this report, or for the opinions we Auditing UK and Ireland, we are have formed.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, the strategic report and the directors information in the annual report is: report have been prepared in Scope of the audit of the accordance with applicable financialstatements materially inconsistent with the legalrequirements.
An audit involves obtaining evidence information in the audited financial about the amounts and disclosures statements: or In the light of the knowledge and inthe financial statements sufficient understanding of the Group and its apparently materially incorrect based togive reasonable assurance that environment obtained in the course of on, or materially inconsistent with, our thefinancial statements are free from the audit, we have not identified any knowledge of the Group acquired in material misstatement, whether caused material misstatements in the strategic the course of performing our audit: or by fraud or error.
This includes an report and the directors report.
assessment of: whether the accounting Matters on which we are required policies are appropriate to the Groups In particular, we are required to consider toreport by exception and the parent Companys circumstances whether we have identified any Adequacy of explanations received and have been consistently applied and inconsistencies between our knowledge and accounting records adequately disclosed: the reasonableness acquired during the audit and the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are of significant accounting estimates directors statement that they consider required to report to you if, in our opinion: made by the directors: and the overall the annual report is fair, balanced and presentation of the financial statements.
understandable and whether the Annual we have not received all the In addition, we read all the financial and Report appropriately discloses those information and explanations we non-financial information in the annual matters that we communicated to the require for our audit: or report to identify material inconsistencies Audit Committee which we consider adequate accounting records havenot with the audited financial statements should have been disclosed.
been kept by the parent Company, or and to identify any information that is returns adequate for ouraudit have apparently materially incorrect based We confirm that we have not identified not been received from branches not on, or materially inconsistent with, any such inconsistencies ormisleading visited by us: or theknowledge acquired by us in the statements.
course of performing the audit.
If we the parent Company financial Respective responsibilities ofdirectors become aware of any apparent material statements are not in agreement with and auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we the accounting records and returns.
As explained more fully in the directors consider the implications for our report.
responsibilities statement, the directors We have nothing to report in respect are responsible for the preparation of of these matters.
the financial statements and for being Directors remuneration satisfied that they give a true and fair Under the Companies Act 2006 we view.
Our responsibility is to audit and arealso required to report if in our express an opinion on the financial Nicola Mitchell FCA opinion certain disclosures of directors statements in accordance with applicable Senior statutory auditor remuneration have not been made or law and International Standards on for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the part of the directors remuneration Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also Chartered Accountants report to be audited is not in agreement comply with International Standard and Statutory Auditor with the accounting records and returns.
onQuality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
London Our audit methodology and tools aim We have nothing to report arising from 24 April 2017 to ensure that our quality control these matters.
procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls andsystems include our dedicated professional standards review team andindependent partner reviews.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 108
