Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 January 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Saga plc for the year ended 31 January 2017, which comprise: Group financial statements Company financial statements the consolidated income statement the company balance sheet the consolidated statement of comprehensive income the company statement of changes in equity the consolidated statement of financial position the related notes 1 to 5 to the company financial statements the consolidated statement of changes in equity the consolidated statement of cash flows the related notes 1 to 34 to the consolidated financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law andInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Valuation of insurance contract liabilities misstatement Valuation of goodwill Revenue recognition Audit scope We have performed an audit of the complete financial information of 10 components 2016: 7components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 1 component 2016: 4components.
The divisions and entities where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 96% 2016: 89% of the Groups Profit before tax, 92% 2016: 93% of the Groups revenue and 98% 2016: 96% ofthe Groups Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 9.7m 2016: 9.0m which represents approximately 5% of Profit before tax from continuing operations.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 95 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, which are the same risks as those included in our prior year opinion, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 423.2m, 2016: 460.0m Key observations communicated to Risk Our responses to the risks theAuditCommittee Valuation of insurance contract We understood, assessed and tested the design In the prior period we liabilities 423.2m, 2016: 460.0m and operational effectiveness of key controls over reported that the Saga the process applied by Management in establishing best estimate was based Refer to the Audit Committee Report insurance contract liabilities, including controls over on assumptions which page58, accounting policy note 2.3 q the completeness and accuracy of data used by were individually anddisclosure note 24. theinternal actuary toproject the claims liabilities, reasonable but contained and controls over changes in assumptions degrees of caution when For insurance contracts, estimates have to andmethodology.
compared to our own be made both for the expected ultimate cost assumptions.
Revisions to of claims notified by the reporting date and Supported by our actuarial specialists, we: assumptions by for the expected ultimate cost of claims management during the incurred but not yet reported at the reporting reconciled the claims data supporting the actuarial current period have date IBNR.
It can take a significant period of projections to source systems and, on a sample resulted in the Saga best time before the ultimate claims cost can be basis, verified the accurate recording of data estimate now being more established with certainty.
Management against the underlying policy and claims closely aligned to our own makes judgements in respect of the trends documentation: best estimate projections.
in the frequency and severity of bodily injury obtained an understanding of the methodology and However, we consider claims, the propensity for large claims to key assumptions applied by Management: that the overall insurance settle as Periodical Payment Orders PPOs, challenged the methodology and key assumptions contract liabilities the Ogden discount rate, being the discount against our knowledge of the sector and the including the margin are rate used by the Courts to determine the Groups own claims experience: towards the more present value of personal injury claims: and performed independent actuarial projections on the conservative end ofthe other regulatory developments.
motor classes, which account for 95% of the net reasonable range.
insurance contract liabilities, to determine our own On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor best estimate for the projected liabilities and a We are satisfied that the announced a change in the Ogden discount reasonable range within which such an estimate NewRe quota share rate to -0.75%: we would expect this to be may fall given the inherent uncertainty involved in contract is appropriately reflected in the measurement of insurance the estimation: accounted for and contract liabilities.
assessed the level of reserve margin compared to disclosed in the market practice and prior periods, in the context of consolidated financial Management sets insurance contract areas of uncertainty for which the margin is held: statements.
liabilities at a level that includes a margin validated that the change in Ogden rate had been over the actuarial best estimate to take We consider that the appropriately reflected in the insurance contract account of uncertainty that may impact the liabilities: and recorded insurance value of the liabilities ultimately settled.
contract liabilities as at 31 tested on a sample basis that the reinsurance recoveries were recorded in line with the January 2017, including As a result of the inherent uncertainty in the margin and net of underlying reinsurance contracts.
setting the insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance, are within a the susceptibility to management bias, we We reviewed the reinsurance agreement with reasonable range.
consider the valuation of the insurance NewRe to understand the terms of the contract and contract liabilities to be a significant risk.
ensure the transaction is appropriately accounted for in accordance with the contractual agreement.
As a result of the timing of the Ogden announcement, this risk has increased compared to the prior year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 96 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key observations communicated to Risk Our responses to the risks theAuditCommittee Valuation of insurance contract This included considering whether the contract liabilities 423.2m, 2016: 460.0m included risk transfer to qualify as an insurance continued contract under IFRS 4, and validating, through re-performance, the application of the quota share Note 18 d Insurance risk provides further contract to the applicable business and ensuring detail of these uncertainties and the process that the financial statements reflect the underlying for establishing insurance contractliabilities.
With effect from 1 February 2016, theGroup entered into a quota share arrangement with New Reinsurance Company Limited NewRe ceding 75% ofthe risk of motor policies on aloss occurring basis.
Key accounting considerations relate to whether the contract satisfies the requirements of IFRS 4 to be accounted for as an insurance contract, the presentation and related disclosures in respect of the contract in the financial statements, and assumptions relating to the timing of recognition of profit commission.
Valuation of goodwill 1,485m, Managements impairment assessment of the We have concluded that 2016:1,485m recorded goodwill value was performed as at the recoverable amount 30 November 2016.
We tested the design and of goodwill exceeds its Refer to the Audit Committee Report operating effectiveness of the controls in operation carrying amount, with page58, accounting policy 2.3 g and over the goodwill impairment assessment.
remaining when key We have also evaluated and challenged this assumptions are stressed The goodwill recorded as at 31 January assessment, specifically we: for what we consider to 2017 is1,485.0m and is tested for be cautious assumptions.
impairment by Management by considering validated that the goodwill is appropriately the recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to the operating segments: We consider that: asdescribed in note15.
validated that the cash flows underpinning the calculation were consistent with the five year the allocation of In determining the recoverable amount, strategic plan approved by the Board: goodwill to operating judgement is applied by Management challenged the reasonableness of growth segments is appropriate inderiving: forecasts during the five year plan period, having and in line with the regard to back testing performed by Management requirements of IAS 36: the forecast cash flows expected to arise to support the robustness of the forecast process: the forecasts used are a from the approved five year plan and the compared the long-term growth rates to reasonable basis upon underlying assumptions in setting the five economic and industry forecasts: which to perform the year plan: compared the discount rate to the Groups pre-tax impairment review: and the pre-tax discount rates that reflect the weighted average cost of capital and to discount the assumptions for market assessment of the time value of rates used by similar UK companies that operate thepre-tax discount money and the risks specific to the cash in the financial services and travel industries: and rate and long-term flowestimates: and assessed the adequacy of sensitivity analysis growth applied by the growth rate used to extrapolate cash performed by Management, stressing each of the management are within flow projections beyond the five year above assumptions in isolation and in combination an acceptable range, planperiod.
to best reflect what we considered to be reasonably and are consistent with foreseeable changes in the key assumptions.
economic and industry The level of risk has remained consistent forecasts, and those with the prior year.
used by comparator insurance and travel companies.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 97 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued Key observations communicated to Risk Our responses to the risks theAuditCommittee Revenue recognition 871.3m, We considered the accounting policies for the There have been no material changes to 2016: 963.2m revenue streams in the Insurance and Travel segments, having regard to the requirements of therevenue recognition Refer to accounting policy 2.3 a and policies applied by applicable revenue recognition standards, being IAS disclosure note 3.
18 Revenue and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
management during the period, and the source ISAs UK & Ireland presume there may be We tested the design and operating effectiveness of and contribution of pressures or incentives on Management to the controls in operation over the Insurance and eachrevenue stream commit fraudulent financial reporting through Travel revenue recognition and recording processes.
isconsistent with inappropriate revenue recognitions.
a risk of management override on revenue For the Insurance segment we: recognition in response to performance We are satisfied that re-performed earnings calculations for insurance targets.
theconsolidation contracts underwritten by the Group, to validate adjustments to align the The diverse nature of the Groups revenue that insurance revenues were being recognised revenue recognition recognition policies and the materiality of over the policy term: policies across the group thebalances concerned are such that we inspected a sample of contracts not underwritten are appropriate.
consider revenue recognition to represent by the Group to validate whether any contractual asignificant risk.
obligations to provide post-placement services We concluded that were in place: revenue has been We have assessed the revenue streams in performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had recognised in the year the Insurance and Travel segments as being been recorded in the correct period: incompliance with most susceptible to manipulation through reviewed the consolidation adjustments posted to theGroups revenue the application of inappropriate revenue eliminate the revenue transactions between the recognition policies and recognition policies: Group intermediary and Group underwriter: relevant accounting challenged and corroborated reasons for standards.
The Insurance segment revenue consists variances from prior periods based on analytical primarily of revenue earned by the procedures performed: and insurance intermediary and the insurance tested a sample of manual journals for any underwriter.
The intermediary revenue indication of inappropriate revenue recognition.
from both external underwriters and the Group underwriter is recognised upon For the Travel segment we: commencement of the policy period of risk, whereas the Group underwriter performed detailed testing of a sample of recognises revenue on an earned basis transactions to confirm that the tour operator over the term of the policy.
For policies revenues and cruise holiday revenues were being underwritten by the Group underwriter recognised in line with the contract terms and and placed via the Group intermediary, applicable accounting policy: consolidation adjustments are processed performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had to ensure that the overall revenue been recorded in the correct period: recorded in respect of risks underwritten challenged and corroborated reasons for by the Group is recognised in accordance variances from prior periods based on analytical with the Group policy.
procedures performed: and tested a sample of manual journals for any In the Travel segment, revenue from tour indication of inappropriate revenue recognition.
operations is recognised on the passengers date of departure and for cruise holidays, where the Group operates the cruise ship, revenue is recognised on a per diem basis over the duration of the cruise.
There is a risk that revenue recognition is accelerated and recognised when holidays are booked or cash in respect of those bookings is received.
The level of risk has remained consistent with the prior year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 98 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile and changes in the business environment in assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected components covering entities within the United Kingdom and Gibraltar, which represent the principal trading entities within the Group.
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work we performed: Jan-17 Jan-16 Profit Total Profit Total No.
Revenue before Tax Assets No.
2 We audited specific accounts within these components.
3 We performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year The changes in the number of full scope and specific scope entities primarily reflect revisions to the internal reporting and consolidation structure within Saga.
Involvement with component teams Other than the independent actuarial projections on the motor classes performed by our UK actuarial specialists, full scope audit procedures related to the underwriting component were performed by EY Gibraltar operating under our instruction.
We determined the appropriate level of our involvement to enable us to be satisfied that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis forour opinion on the Group as a whole.
We reviewed the component team working papers and participated in their planning andexecution of the audit in respect of the risks identified above.
Audit procedures relating to all remaining components were performed directly by the primary audit team.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements onour audit and in forming our opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.7m 2016: 9.0m, which is approximately 5% of the Groups Profit before tax from continuing operations.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 99 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and reflecting the fact that the Group is recently listed, our judgement is that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 4.9m 2016: 4.5m.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts isundertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement atthat component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.9m to 2.5m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.49m 2016:0.45m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrantedreporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in theAnnual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in thecourse of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statements set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit andexpress an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 100 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland in the annual report is: exceptions toreport.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained We have no 2006 reporting in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic exceptions Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review exceptions the directors statement in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, set out requirements toreport.
on page 42: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have Ireland reporting orto draw attention to in relation to: nothing material the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust to add or assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten to draw its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: attention to.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
John Headley Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London, 28 March 2017 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Saga plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 101
