Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF KINGFISHER PLC GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE In our opinion: SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2017 and of the statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of Groups profit for the year then ended: accounting contained within note 2 to the Group financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as contained within the strategic report on page 46. adopted by the European Union: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in draw attention to in relation to: accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101: Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Directors confirmation on page 38 that they have carried out a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group those that would threaten its business model, future performance, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 38 to 45 that describe those risks and explain The financial statements that we have audited comprise the consolidated how they are being managed or mitigated: income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about income, the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated cash whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any flow statement and the related notes 1 to 37 for the Group and 1 to 15 for the Company financial statements.
material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the statements: or preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS the Directors explanation on page 46 as to how they have assessed as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 101: Reduced Disclosure Framework.
over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Key risks We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption inventory valuation and provisions: of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any recognition of supplier rebates: such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or store impairment and lease based provisioning: conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the impairment of goodwill: Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
taxation: and INDEPENDENCE classification and presentation of exceptional and We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical adjusted items.
Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group Within this report, any new risks are identified with and that we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance and any risks which are the same as the prior year are with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group identified with.
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
37 million which was determined on the basis of profit before tax and exceptional items.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on all The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those significant trading entities and the Group head office.
that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of These locations represent the principal business units resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
and account for 99% of the Groups revenue, 97% of The Audit Committee has requested that, while not required under the Groups profit before tax after taking into account International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our the allocation of central sourcing costs, and 95% of the report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks Groups net assets.
Significant Following the commencement of the ONE Kingfisher changes in strategy, and the Groups new underlying metrics, we have included a new key risk around classification and our approach presentation of exceptional and adjusted items.
com 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC CONTINUED Inventory valuation and provisions Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As at 31 January 2017, the value of inventory held by the Group Our audit focused on whether the valuation of year-end inventory was was 2,173 million as disclosed in note 18 to the financial in line with IAS 2.
This included challenging judgements taken regarding statements.
obsolescence and net realisable value provisions.
Assessing the valuation of inventory is an area of significant We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements judgement.
There is significant management judgement in assumptions applied in calculating the value of inventory provisions by: estimating the eventual selling price of items held, as well as critically assessing the Groups inventory provisioning policy, with specific assessing which items may be slow-moving or obsolete.
consideration given to aged inventory: As detailed in the Strategic Report on page 18, Kingfisher has verifying the existence and condition of inventory by attending a sample started rationalising the number of stock keeping units SKUs of inventory counts throughout the year across all in scope components, within the business as part of their plans to unify their offer.
including those at 16 distribution centres and 57 retail stores: checking the value of a sample of inventory to confirm it is held at the This adds additional complexity to assessing the level of lower of cost and selling price, through comparison to vendor invoices and inventory which will become obsolete and the expected net current sales prices: and realisable value NRV of inventory which will be sold.
recomputing provisions recorded to verify that they are in line with Group The Groups principal accounting policy on inventory is on page policy and IAS 2.
This was done in conjunction with IT specialists for some 109 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for inventory is components where a manual recomputation was not possible.
Judgements relating to inventory and stock provisioning policy are a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 61.
Key observations The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we concur with the judgements around the level of provisions for inventory held.
Recognition of supplier rebates Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The Group receives significant amounts of supplier incentives, We tested that amounts recognised were accurate and recorded in the discounts, and rebates, and recognises these as a deduction in correct period based on the contractual performance obligations by cost of sales.
obtaining and reviewing a sample of contracts with suppliers to assess the conditions required for rebate income to be recognised and verified whether These agreements largely comprise of volume-based rebates or not these had been met.
based on percentage levels agreed for the calendar year, but also include arrangements with a greater degree of judgement We circularised a sample of suppliers to give assurance that the such as advertising and marketing support.
Given the materiality arrangements recorded were accurate and complete and, where of the volume-based rebates these have been the focus of outstanding balances were significant at the year end, to confirm the ourwork.
Where responses were not received, we completed alternative procedures such as obtaining rebate contracts, understanding Assessing the timing of recognition of the reduction in cost of the contractual terms and recomputing the rebate earned.
sales earned from suppliers, including adherence to contractual terms, is an area of complexity requiring both a detailed For volume-based agreements, we recalculated the rebates due based on understanding of the contractual arrangements themselves shipments in the year and contractual terms.
For other rebates, we also as well as complete and accurate source data to apply the focussed on the timing of recognition of the rebate income based on the arrangements to.
The majority of rebates agreements are subject to netting We recomputed the level of volume rebate earned but not recognised, in particular challenging the key assumption of stock turn in the volume rebate agreements with the supplier.
However, as detailed in note 19 to the financial statements, there are 287 million of rebate debtors in stock adjustment.
Our audit assessed the recoverability of rebate debtors by assessing the The Groups principal accounting policy for rebates is on page Groups right to receive the rebate.
Where there were netting agreements 107 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for rebates are on we agreed that there was a sufficient creditor against which to deduct page 112. the rebate due and reviewed post year end debit notes: where there was not a netting agreement we reviewed post year end cash receipts to give assurance that the rebate was recoverable.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we consider the disclosures given around supplier rebates to provide a reasonable understanding of the types of rebate income received and the impact on the Groups balance sheet as at 31 January 2017.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 94 Accounts Store impairment and lease based provisioning Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The Group operates nearly 1,200 stores across 10 countries Store impairment giving rise to a diverse leasehold and freehold property portfolio.
For freehold properties and store assets with indicators of impairment, we challenged the impairment models and calculations by: As at 31 January 2017 the value of property, plant and equipment held by the Group was 3,589 million, as disclosed in checking the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models: note 14 to the financial statements.
assessing the discount rates applied to the impairment reviews for each country and comparing the rates to our benchmarks of market data which There are several technically complex or judgemental aspects were assessed in conjunction with valuation specialists: ofstore impairment and store based provisioning across comparing forecast growth rates to economic data: the Group, which are set out below.
We note that cash flow forecasting, impairment modelling and property values are all considering the historical budgeting accuracy at a store level: inherently judgemental.
challenging key inputs into the value in use computation, namely forecast sales growth and margin by reviewing both past performance, our Store impairment understanding of the Groups strategic initiatives and the rationale for As detailed in note 14 to the financial statements, store future assumptions.
We challenged the level of past store performance impairments of 10 million have been recorded in the year.
to critically assess whether assumptions applied were appropriate at the Ajudgement arises in forming an assessment of carrying values store level: of freehold stores and store assets for potential impairment.
agreeing the vacant possession value of freehold property to third party The key assumptions applied by management in their store valuation reports, challenging the inputs and valuation methodology impairment reviews are: applied: and verifying that freehold properties are held in line with IAS 36. country-specific discount rates: store costs, including rent, staff payroll and general operating Lease based provisioning costs: and We performed procedures to identify leases which could be considered forecast contribution growth.
onerous for example, we reviewed the properties currently under lease, and identified those which may be vacant or underutilised, or where As detailed in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group uses properties are sublet whether the estimated rental income leads to an vacant possession valuations to approximate fair value less costs onerous contract.
to sell when considering impairment.
Lease based provisioning As detailed in note 26 to the financial statements, the Group holds provisions relating to onerous lease obligations following the announcement of the closure of stores in B&Q.
As described on page 20 of the Strategic Review, the Group outsourced some lease exits to a third party via a lease liability transaction, and provisions for these leases are included in the total provision.
The key assumptions applied by management in estimating this provision relate to the length of void periods and likelihood and level of sub-tenancy income.
The Groups principal accounting policy on property, plant and equipment is on page 108 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for impairment is on page 111.
Key observations We concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment models were within an acceptable range, and that the overall level of impairment recognised was reasonable.
com 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC CONTINUED Impairment of goodwill Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As at 31 January 2017, the value of goodwill held by In order to address this key audit risk we audited the assumptions used in the Group was 2,399 million, as disclosed in note 12 to the the impairment model for goodwill.
Our work included: financial statements.
considering the projected future cash flows, understanding variances The goodwill within the Group arose via business combinations.
between the forecast and actual results for the year ended 31 January 2017 and comparing the forecast performance to the remaining four Determining the appropriate carrying value of goodwill requires years of the Groups five year plan and supporting workings: management to make significant estimates including the assessing whether managements cash flow forecasts only include cash operating cash flow projections, discount rates and long term flows as allowed by IAS 36: growth rates applied.
comparing the long-term growth rates for each cash generating unit to The goodwill attributable to cash generating units CGUs is economic forecasts: reviewed for impairment using a value in use model, as described working with our internal valuation specialists, who assisted in computing in note 12 to the financial statements.
an independent assessment of the discount rates used and assessing managements methodology used in calculating the discount rates applied As detailed on page 15 to the annual report, the Groups five year by benchmarking against those companies in the same or similar sectors: plan, of which the year ended 31 January 2017 was the first year, aims to deliver 500 million of sustainable profit uplift by the assessing the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied by management end of year five.
A risk arises that cash flow projections used to to the impairment testing model and whether the scenarios represented support the valuation of goodwill are not in compliance with IAS reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
This standard requires that future cash flows do not include sensitivities based on recent trading activity and our understanding of the inflows or outflows that a are expected to arise from a future future prospects to identify whether these scenarios could give rise to restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed or b are further impairment: improving or enhancing the assets performance.
considering CGU allocation in light of the Groups new strategy and concluded that there have not been any triggers which would require The Groups principal accounting policy on goodwill and areallocation of the CGUs: intangible assets is on page 108 and the sources of estimation checking the arithmetic accuracy of the impairment model: and uncertainty on impairment is on page 111. considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect of its The carrying value of goodwill is a significant issue considered by goodwill impairment testing and whether the disclosures about the the Audit Committee as discussed on page 61. sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and concluded that the assumptions used in the impairment model are within the acceptable range.
Based on sensitivity analysis performed using a reasonably possible change in assumptions, no impairment was identified.
Taxation Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We engaged tax specialists who considered the significant taxation Due to the estimation uncertainty in respect of settlements with exposures across the Group, and challenged the estimates and judgements tax authorities around the world, assessing the Groups exposure made by management when calculating the income tax payable in each to significant tax risks and the appropriate level of provision to territory and the associated provisions held.
In assessing the provisions we have considered the tax environment in the The Groups principal accounting policy on taxation is on page significant territories in which the Group operates, the outcome of past 109 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for taxation is on settlements and the status of tax audits.
The tax specialists reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in The significant judgement and estimates relating to corporate significant locations, as well as reviewing the opinions or other support and business taxes is a significant issue considered by the Audit received from external counsel and other advisers where management has Committee as discussed on page 61. relied on them to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we identified no material exceptions to the provisions recorded.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 96 Accounts Classification and presentation of exceptional and adjusted items Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As explained on page 31, the Group is separately reporting We evaluated the design and tested the implementation of controls around transformation costs from the year ended 31 January 2017 classification of transformation costs and exceptional items.
which represent the additional costs of the ONE Kingfisher We evaluated the appropriateness of the inclusion of items, both individually transformation programme.
The Group has included underlying and in aggregate, within transformation costs and exceptional items.
pre-tax profit as a new profit measure.
We also considered consistency with the Groups definition of The presentation and consistency of costs and income within transformation costs and exceptional items and latest guidance from transformation costs and exceptional items is a key determinant the Financial Reporting Council.
For exceptional items, we reviewed in the assessment of the quality of the Groups underlying managements application of the policy on exceptional items for consistency earnings.
The presentation of income and costs within non-GAAP We also agreed these items to supporting documentation.
measures under IFRS is judgemental, with IFRS only requiring theseparate presentation of material items.
The exceptional We assessed all items, either highlighted by management or identified items are expected to be non-recurring and are disclosed through the course of our audit, which were regarded as one-off but separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence.
There included within underlying earnings to ensure that these are not material is a risk around whether the definition of an exceptional or either individually, or in the aggregate.
transformation cost is appropriate and is applied consistently We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements each year.
provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
The Group has established definitions of exceptional items and For all adjustments recorded in calculating underlying profits, we discussed transformation costs.
The Groups principal accounting policy on the appropriateness of the item with the Audit Committee and any use of non-GAAP measures is on page106 and the judgements disclosure considerations.
made in applying the accounting policy is on page 112.
For the year ended 31 January 2017, the Group incurred transformation costs of 44 million along with a net exceptional credit of 17 million.
Management judgement is required in determining whether an item meets the Groups definition of transformation costs or is exceptional and non-recurring.
The treatment and presentation of transformation costs and exceptional items is a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 61.
Key observations We are satisfied that the amounts classified as exceptional items and transformation costs, and the related disclosure of these items in the financial statements, are appropriate The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 61.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters www.
com 97 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily evaluating the results of our work.
on all significant trading entities and the Group head office, and including Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, Castorama Poland, financial statements as a whole as follows: Castorama Russia, Screwfix UK, Brico Dpt Spain, Brico Dpt Romania and the Kota joint venture.
These locations represent the Group materiality 37 million 2015 16: 34 million principal business units and account for 99% 2015 16: 99% of the Basis for determining 5% 2015 16: 5% of profit before taxation, Groups revenue, 97% 2015 16: 98% of the Groups profit before tax materiality before exceptional items as defined in note 2 after taking into account the allocation of central sourcing costs, and 95% to the Group financial statements: this is below 2015 16: 98% of the Groups net assets.
The entities which are out of 1% 2015 16: below 1% of equity.
our scope are primarily individually insignificant cost entities and other Rationale for the This basis provides a consistent year-on-year smaller operations.
benchmark applied approach excluding one-off gains and losses, and is considered to be a relevant performance The locations in scope were selected to provide an appropriate basis for measure to the Groups stakeholders.
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.5 million than Group materiality and ranged from 2.4 million to 17.5 million 2015 16: 0.7 million, as well as differences below that threshold 2015 16: 1.4 million to 17.5 million.
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit ofspecified account balances.
HOW WE WORK CLOSELY WITH COMPONENT AUDITORS The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits locations considered the most significant each year.
For the remaining locations where Group audit work is performed, but no visit is carried profit before tax out, the Senior Statutory Auditor has discussed and challenged the key and exeptionals areas of judgement with the lead audit partner of the component in the 742 million current year and a senior member of the Group audit team has visited the location.
In the current year the Group audit team have made 17 visits to component sites and a senior member from the Group audit team hasvisited each component at least once.
profit before tax and exceptional items Group materiality We also held planning briefings, attended by the component auditors from each of the locations discussed above, at which we discussed Group materiality developments in the Group relevant to our audit, including risk 37 million assessment and audit procedures to respond to the risks identified.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE Component materiality range 2.4 million to 17.5 million COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Audit Committee reporting threshold 1.5 million the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 98 Accounts This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, our opinion: we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the we have not received all the information and explanations we require company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for our audit: or forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or Scope of the audit of the financial statements returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures not visited by us: or in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether accounting records and returns.
This includes an assessment of: whether the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Directors remuneration disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have withthe audited financial statements and to identify any information nothing to report arising from these matters.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Corporate Governance Statement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Richard Muschamp FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual London report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 21 March 2017 statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies ormisleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibility, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
