Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 29 January 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 29 January 2017: the Company balance sheet as at 29 January 2017: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: the Company statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Areas of focus Overall Group materiality: 16.85m Impairment of property.
which represents 5% of underlying Onerous lease provisions and onerous Materiality profit before tax.
Audit scope Commercial income and The Group engagement team conducted promotional funding.
all of our audit work in the UK other than Audit scope Impairment and capitalisation a PwC component audit team that of intangible assets.
undertook a full scope audit of a UK Manufacturing subsidiary.
Areas of focus Pension accounting.
50 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Value in use Impairment of property We have obtained the Groups approved budget upon which forecasts Refer to page 64 critical accounting judgements and estimates and note 3.3 underlying the value in use calculations are based.
Our audit procedures property, plant and equipment.
included an assessment of managements discounted cash flow models.
The Group has a large freehold store estate 5,908m at 29 January 2017.
Given the We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations derived from each challenging trading conditions in the UK grocery retail market in recent years and forecast model and assessed key inputs in the calculations, such as the discount the subsequent adverse impact on the market value of traditional supermarket rate of 9%, by reference to managements forecasts, industry reports and freehold stores, the possibility of impairment of these assets is an area of focus our valuation experts.
We focused on these key assumptions because small for management, as is the possibility that previously charged impairments may changes can have a material impact on the value in use assessment and any need reversing where store trading conditions have improved.
We found, based on our audit work, that the key We focused on this area because of the judgemental factors involved in testing assumptions used by management were supportable and appropriate in light for impairment and the significant carrying value of freehold property.
Management considers each store to be a cash generating unit CGU and has Fair value less costs of disposal calculated the recoverable amount of each CGU as the higher of value in use and Management has determined its own view of estimated rental values and yields fair value less costs of disposal.
for each store used in their calculation of market values.
Management derived these assumptions having considered available information such as industry Value in use data on market conditions, purchase offers recently received for properties and Value in use is based on discounted future cash flow forecasts, requiring information from an independent third party valuer.
We evaluated managements management to make judgements on certain key inputs including, for example, supporting information, and assessed this using our own internal experts, with a discount rates and long term growth rates.
particular focus on the assumptions and methodology used, obtaining third party Fair value less costs of disposal evidence and market data to corroborate the assumptions.
Fair value less costs of disposal is estimated by management based on their We also evaluated the competency, qualifications, experience and objectivity of knowledge of individual stores, likely demand from grocers or other retailers in the managements property valuation experts and noted no issues.
We determined event those stores were for sale and is further informed by a valuation performed that the valuations performed by management are reasonable.
The key judgements made by the Directors in this fair value calculation relate to the estimated rental values and the yields of the stores.
In addition, we evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 3.3 of the financial statements, including those regarding the key assumptions Management has calculated that an impairment charge of 147m is required as and sensitivities to changes in such assumptions by comparing the disclosures at 29 January 2017.
A release of impairment charged in previous years of 191m against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and found them to has also been calculated following an improvement in the performance of be consistent.
51 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Onerous lease provisions and onerous property contracts Onerous lease provisions Refer to page 64 critical accounting judgements and estimates and note 5.5 Having considered the possibility of impairment in the value of freehold provisions.
properties see above, we also tested managements calculations in respect of leasehold stores where the estimated future benefits are not expected to exceed Onerous lease provisions the future lease commitments, resulting in an onerous lease.
Accounting standards require management to assess the Groups leasehold We obtained managements onerous lease model, which includes all leased stores, properties to identify where the expected future benefits from a property are and tested the accuracy and completeness of key data by agreeing inputs such less than the future lease commitments which would indicate that an onerous as individual store cash flows.
This helps provide an insight into store profitability.
Under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and We agreed lease expiry dates for a sample of stores to the original signed lease contingent assets such a provision is made for the unavoidable costs of the agreements, noting no issues.
contract, defined in the standard as the least net cost of exit.
We obtained the Groups approved budget upon which forecasts are based and We focused on this area because of the judgements required to be made by assessed the principles of the Groups discounted cash flow model, noting no management in identifying those stores requiring an onerous lease provision and exceptions.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculation derived from the assumptions used in the models, such as the discount rate and those used in each forecast model and assessed key inputs in the calculations such as revenue developing the associated cash flow forecasts.
We also note that management growth and discount rate, by reference to managements forecasts, analyst reports judgement is required to assess the level of provision for lease guarantees in and our own Real Estate experts, with no issues noted.
The discount rate used is respect of My Local stores previously disposed of.
consistent with the Groups cost of debt and the requirements of IAS 37.
Onerous property contracts We obtained managements calculation of the required provision for former The Group has a number of sites that it is contractually committed to purchase My Local leases which reverted back to the Group in a prior year.
We assessed as well as other property related contracts.
For example, where management the principles of the model and tested key inputs such as lease commitment believes that no economic benefit would result from developing the store, information and sublet assumptions, with no issues noted.
There are judgements involved in determining the expected realisable value of these sites and therefore this has been an area of focus Onerous property contracts during our audit.
In respect of onerous property contracts, we obtained original contracts and managements calculations and considered the accuracy of these provisions by performing recalculations and testing key inputs such as estimates of contract exit costs and contractual payments due.
We considered the completeness of these provisions by reviewing documentation in relation to these contracts.
We found no issues in this area.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of onerous lease and contract provisions, and, based on our work, determined that theyare consistent with accounting standards.
52 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income and promotional funding Our audit work in respect of commercial income and promotional funding Refer to note 1.1 accounting policies, page 64 critical accounting judgements and comprised a combination of controls testing, substantive testing of a sample of estimates and notes 1.6 operating profit.
income and funding recognised during the period, testing of amounts recognised in the balance sheet and an assessment of the Groups disclosures in this area.
Commercial income Each element of our work is considered in more detail below.
The Group has two categories of commercial income: marketing and advertising Controls testing funding, and volume based rebates on purchases.
Our controls work encompassed understanding, evaluating and testing Commercial income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales and managements key controls in respect of the recognition of both commercial is earned over the period of the contractual agreements with individual income and promotional funding.
These key controls included the monitoring suppliers, as disclosed in the Groups accounting policy on page 65.
The total of invoices raised and the accuracy of confirmations from suppliers.
We found no income recognised in the income statement in a year is based on the expected significant deficiencies in these key controls, and our testing of managements key entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under each supplier agreement.
system controls contributed to our evidence in determining whether commercial It requires management to apply judgement based on the contractual terms in income and promotional funding had been recorded appropriately and in the place with each of its suppliers, together with estimates of amounts the Group correct period.
is entitled to where transactions span the financial period end.
Income statement testing The relative level of judgement in each category of commercial income We tested a sample of commercial income and promotional funding to is considered below: supporting documentation including supplier agreements.
We requested Commercial income marketing and advertising funding confirmations directly from suppliers in respect of a sample of commercial This income is varied with regards to the nature and timing of the activity to which income and manual promotional funding across a large number of suppliers.
it relates, and is recognised in accordance with written agreements with suppliers.
The confirmations received, and documentations reviewed, allowed us to evaluate This income is based on specific agreements, and its recognition requires limited whether commercial income or promotional funding had been appropriately judgement or estimation by management in determining the amount that the recognised in the period.
No exceptions arose from this work.
Our focus was on assessing whether a written agreement for We also analysed commercial income and promotional funding recognised the marketing and advertising funding existed, whether the relevant marketing or each month and compared it to the previous period to identify whether advertising had taken place and whether the income recognised was recorded in there were any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of commercial the appropriate period.
income and promotional funding recognised in each period.
We used a data analytics approach to identify any unusual items in the commercial income and Commercial income volume based rebates promotional funding populations.
Where unusual items were identified these Volume based rebates are driven by the Group achieving purchase volume targets were agreed to supporting documentation without exception.
set by individual suppliers for specific products over a predetermined period.
There is therefore judgement involved in estimating the volume of purchases, Balance sheet testing particularly where rebate agreements span a financial periodend.
In order to We wrote to a sample of suppliers, and obtained independent evidence of the narrow this judgement, management endeavours to structure agreements to value and timing of commercial income and promotional funding to evaluate coincide with the Groups financial periodend, thereby reducing or eliminating whether it had been recognised in the correct period.
We also agreed a sample the degree of estimation.
In instances where the rebate agreement does not fully of accrued income to evidence of postyear end invoicing.
We performed cutoff coincide with the periodend, the key judgement that we focused on was the procedures and credit note testing to provide further evidence to support the estimate of commercial income to be accrued at the period end.
timing of the recognition of both commercial income and promotional funding.
Promotional funding Cutoff work involved testing a sample of commercial income and promotional The Group separately recognises promotional funding on promotions that are funding recognised both pre and post the periodend and evaluating by reference partially funded by suppliers.
to documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was appropriate.
We found no issues as a result of our audit procedures.
The majority of promotional funding is an automated deduction from cost of sales, triggered when a sale is recognised.
The funding is recognised when Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the periodend in the transaction occurs in accordance with the terms of supplier agreements.
order to identify any instances of commercial income or promotional funding The amount receivable is wholly based on sales volumes achieved, multiplied being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
by rates agreed with each supplier upfront.
There are also some elements of We tested the recoverability of invoiced commercial income and promotional promotional funding which include a manual element to the calculation and funding unsettled balances included within trade debtors in note 5.3 to the invoicing.
We focused on promotional funding because of the significance of financial statements and where the Group does not have the right of offset the amounts to the Groups gross profit, the significant number of transactions against trade creditors.
This testing was performed by assessing the ageing of and agreements in place with suppliers covering a range of periods and the both outstanding commercial income and promotional funding debtors together industrywide focus on this area of accounting.
However, we note that the level with understanding the details of any disputes, and obtaining explanations of judgement and subjectivity in the calculations is lower because of the level of from management to assess whether any provisions were appropriate.
Our focus was on whether a written agreement for the promotional We also considered managements Key Performance Indicators in this analysis.
funding existed, whether the relevant promotion had taken place, and whether No exceptions were noted.
the funding recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of commercial income and promotional funding and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards and the guidance on the reporting of complex supplier arrangements issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
53 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment and capitalisation of intangible assets We obtained managements assessment as to whether the development of new Refer to page 64 critical accounting judgements and estimates and note 3.2 software or systems superseded or impaired any of the existing assets on the goodwill and intangible assets.
We also applied our own understanding of both new and existing projects and considered whether, in our view, any existing software was no longer The Group balance sheet includes capitalised intangible assets of 445m, of which in use or whether its life had been shortened by development activity.
We found the majority relates to software development costs incurred in connection with no such items.
the Groups technology improvement programme, details of which are shown on We revisited the expected costs budgeted by management within the cost page 76 of the Annual Report.
The Group has developed a proportion of its own benefit analysis and compared them to actual outcomes in the current period and software and systems that are used in the business.
we assessed the future expected benefits of the projects, with no issues identified We focused on this area because in light of the continued development of new from our work.
software and systems, judgement is required to assess whether the carrying value We tested a sample of costs capitalised in the period to assess whether these of the existing capitalised software or systems is impaired.
had been appropriately treated in line with the Groups accounting policy and In addition, some judgement is required with regards to the nature and extent of accounting standards, most notably IAS 38 Intangible assets.
We met with costs capitalised in assessing whether the criteria, set out in accounting standards, management responsible for particular costs to obtain an understanding of the required for capitalisation of such costs have been met.
associated projects and to independently assess whether project costs met the criteria for capitalisation as set out in accounting standards.
We found the explanations obtained from management to be consistent with our understanding of developments in the business and supported managements assessment that the costs met the relevant capitalisation criteria.
Where external third party contractors were used, we agreed the hours and charge out rates to the invoices issued by the contractor, and assessed whether the costs were directly related to a capital project, with no exceptions noted.
To determine whether internal employee costs were directly attributable to projects, we obtained listings of hours worked on individual projects for the employment costs capitalised.
We selected a sample of the individual hours recorded and obtained an understanding of the work performed by the employee.
We also checked that the hours charged equated to the value of costs capitalised by comparing the proportion of costs capitalised to the employees salary.
No exceptions were noted from this work.
We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of intangible assets, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
Overall we found that the costs capitalised were supportable and consistent with the requirements of accounting standards for capitalising such costs.
No material impairment of the intangible assets was identified from our work.
We attended stock counts throughout the period at a sample of the Groups Stock valuation supermarkets, petrol forecourts, distribution centres and manufacturing locations.
Refer to note 1.1 accounting policies, page 64 critical accounting judgements and In addition to performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of estimates and note 5.2 stock.
the count controls in operation.
We also evaluated the results of other cycle The valuation of stock of 614m 2016: 616m was focused on because of the counts performed by management and third parties throughout the period to nature of the judgements made by management when assessing the level of assess the level of count variances.
We found no material variances or count provisions required.
As disclosed in note 5.1 to the financial statements, provisions control deficiencies across these sites.
are held against stock based on an assessment of specific risks identified within the stock balance.
The most significant categories of risk include estimated losses We tested managements shrinkage assumptions determined by the count related to shrinkage and obsolescence, a deduction for unearned commercial procedures and the comparison of this to historical data.
The historical data income as the stock related to that commercial income and promotional included the results of the recent counts at each location, and our procedures funding has yet to be sold and other specific provisions based on identified risks.
did not identify any significant unusual fluctuations in the data.
When the stock is sold, the commercial income and or promotional funding is The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental percentage to recognised in the income statement.
the period end stock levels, with this judgement being informed by managements view of the current stock profile and expected stock life.
We considered this As stock is counted by the Group on a cyclical basis, rather than in full at the provision by assessing the explanations provided by management on the current period end date, the shrinkage provision at 29 January 2017 contains a degree profile and expected stock life noting no issues.
We tested the unearned commercial income deduction by verifying the inputs of the calculation and methodology behind the provision with no issues noted.
We have assessed the other specific provisions with reference to the risks identified by management and noted no issues.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of inventory, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
54 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Pension accounting We obtained the IAS 19 valuation reports produced by the Groups actuaries.
Refer to note 1.1 accounting policies, page 64 critical accounting judgements and We used our own actuarial experts to assess the judgemental assumptions used estimates and note 8 pensions.
within the reports to form the valuation of the pension schemes liabilities, such as discount rate, inflation and mortality rates.
We obtained the detailed reports We have focused on the valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension underlying the valuation of the schemes assets and agreed the valuations to schemes because of the level of judgement required in determining the yearend third party confirmations.
We assessed the membership data used in valuing the valuation.
In addition, the size of the gross assets 4,674m and liabilities 4,402m schemes liabilities and tested any significant changes since the last valuation.
within the schemes are significant and material.
We agreed a sample of contributions made by the Group to bank statements.
The Group also carries a provision for backdated pension contributions related We have no exceptions to report as a result of this testing.
to the setup of a new defined contribution scheme which was formed in the year The net surplus position of the schemes at 29 January 2017 was 272m.
We have ended 31 January 2016 and requires further judgement in determining the value reviewed managements assessment of the right to recognise the net surplus in of the provision at 29 January 2017. two of the three schemes under the requirements of IFRIC 14, including inspecting updated legal advice, and are satisfied that it is appropriate to recognise the net asset on the balance sheet.
The third scheme RSP is recognised as a net liability and therefore this aspect of IFRIC 14 is not applicable.
We obtained managements latest assessment of the backdated pension contribution provision at 29 January 2017, including evidence of discussions with stakeholders in the period.
We are satisfied that the value of the provision is appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a Group finance function at its head office in Bradford.
Within the head office, supporting finance functions exist for each of the key business operating areas Group, Supermarkets, Manufacturing and Property, and these report to the Group finance team as appropriate.
The Group also maintains local finance teams at each of its key Manufacturing sites.
All work was conducted in the UK by the same Group audit team, other than Group reporting from a PwC component team from the UK firm auditing the complete financial information of a UK Manufacturing subsidiary, Wm Produce Limited.
Where the work was performed by the component auditor, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
As part of our yearend audit procedures, we held detailed discussions with the UK Manufacturing component audit team, including holding a detailed planning meeting with them and attending the audit clearance meeting with management.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our work accounted for 99% of Group revenues.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 16.85m 2016: 12m.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
Underlying profit is defined by management as profit before impairment, onerous contracts and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis, profit loss arising on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses and investments and IAS 19 pension interest, at a normalised tax rate, as reconciled in note 1.4 of the Group financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 825,000 2016: 600,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
55 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 29 and 30 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on page 23 with respect to the Groups Corporate Governance Code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate governance statement.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 49, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to report.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 28, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
56 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that to add or to draw would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing material how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider to add or to draw that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group attention to.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Group.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Groups members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
57 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report, Directors report and Corporate governance statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 8 March 2017 58
