INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING testing on a sample basis the controls related to FROM OUR AUDIT inventory stock counts and purchases: testing on a sample basis that items on the stock 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL ageing listing by season were classified in the STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED appropriate ageing bracket: We have audited the financial statements of Ted Baker assessing, in accordance with the relevant Plc for the 52 week period ended 28 January 2017 set accounting standards, the inventory cost out on pages 78 to 121.
In our opinion: methodology and the reasonableness of items included in the cost of inventory: the financial statements give a true and fair view evaluated current year provision by assessing of the state of the Groups and of the parent historical accuracy.
We examined the Groups companys affairs as at 28 January 2017 and of the historical trading patterns of inventory sold at full Groups profit for the period then ended: price and inventory sold below full price through the Group financial statements have been properly alternative clearance routes, together with the prepared in accordance with International Financial related margins achieved for each channel.
We Reporting Standards as adopted by the European used the information on trading patterns to assess Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : whether the provisions held have historically been the parent company financial statements have set at an appropriate level: and been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs assessing, based on our knowledge of the Group as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance and the market, the appropriateness of the with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and provision percentages applied by challenging the the financial statements have been prepared in assumptions made by the Directors on the extent to accordance with the requirements of the Companies which older season inventory can be sold through Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial various channels.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have also considered the adequacy of the 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF Groups disclosures in respect of the levels of provisions MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT against inventory.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that Valuation of Retail Store Assets leasehold had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows improvements, fixtures, fittings, and office unchanged from 2016 : equipment 80.7m 2016: 62.1m Valuation of Inventory 158.5m Refer to page 37 Audit Committee statement, 2016: 125.3m page 89 accounting policy note and pages 102 to 103 financial statement disclosures.
Refer to page 37 Audit Committee statement, page The risk: The Group has invested a significant 90 accounting policy note and page 109 financial amount of capital both within and outside the UK in its statement disclosures.
Given the relative immaturity of The risk: Inventory is carried in the Financial the brand outside the UK, the payback period is typically Statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
longer than for UK stores.
The Group had 462 2016: Sales in the fashion industry can be extremely volatile 422 stores and 28 2016: 26 outlets as at 28 January with consumer demand changing significantly based on 2017.
There is a risk that the carrying value of retail current trends.
As a result there is a risk that the carrying store leasehold improvements, fixtures, fittings and value of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
office equipment may be overstated if the profitability Our response: Our procedures were designed expectations for the related stores are adversely to challenge the adequacy of the Groups provisions impacted by trading and other conditions that were against inventory by seasonal collection and included: not anticipated in the initial business case.
The level of 72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY judgement involved in assessing impairment indicators maturity of the brand in the particular region: on retail stores is one of the key judgemental areas that - considering the appropriateness of the discount our audit is concentrated on.
rates applied by benchmarking against other Our response: Our procedures were designed comparable companies and assessing the key to challenge whether there were any indicators of assumptions applied within the Groups adjusted impairment and the need for any provisions against the WACC against available external market data: and asset carrying value and included: - applying sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts to assess the possible Evaluating the methodology, completeness, range of outcomes and the overall risk of any and accuracy of the Groups impairment trigger material impairment.
This assessment is undertaken for all stores regardless of the period of time the store We have also considered the adequacy of the has been open.
This analysis is used to identify Groups disclosures in respect of impairment of retail those stores performing below expectations fixed assets.
and accordingly with assets at a greater risk of impairment: 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND For stores identified by the above analysis, AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT we considered whether there was an indicator The materiality for the Group financial statements as a of impairment based on the number of years whole was set at 3.0m 2016: 2.8m determined with the store has been open, as well as the local reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of market conditions: which it represents 4.8% 2016: 4.8%.
Where there were indicators of impairment, We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected assessing the cash flow forecasts for that store or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding against historical performance and knowledge 150,000 2016: 140,000 in addition to other of the market to check whether the recoverable identified misstatements that warranted reporting on amount exceeds the carrying amount of the qualitative grounds.
This included: Of the Groups 22 2016: 23 reporting components, the Group audit team subjected the 3 2016: 4 UK - testing the accuracy of the calculations: components to an audit for Group reporting purposes - assessing the key assumptions including growth and 1 2016: 3 US component to specified risk focused rates in turnover and margin expectations by audit procedures performed by component auditors in reference to historical rates achieved, the accuracy the US.
of previous forecasts and our understanding of the The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: NUMBER OF GROUP TOTAL PROFITS AND TOTAL COMPONENTS REVENUE LOSSES THAT MADE ASSETS UP GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2017 Audits for group reporting purposes 3 61% 92% 64% Specified risk focused audit procedures 1 24% 4% 22% TOTAL 4 85% 96% 86% 2016 Audits for group reporting purposes 4 67% 82% 67% Specified risk focused audit procedures 3 24% 9% 23% TOTAL 7 91% 91% 90% 73 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY For the remaining components, we performed the Directors viability statement on page 23, analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine concerning the principal risks, their management, our assessment that there were no significant risks of and, based on that, the Directors assessment and material misstatement within these.
expectations of the Groups continuing in operation The Group audit team instructed component over the next five years to 2022: or auditors in the US as to the significant areas to be the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements covered, including where relevant the risks detailed concerning the use of the going concern basis above and the information to be reported back.
components audits were covered by the Group team.
The Group audit team approved the components 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN materialities which ranged from 2.2m - 2.9m 2016: RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE 2.1m - 2.7m, having regard to the mix of size and ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION risk profile of the Group across the components.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to The Group team visited the component auditor in you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our the US and telephone conference meetings were held audit, we have identified other information in the Annual with the US component auditor.
At these meetings the Report that contains a material inconsistency with either Group team discussed the audit strategy and the findings that knowledge or the financial statements, or a material reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
detail, and any further work required by the Group audit In particular, we are required to report to you if: team was then performed by the US component auditor.
we have identified material inconsistencies between 4.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS the knowledge we acquired during our audit and PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the Directors statement that they consider that the IS UNMODIFIED Annual Report and financial statements taken as In our opinion: a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be to assess the Groups position and performance, audited has been properly prepared in accordance business model and strategy: or with the Companies Act 2006: and the Audit Committee statement does not the information given in the Strategic Report and the appropriately address matters communicated by us Directors Report for the financial period for which to the Audit Committee.
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and adequate accounting records have not been kept from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not we have not identified material misstatements in visited by us: or those reports: and the parent company financial statements and the in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be accordance with the Companies Act 2006. audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON certain disclosures of directors remuneration THE DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS specified by law are not made: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have not received all the information and we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in explanations we require for our audit.
relation to: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY the Directors statements, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 32 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Robert Brent Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 23 March 2017 75 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 S E Y E E H T N O Y S A E S E Y E E H T N O Y S A E
