Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our Audit Our response our procedures included: - An assessment of the Groups historical budgeting 1.
Our Opinion on the Financial S tatements is accuracy in relation to each significant CGU in Unmodified order to evaluate the Groups ability to achieve We have audited the financial statements of JD Sports forecasts: Fashion Plc for the 52 week period ended 28 January - We agreed the 2017-18 figures used in the 2017 set out on pages 103 to 171.
In our opinion: discounted cash flow models to board approved budgets having challenged the assumptions the financial statements give a true and fair inherent within those budgets: view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 28 January 2017 and - We have tested the principles and integrity of of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the discounted cash flow models used: the Group financial statements have been properly - We challenged the directors assumptions on prepared in accordance with International Financial revenue, margin and terminal growth by critically Reporting Standards as adopted by the European analysing their strategy for future growth and Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : undertook our own assessments of future growth potential based on long term growth within the the Parent Company financial statements have market and historical performance of margin been properly prepared in accordance with UK growth within the Group: Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and - We assessed the overall consistency of the assumptions and of the inputs, by comparing the financial statements have been prepared in growth and discount rates applied in the models accordance with the requirements of the Companies across each CGU: Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
- With the support of our own KPMG valuation specialist we assessed the reasonableness of the discount rates applied to groups of cash 2.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement generating units: and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that - We performed sensitivity analysis on the key had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts order of audit significance, were as follows: predominantly revenue growth, margin growth, and terminal growth and the discount rates used.
- We considered the adequacy of the Groups Risk vs 2016: disclosures in respect of impairment testing and Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the pages 128 to 129 accounting policy and pages 128 to outcome of the impairment assessment to 131 financial disclosures changes in the key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and fascia The risk There is a risk of impairment of the groups names.
significant goodwill and fascia name balances due to challenging trading conditions in certain of the high Valuation of Separately Identifiable Intangible Assets street retail sectors and locations that the Group Recognised as Part of the Acquisition of Go Outdoors operates in.
Goodwill and fascia names are reviewed Topco Limited - 66.7m 2016: nil new risk by the directors for impairment using value in use Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, pages 126 models which require estimates to be made of the to 129 accounting policy and page 123 financial present value of future cash flows to be earned disclosures generated in the related business.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting The risk Included within the fair value of net future cash flows, which are used as the basis of the identifiable assets recognised on acquisition of Go assessment of recoverability of all goodwill and fascia Outdoors Topco Limited are separately identifiable names, this is one of the key judgmental areas that our intangible assets of 66.7m.
The technique involved in audit concentrated on.
valuing these assets involves a high degree of We regard the risk of impairment of the groups judgement, with estimates including future sales, significant goodwill and fascia name balances as discount rates and also royalty relief rates.
having reduced year on year.
This is due to impairments Our response our procedures included: which have been taken in previous years, in particular in relation to the Blacks and Millets CGU.
Furthermore - An inspection of the sale and purchase agreement, there has been an improvement in the trading with the assistance of both our forensic and performance of the Outdoor CGUs and continued taxation specialists, in order to identify key terms strong performance of the Sports Fashion CGUs.
of the transaction and the how they may impact the accounting treatment: 99 99 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only continued - An assessment of the work prepared by the Group - We assessed the overall consistency of the which was informed by an external valuation application of the policy, by evaluating against specialist, engaged by the entity, who advised on prior periods, coupled with an assessment of the the methodology and assumptions used to assumptions used and inventory sold below cost identify and value the separately identifiable during the year.
We formed our own expectation intangible assets: of the inventory provision by analysing inventory disaggregated by season, and forming an - An examination and challenge of the key expectation based on stock not bought in the last judgements adopted in preparing the underlying 6 months, and stock that would not be sold within forecasts, such as the forecast revenues and cash the next 12 months based on historical sales flows, used to value the separately identifiable rates: and intangible assets: - We considered the adequacy of the financial - With the assistance of our internal valuation statement disclosures in respect of gross inventory specialists, evaluating the valuation methodologies and inventory provisioning.
In relation to inventory used as well as assessing both the royalty relief acquired as part of business acquisitions, we rate and discount rate against externally challenged managements assessment of the fair benchmarked data: value and performed sensitivity analysis with - Performing sensitivity analysis relating to the respect to historic gross margin percentages as valuation of intangible assets, specifically around well as expected costs to sell.
the royalty rate and discount rate: and - We considered the adequacy of the financial 3.
Our Applica tion of Materiality and an Overview statement disclosures in respect of critical of the Scope of our Audit accounting estimates and judgements relating to The materiality of the Group financial statements as intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
a whole was set at 10.0 million 2016: 7.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group Carrying Value of Inventories 348.0m 2016: profit before tax, of which it represents 4.2%.
Risk vs 2016: h g materiality was determined with reference to a Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, page 136 benchmark of Group operating profit, normalised accounting policy and page 136 financial disclosures to exclude that years exceptional items, of which it represented 4.5%.
The risk over the carrying value of inventories is considered a significant audit risk due to the seasonal We report to the Audit Committee any corrected nature of the Groups core retail business, the and uncorrected misstatements exceeding 0.5 changing desirability of branded products over time million 2016: 0.3m, in addition to other identified and the judgement therefore made in assessing the misstatements that warranted reporting on recoverability of its carrying value.
balance has increased by 109.7m due to organic growth within existing fascias coupled with the Of the groups 40 2016: 33 reporting components, we effect of newly acquired entities.
subjected 5 2016: 4 to audits for group reporting purposes and 1 2016: Nil to specified risk-focused We regard this risk as having remained at the same audit procedures covering the specific risk areas level year on year.
Although revenues and profits including those identified in this report.
The latter have increased, there remains an inherent level of was not individually financially significant enough uncertainty over inventory valuation given its nature to require an audit for group reporting purposes, and the reliance on future sales prices.
but did present specific individual risks that Our response Our procedures included: needed to be addressed.
- Testing the principles and integrity of the obsolescence provision calculations used across the Group principally by performing our own assessments in relation to key assumptions within the model such as the proportion of current inventory expected to become aged in the future and average proceeds received for aged inventory: Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only continued The components within the scope of our work Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in accounted for the following percentages of the the course of the audit of the financial statements and Groups results: from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: Group profit Group total Number of Group and losses assets and we have not identified material misstatements in components revenue % before tax % liabilities % those reports and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Audits for Group 5 77 83 86 1 reporting purposes Act 2006.
W e Have Nothing to Report on the Disclosure of 2 audit procedures Principal Risks Total 6 80 86 87 Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Total 2015 16 4 79 83 88 the directors viability statement on page 79 1 In the UK, France, and Spain.
concerning the principal risks, their management, 2 In the Netherlands.
and, based on that, the directors assessment and The remaining 20% 2016: 21% of total group expectations of the groups continuing in operation revenue, 14% 2016: 17% of group profit and losses over the 3 years to 2020: before tax and 13% 2016: 14% of total group assets is or represented by 34 reporting components 2016: 29, the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements none of which individually represented more than 3.5% concerning the use of the going concern basis of of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax accounting.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to 6.
W e Have Nothing to Report in Respect of the re-examine our assessment that there were no Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Exception Under International Standards of Auditing UK and The Group team instructed component auditors as Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on to the significant areas to be covered, including the the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have relevant risks detailed above and the information to be identified other information in the annual report that reported back.
The Group team approved the contains a material inconsistency with either that component materialities, which ranged from 1.0m knowledge or the financial statements, a material to 7.2m 2016: 1.5m to 6.2m, having regard to misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across In particular we are required to report to you if: the components.
The work on 4 of the 6 components 2016: 2 of the 4 components was performed by we have identified material inconsistencies between component auditors and the rest by the Group team.
the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the The Group team visited 4 2016: Nil component annual report and financial statements taken as a locations in the UK, Spain, France, and the Netherlands, whole is fair, balanced and understandable and including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video provides information necessary for shareholders to and telephone conference meetings were also held assess the Groups performance, business model and with these component auditors.
At these meetings, the strategy: or findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the the section of the Corporate Governance Statement Group team was then performed by the component describing the work of the Audit Committee does auditor.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Our Opinion on Other Ma tters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is Unmodified Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required In our opinion: to report to you if, in our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report adequate accounting records have not been kept by to be audited has been properly prepared in the parent company, or returns adequate for accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and our audit have not been received from branches the information given in the Strategic Report not visited by us: or and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
1 101 01 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only continued the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 80 to 84 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and Responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants, 1 St. Peters Square, Manchester, M2 3AE 10 April 2017
