Redefine International P. L. C. 96 Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. In our opinion: 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view Redefine International P. L. C. the Group or the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our of the state of the Groups and of the Companys Company for the year ended 31 August 2017 professional judgement, were of most significance affairs as at 31 August 2017 and of the Groups which comprise the Group and Company Income in the audit of the financial statements and include profit and of the Companys loss for the year Statements, the Group and Company Statements of the most significant assessed risks of material thenended: misstatement whether or not due to fraud Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company the Group financial statements have been Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Statements identified by us, including those which had the properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the issued by the International Accounting Standards Statements of Cash Flows and the related notes, allocation of resources in the audit: and directing Board IASB : and including the accounting policies in note 2.
The the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise the Company financial statements have been below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of financial reporting framework that has been applied properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as in their preparation is the Isle of Man Companies audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion issued by the IASB.
Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting above, together with our key audit procedures to Standards IFRS.
address those matters and, as required for public Basis for opinion interest entities, our results from those procedures.
We conducted our audit in accordance with These matters were addressed, and our results are International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs based on procedures undertaken, in the context UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the described below.
We believe that the audit evidence financial statements as a whole, and in forming our we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental basis for our opinion.
to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Group financial statements Valuation of investment property Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 106 key judgement in accounting policies and pages 119 to 121 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The valuation of the Groups investment In this area our audit procedures included, among others: properties involves significant judgements assessing managements process for reviewing and addressing the work of the external valuers: made by management using the advice of assessing the competence, objectivity and integrity of the external valuers.
This assessment included external valuers, particularly those around the but was not limited to assessing their professional qualifications, experience and independence from selection of valuation models and the inputs to the Group: those models, current market conditions and rental levels.
discussing and where appropriate, challenging, the external valuers in respect of: the valuation process adopted: The valuation exercise also relies on the completeness and accuracy of the underlying the significant assumptions used and critical judgement areas in the valuation process including lease and financial information provided to the break clauses, future lease income and yields: and valuers by management.
the performance of the relevant portfolio.
for certain portfolios, using our internal valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the valuation methodology applied, considering whether the methodology is in line with accounting principles and also to challenge key inputs in light of market indicators: testing on a sample basis the integrity of the information provided to the independent valuers used in valuing the properties, by agreeing that information to underlying agreements: and considering the completeness and adequacy of the disclosures associated with investment property.
Our Results based on the results of our testing, we consider the investment property valuations to be acceptable.
Debt refinancing Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 107 key judgement in accounting policies and pages 128 and 129 financial disclosures.
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit In determining the fair value of debt on initial In this area our audit procedures included, among others: recognition, the Group must assess whether assessing whether the new debt arrangement was considered a substantial modification in fair value equals the transaction price or, accordance with the provisions of IAS 39: specifically, whether the contractual interest assessing whether the contractual refinanced rate was considered representative of an offmarket rate agreed with the counterparty reflects transaction having regard to corroboratory market evidence: a market interest rate.
If an alternative assessing the reasonableness of the market interest rate applied to the refinanced debt to calculate interest rate is applied in the measurement of fair value, the Group must corroborate fair value on initial recognition: and why the contractual rate is not considered assessing the completeness and accuracy of the calculations and journal entries associated with the representative of a market rate.
In reflecting the difference between the Our Results estimated fair value of the debt and the Based on the results of our testing, we consider the accounting treatment of the debt refinancing to be transaction price, the difference is taken to acceptable.
profit and loss, only if the interest rate derived is based on observable inputs.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 97 Tax Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, pages 108 and 109 accounting policy and pages 118 and 131 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group has a significant and diversified In this area our audit procedures included, among others: portfolio across the UK and Europe and is including KPMG international and domestic taxation specialists in the Group audit team.
These therefore subject to the relevant tax legislation specialists evaluate the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group and its taxation advisers in a number of jurisdictions.
in calculating the taxation provisions for the period.
Particular focus is placed on assumptions relating The Group encounters challenges by tax to provisions for uncertain tax positions: authorities on a range of tax matters during specifically considering the taxation risks arising from the Groups operations when assessing the normal course of business and recognises the accounting for taxation related balances and applying sensitivity analysis to determine the provisions for anticipated tax audit issues appropriateness of key judgements: and based on estimates of whether additional taxes assessing the presentation and disclosure in respect of taxation related balances and considering will be due.
The calculation of these provisions whether the Groups disclosures reflect the risks inherent in the accounting for the taxation balances.
is underpinned by judgemental assumptions as the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Our Results based on the results of our testing, we consider the Groups treatment of uncertain tax positions to be acceptable.
Company financial statements Investment in subsidiary undertakings Refer to page 109 accounting policy and page 121 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Investments in subsidiary undertakings In this area our audit procedures included, among others: are carried in the Companys separate assessing the carrying value of subsidiaries for any objective indicators of impairment: and financial statements at cost less impairment.
assessing the accuracy of managements fair value calculations.
Impairments of these investments are determined by reference to the EPRA Our Results adjustednet assets of the Group.
based on the results of our testing, we consider the carrying value of investments in subsidiary Investment in subsidiary undertakings is undertakings to be acceptable.
significant as the subsidiarys performance candirectly impact that of the Company.
The Group consists of a number of components, 3 Our application of materiality and 4 We have nothing to report all of which, with the exception of the Groups anoverview of the scope of our audit on going concern 30.4 per cent 2016: 25.3 per cent investment The materiality for the Group financial We are required to report to you if: in RedefineBDL Hotel Group Limited, are statements as a whole was set at 16.3 million we have anything material to add or draw accounted for at the Groups head office in 2016: 16.7 million.
This has been calculated attention to in relation to the Directors London.
The Group audit team performed the with reference to a benchmark of total assets statement in Note 2 to the financial audit of all other components, including the of which it represents circa 1 per cent statements on the use of the going concern audit of the Company, within the Group as 2016:1per cent, which we consider to basis of accounting with no material if it were a single aggregated set of financial be one of the principal considerations for uncertainties that may cast significant doubt information.
These components represent members of the Company in assessing the over the Group and the Companys use of 99.3per cent 2016: 99.3 per cent of total assets financial performance of the Group.
Redefine that basis for a period of at least 12 months and 98.5 per cent 2016:80.2 per cent of Group International P. L. C. as a property company, from the date of approval of the financial profit before tax.
generates a return which is largely dependent statements: or on the assets held.
Materiality for the Company The audit was performed using the materiality the related statement under the Listing Rules financial statements as a whole was set at level set out above.
set out on page 92 is materially inconsistent 6.4million 2016:6.0 million, determined The remaining 0.7 per cent 2016: 0.7 per cent with our audit knowledge.
with reference to a benchmark of Company of total Group assets and 1.5 per cent 2016: total assets, of which it represents 1 per cent We have nothing to report in these respects.
19.8 per cent of Group profit before tax is 2016:1per cent.
represented by the Groups investment in We reported to the Audit Committee all RedefineBDL Hotel Group Limited, which is corrected and uncorrected misstatements we considered immaterial to the Groups identified through our audit with a value in financialposition.
excess of 0.8 million 2016: 0.8 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Redefine International P. L. C. 98 Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. 5 We have nothing to report on the Corporate governance disclosures Auditors responsibilities other information in the Annual Report We are required to report to you if: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable The Directors are responsible for the other assurance about whether the financial we have identified material inconsistencies information presented in the Annual Report statements as a whole are free from material between the knowledge we acquired together with the financial statements.
Our misstatement, whether due to fraud, other during our financial statements audit opinion on the financial statements does not irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion and the Directors statement, where the cover the other information and, accordingly, in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a Directors consider that the Annual Report we do not express an audit opinion or, except high level of assurance, but does not guarantee and financial statements taken as a whole as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs is fair, balanced and understandable and conclusion thereon.
UK will always detect a material misstatement provides the information necessary for when it exists.
Misstatements can arise Our responsibility is to read the other shareholders to assess the Groups position from fraud, other irregularities or error and information and, in doing so, consider whether, and performance, business model and are considered material if, individually or in based on our financial statements audit work, strategy: or aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to the information therein is materially misstated the section of the Annual Report describing influence the economic decisions of users taken or inconsistent with the financial statements or the work of the Audit Committee does on the basis of the financial statements.
Based solely on that work not appropriately address matters risk of not detecting a material misstatement we have not identified material misstatements in communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
resulting from fraud or other irregularities is the other information.
higher than for one resulting from error, as We are required to report to you if the Corporate it may involve collusion, forgery, intentional Governance Statement does not properly Strategic report and Directors report omissions, misrepresentations, or the override disclose a departure from the provisions of the Based solely on our work on the other of internal control and may involve any area UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the information: of law and regulation, not just those directly Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to we have not identified material affecting the financial statements.
misstatements in the strategic report and the A fuller description of our responsibilities Directors report: and 6 Respective responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at in our opinion the information given in those Directors responsibilities www.
reports for the financial year is consistent As explained more fully in their statement set with the financial statements.
7 The purpose of our audit work and to out on page 95, the Directors are responsible whom we owe our responsibilities for: the preparation of the financial statements Disclosures of principal risks This report is made solely to the Companys including being satisfied that they give a true andlongerterm viability and fair view and otherwise comply with the members, as a body.
Our audit work has Based on the knowledge we acquired during Isle of Man Companies Act 2006: such internal been undertaken so that we might state to our financial statements audit, we have nothing control as they determine is necessary to enable the Companys members those matters we material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the preparation of financial statements that are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest are free from material misstatement, whether the Directors confirmation within the viability due to fraud or error: assessing the Group extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statement on page 17 that they have carried and Companys ability to continue as a going assume responsibility to anyone other than the out a robust assessment of the principal concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters Company and the Companys members, as a risks facing the Group, including those that related to going concern: and using the going body, for our audit work, for this report, or for would threaten its business model, future the opinions we have formed.
concern basis of accounting unless they either performance, solvency and liquidity: intend to liquidate the Group or the Company the Directors statement of principal risks or to cease operations, or have no realistic N. Marshall describing these risks and explaining how alternative but to do so.
for and on behalf of they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm, and their statement as to whether they have 1 Harbourmaster Place a reasonable expectation that the Group IFSC will be able to continue in operation and Dublin 1 meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Ireland period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 26 October 2017 necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
