Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July 2017 and of the Groups and the parent companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
We have audited the financial statements of Ferguson plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Parent Company profit and Loss Account: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Cash Flow Statement: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the notes to the Group financial statements 1 to 37: and the notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
While the parent company is not a public interest entity as dened by European Regulation 537 2014, the Directors have decided that the parent company should follow the same requirements as if that Regulation applied to the parent company.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key risks that we identied in the current year were: Appropriateness of supplier rebates: Inventory provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory: and Accounting for restructuring costs.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 45m 2016: 40m which was determined on the basis of approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding exceptional items.
Scoping We performed full audits on the three key regions of continuing businesses, Head office entities and the consolidation process, representing 97% 2016: 96% of revenue, 99% 2016: 86% of profit before tax and 98% 2016: 99% of net assets.
significant changes Our approach is consistent with the previous year with the exception of: inour approach the inclusion of an additional key audit matter relating to the accounting for restructuring costs.
This relates to the disposal of theNordic region businesses and the restructuring in the UK where judgements are made over the costs categorised as exceptional.
the exclusion of the key audit matter relating to goodwill and intangible asset carrying values.
Following the impairment charge recognised for Beijer and the proposed sale of the Nordic businesses, the judgement over the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets reduced: and our planned audit scope has changed, taking into consideration changes in the Group structure as a result of completed and planned disposals.
The Nordic regions Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Norway and Switzerland were subject to full scope audits in theprevious year.
This year the scope has been reduced to analytical procedures.
128 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Conclusions related to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the principal risks and their management section on page 43.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 42-49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors conrmation on page 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that wouldthreaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement in note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis ofaccounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Group and the parent companys ability to continue todosoover a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions: or whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 arematerially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Appropriateness of supplier rebates Key audit matter As described in the Audit Committee report on page 61 as a significant judgement and the Accounting Policies in note 37 to the description Financial Statements, the Group recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of amounts receivable from suppliers in the form of rebate arrangements.
Where the rebate arrangements are non-tiered arrangements at rate, there is limited judgement.
However, a proportion of the rebate arrangements comprise annual volume rebates, for which the end of the period is often non coterminous with the Groups year-end.
Additionally, in some cases the rebate rises as a portion of purchases, as higher quantities or values of the purchases are made.
There is complexity in supplier rebates which give rise to management judgement and scope for fraud and error in accounting for thisincome.
Judgement is required in estimating the expected level of rebates for the rebate year, driven by the forecast purchase volumes.
Thisrequires a detailed understanding of the specic contractual arrangements themselves as well as complete and accurate source data to apply the arrangements to.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of manual and automated controls over the recording of supplier rebate income.
audit responded to Our procedures on supplier rebates included: thekey audit matter evaluating the design and implementation of key controls operating across the Group over the appropriateness ofsupplierrebates: in certain components, testing the operating effectiveness of the controls relating to supplier rebates: interviewing a sample of Fergusons internal buyers to supplement our understanding of the key contractual rebate arrangements: testing the accuracy of the amounts recognised by agreeing a sample to individual supplier agreements: circularising a sample of suppliers to test whether the arrangements recorded were complete: testing the completeness and accuracy of the inputs to the calculations for recording supplier rebates by agreement to supporting evidence, including historical volume data.
We challenged the assumptions underlying managements estimates of purchase volumes including looking at the historical accuracy of previous estimates and historical purchase trends and recalculation of rebates for a sample of suppliers: consider the adequacy of rebate related disclosure within the Groups financial statement: holding discussions with management to understand if there has been any whistleblowing: and testing post year-end cash receipts, where relevant, to test the recoverability of amounts recorded.
Key observations We consider the Groups estimation methodology to be prudent based on a number of factors, including a look back at historical cash receipts.
However, the methodology is consistently applied year-on-year and the understatement of rebate income is not material to the financial position or the reported financial result as at 31 July 2017.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc continued Inventory provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory Key audit matter The Group had inventory of 1,816m at 31 July 2017, held in distribution centres, warehouses and numerous branches, and across description multiple product lines.
Details of its valuation are included in the Audit Committee report on page 61 and the Accounting policies in note 37 to the Financial Statements.
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As a result, the Directors apply judgement in determining the appropriate values for slow-moving or obsolete items.
Inventory is net of a provision of 113m which is primarily driven by comparing thelevel of inventory held to future projected sales.
The provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
We consider the assessment of inventory provisions to require judgement based on the size of the inventory balance held at year-end and the manual intervention required in the calculation.
There is risk that inappropriate management override and or error may occur.
How the scope of our We challenged the appropriateness of managements assumptions applied in calculating the value of the inventory provisions by: audit responded to evaluating the design and implementation of key inventory provision controls operating across the Group, including those at a thekey audit matter sample ofdistribution centres, warehouses and branches: evaluating the design and implementation of key system controls around the provision calculation and their operating effectiveness: comparing the net realisable value, obtained through a detailed review of sales subsequent to the year-end, to the cost price ofasample of inventories and comparison to the associated provision to assess whether inventory provisions are complete: reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning, and the level of inventory write-offs during the year: and challenging the completeness of inventory provisions through assessing actual and forecast sales of inventory lines to assess whether provisions for slow moving or obsolete stock are valid and complete.
Key observations We consider the Groups provisioning methodology to be prudent when compared with historical levels of inventory write-offs.
However, the methodology is consistently applied year-on-year and our estimate of the potential overstatement of the provision is not material to the financial position or the reported result as at 31 July 2017.
Accounting for restructuring costs Key audit matter As described in notes 5 and 8 to the Financial Statements, the Group has announced a restructuring plan for the UK business and the description disposal of the Nordic region businesses.
The key judgements related to this risk lie in the estimation of the restructuring costs where they may differ from the future obligations.
By nature, the provision is difficult to estimate and includes many variables.
There is a risk that the provision could be underestimated by management to minimise the liabilities.
Additionally, depending on timing there is a risk that costs could be provided inappropriately that are not yet committed.
The impact of strategic reviews within the business and other future events gives rise to a source of estimation uncertainty.
The Group has recognised a cost of 40m in the year in respect of the UK restructuring, which is reported as an exceptional item in note 5, and an additional amount related to the Nordic region businesses, which is shown within discontinued exceptional items note 8.
There is a judgement required in determining whether disclosure as an exceptional item is appropriate.
The UK business is in phase 2 of the restructuring and given the branch closures and expected job losses, there is judgement around the estimated costs.
How the scope of our Our procedures on restructuring costs included: audit responded to challenging the key judgements made by management including evaluating the positions taken on which costs were provided for: thekey audit matter determining whether what is disclosed as exceptional directly related to the restructuring was incremental: checking the consistency of items included year-on-year and assessing adherence to IFRS requirements and latest Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance: holding discussions with the finance teams on the provision recorded: testing the provision in place by agreeing it to documentation to assess appropriateness of the level of provisioning: and understanding if any aspects of the restructuring could result in items to be classied as impaired.
Key observations We consider the restructuring charge recorded in the year to have been appropriately calculated.
130 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results ofour work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 45m 2016: 40m Basis for determining Approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding exceptional items.
materiality The profit before tax excluding exceptional items was 951m, which is 229m lower than the statutory profit of 1,180m.
The exceptional items we excluded from our determination are non-recurring in nature and explained further in note 5.
Rationale for the profit before tax is a key metric for users of the financial statements and adjusting for exceptional items is to reect the manner in which benchmark applied business performance is reported and assessed by external users of the financial statements.
Group materiality 45m Component materiality range 23m to 36m 951m 45m Audit Committee reporting threshold 2m PBT excluding exceptionals Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 2m 2016: 1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This is a change from the prior year where we reported all misstatements above 1m.
This reects the continued growth in the business.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
In addition, the understanding gained in our first year audit was utilised in scoping our second year audit.
Based on that assessment we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the three key regions of continuing businesses USA, UK and Canada.
Full audits were performed in these locations.
At the Group level we also tested Head office entities and the consolidation process.
Of continuing results, this provided coverage of 97% of revenue, 99% of the profit before tax and 98% of the net assets.
In 2016, Switzerland Tobler and the Nordic regions Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland were in full audit scope.
Following changes to the Group structure as a result of completed and planned disposals, Switzerland and the Nordic regions are subject to analytical procedures in the current year, which is consistent with the remaining entities in the Group.
Revenue profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope 97% 99% 98% Analytical procedures 3% 1% 2% The Group team is responsible for the Head Office entities in the UK and Switzerland and the consolidation.
The Group team carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
The component teams in the USA, UK and Canada perform audit work and report into the Group team.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the most significant locations where the Group audit scope was focused every year, being the USA, UK and Canada.
Senior members of the Group team also visited Denmark.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit partner in our team brieng, send detailed instructions to our component audit teams, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
For allcomponents we attend the local close meetings.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, otherthan the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our auditors report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where weconclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation ofnancial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend toliquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken onthe basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit for the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
132 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identied any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches notvisited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We are also required to report, under the Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Company on 12 November 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 July 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is two years, covering periods from our appointment to 31 July 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Ian Waller For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognized Auditor London, UK 2 October 2017 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133
