Independent Auditors Report to the members of Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited Report on the audit of the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited the Company as at 30 June 2017, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
What we have audited The Companys financial statements comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2017: the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants IESBA Code and SEC Independence Rules that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code and SEC Independence Rules.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Company materiality was $13.1 million which represents 1% of net assets.
Audit scope The Company is incorporated and based in Guernsey.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements from information provided by JP Morgan Administration Services Guernsey Limited the Administrator to whom the board of directors has delegated the provision of certain functions.
We also had significant interaction with Genesis Investment Management, LLP the Investment Advisor in completing aspects of our audit work.
We conducted all of our audit work in Guernsey.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Key audit matters Valuation and existence of investments Completeness and accuracy of revenue from dividend income 48 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Audit scope As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Company materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Overall Company materiality $13.1 million How we determined it 1% of net assets Rationale for the materiality benchmark We believe that net assets is the most appropriate benchmark because this is the key metric of interest to members.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.7 million, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation and existence of We agreed 100% of the prices of quoted investments in equity investments securities at year-end to independent pricing sources.
Investments at the year-end of $1.28 As the investments in Investee Funds were unquoted, we agreed billion are measured at fair value and 100% of the values of investments in Investee Funds at year-end to are a portfolio of primarily quoted confirmations of value received directly from the Investee Funds securities from emerging markets see administrators.
We also received the most recent set of audited Note 10. financial statements of the Investee Funds and 1 reviewed the audit opinion for any modifications or qualifications and 2 agreed any Investments make up the majority of differences in value from the reported capital account balance of the Statement of Financial Position Investee Funds to the audited financial statements.
As the majority and there is a risk that an incorrect of Investee Funds audited financial statements are not prepared as valuation could have a significant at 30 June 2017 this enables us to assess the reasonableness of the impact on the overall net assets of the unaudited capital accounts.
Company or that the Company does not have ownership of them.
We tested the existence of 100% of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for investments to an independent confirmation from the custodian.
No misstatements or differences were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 49 Completeness and accuracy of We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key revenue from dividend income controls surrounding income recognition.
Dividend income for the year was We tested dividend income by agreeing the dividend rates for a $30 million see Statement of sample of investments in the dividend income ledger to independent Comprehensive Income.
The investment portfolio is in emerging To test for completeness of dividend income, we confirmed that the markets and the risk exists that not all appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to dividend information is captured or independent data of dividends declared for a sample of investment recognised in the correct period.
We also reviewed the year-end bank reconciliations and the aged-debtors listing.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information as listed on the Table of Contents page of the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Other than as specified in our report, our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, the requirements of Guernsey law and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may 50 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have reviewed: the directors statement set out on page 22 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern: the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Evelyn Brady For and on behalf of  CI LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 29 September 2017 www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 51
