Independent Auditors report to the members of Syncona Limited Opinion on financial statements of Syncona Limited In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Holders of Ordinary Shares: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year IFRS 10 Investment Entity Exemption to Consolidation identified with.
Valuation of Life Science Investments Valuation of Fund Investments Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 17.2m Total net assets attributable to holders of Ordinary Shares 2016: 9.4m which was determined on the basis of 2% of NAV 2016: 2% of NAV.
Scoping As part of our audit planning we considered ISA 600 The Group engagement team carried out audit work on Audits of Group Financial Statements, which covers the each of the underlying subsidiaries executed at levels of audit of components.
We assessed each component based materiality applicable to each subsidiary, which in all on qualitative and quantitative factors to pinpoint account instances was lower than Group materiality.
balances, classes of transaction or disclosures that would require audit for the Group Financial Statements.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, encompassing all subsidiaries.
Significant In the year, the Group expanded its investment policy to As a result of the December 2016 Transaction, the valuation changes permit it to make Life Science investments, in addition to its of Life Science investments has been included as a new key in our approach existing commitment to the CRT Pioneer Fund, which led to audit risk.
This is considered to be a risk due to these being the acquisition of Syncona Partners LLP from the Wellcome early-stage life science businesses having limited products in Trust and the increase in the Groups investment in the CRT development and therefore the risk exists that the fair value Pioneer Fund the December 2016 Transaction.
recorded may materially differ from the amount which could be realised.
Syncona Limited 68 Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness We confirm that we have nothing of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Directors statement on the longer-term viability material to add or draw attention of the Group contained within the Directors Report on page 55. to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to We agreed with the Directors in relation to: adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did the Directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks not identify any such material facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency uncertainties.
However, because orliquidity: not all future events or conditions the disclosures on pages 40 to 45 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed can be predicted, this statement ormitigated: is not a guarantee as to the the Directors statement on page 55 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate Groups ability to continue as to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material a going concern.
uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 55 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm We confirm that we are that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance independent of the Group and with those standards.
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Risk of Fraud in Revenue Recognition has been removed as a key risk within our audit report given the level of revenue earned in the current year was not material.
IFRS 10 Investment Entity Exemption to Consolidation Risk description Given the expansion of the investment policy as a result of There are a number of criteria to be satisfied in determining the December 2016 Transaction, there was a requirement whether the Group meets the definition of an investment to re-assess the status of Syncona Limited as an entity under IFRS 10, including whether the Group measures investment entity as defined under IFRS 10 Consolidated investments on a fair value basis and has a documented Financial Statements IFRS 10, and the requirement to exit strategy.
Where a company meets the definition of an consolidate underlying subsidiaries.
investment entity, this standard requires investments in subsidiaries also meeting these criteria to be held at fair The accounting policies related to this risk can be found value rather than consolidated.
in note 2 of the financial statements and Audit Committee Report on page 57.
The risk is that the Group and its subsidiaries do not satisfy the required criteria and hence has applied the exemption inappropriately.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 69 Independent Auditors report to the members of Syncona Limited continued IFRS 10 Investment Entity Exemption to Consolidation continued How the scope In order to test the appropriate application of IFRS 10 we: including reviewing supporting documentation that of our audit assessed whether the Group measures investments Critically assessed the design and implementation of on a fair value basis and has a clear exit strategy for responded controls relating to the appropriateness of the application the underlying investments and other evidence set out to the risk of IFRS 10: in note3 to the Financial Statements: and Challenged the Directors assessment that the Group Considered the adequacy of the disclosures within meets the definition of an investment entity against the the Financial Statements required by IFRS 10. criteria set out in the amendments to IFRS 10 by considering the evidence in support of this view Key observations We have concluded that the approach adopted by the Directors is consistent with the requirements of IFRS 10.
Valuation of Life Science Portfolio Risk description In the year the Group acquired a portfolio of Life Science PRI 70.6m Fair value estimates, which are based investments and increased its Limited Partner interest in entirely on observable market data, are of greater reliability the CRT Pioneer Fund.
In total the Group holds Life than those based on assumptions and, accordingly, where Science investments with a fair value of 204.8m through there has been a recent investment by a third party, the Syncona Holdings Limited the HoldCo, and 21.8m price of that investment generally provides a basis of the through Syncona Discovery Limited held by Syncona valuation, unless there is objective evidence there has been Investments LP Incorporated Life Science Portfolio.
a movement in fair value since the investment was made.
Other valuation techniques 108.4m Where it is not The Group fair values its interests in Syncona Holdings appropriate to value an investment on a cost or PRI basis, Limited and Syncona Investments LP Incorporated which or there is objective evidence that a movement in fair value are themselves based on the fair value of underlying has occurred since a relevant transaction, then the investments and other assets and liabilities.
The underlying investments are recorded at fair value through profit and Directors employ one of the alternative methodologies set loss in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement out in the IPEVC Valuation Guidelines such as a IFRS 13 and International Private Equity and Venture discounted cash flow DCF approach or an earning Capital IPEVC guidelines.
based valuation based on comparable multiples.
The risk exists that the pricing methodology applied to the As the valuation was prepared by the Investment Advisor, underlying Life Science investments does not reflect an exit Syncona Investment Management Limited SIML and price in accordance with IFRS 13 and IPEVC guidelines.
adopted by BACIT UK Limited, the Board also commissioned an independent expert to opine on the In accordance with the accounting policy on page 81, reasonableness of the valuation.
investments are generally valued either at cost, price of recent investment PRI or through other valuation Details of the Life Sciences Portfolio balance are disclosed techniques: in notes 8, 14, and 23 and the accounting policies relating to them are disclosed in note 2 and Audit Committee Report Cost 25.8m Where a Life Science investment has on page 57. been made recently it is valued on a cost basis unless there is objective evidence there has been a movement in fair value since the investment was made.
How the scope In order to test the underlying Life Science investments as Reviewed agreements in place for the funding of the of our audit at 31 March 2017 we performed the following procedures: investments, in order to understand whether use of responded a PRI is a reasonable valuation basis: Critically assessed the design and implementation of to the risk Inspected the latest financial information, board meeting controls relating to the valuation process applied by BACIT minutes, investor reports, and other external information UK Limited and the monitoring and review by the board: sources to assess whether cost or PRI remains the most Evaluated the Directors methodology, against the representative valuation for that investment.
requirements of IFRS 13 and IPEVC guidelines: Concluded on the experience of the Directors valuation For investments where other valuation techniques are expert, as well as the scope of their work: and determined to be the best approximate of fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 we performed the following Reviewed the valuation performed by the Directors procedures: valuation expert, and challenged the Directors where their valuation point falls materially outside of the range Challenged the Directors to understand the rationale provided by the Directors valuation expert.
where DCF modelling is used, in order to assess whether this is a reasonable valuation basis.
For investments where cost or PRI are determined to Inspected the valuation model used, and challenged the be the best approximation of fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 we performed the following procedures: key inputs used in the model using our Valuations Expert.
This included benchmarking against broader market Obtained supporting documentation for amounts practice and sensitivity analysis on the inputs to the model.
invested, to assess whether the cost recorded is accurate and to understand whether use of cost is a reasonable valuation basis: Syncona Limited 70 Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Valuation of Life Science Investments continued Key observations We concluded that the valuations were within a reasonable range and the methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
Valuation of Fund Investments Risk description The fair value of the fund investment portfolio of the LP at The most significant financial asset at fair value through profit or loss recognised by the Group at the year-end is year end is 582.4m 2016: 460.4m and represents 87.4% 2016:97.5% of the fair value of the Groups investment in represented by a controlling capital interest in Syncona Investments LP Incorporated the LP, which is valued the LP.
at 690.7m 2016: 472.3m in the Consolidated Statement Details of the Fund investments balance are disclosed in of Financial Position.
notes 8, 14, and 23 and the accounting policies relating to The LP acts as the investment vehicle through which them are disclosed in note 2 and Audit Committee Report the Group holds its portfolio of Fund investments.
As described in note 2 to the financial statements, The risk exists that the pricing methodology applied by the the LP meets the definition of an Investment Entity under LP does not reflect the actual exit price of those investments IFRS 10, and as such is held at fair value through profit at the year-end in accordance with IFRS 13 and IPEVC or loss rather than being consolidated.
The most significant judgements are made in the pricing methodology applied in valuing the level 3 investments held within these Funds.
How the scope In order to test the valuation of the Fund investments as at Reviewed the valuation methodology applied to those of our audit 31 March 2017, we: investments classified as Level 3 within the fair value responded hierarchy under IFRS 13, and challenged the Directors as Assessed the design and implementation of controls to the risk to whether the assumptions used in valuing the underlying relating to the valuation of the Fund investments.
funds were a relevant and reasonable basis for calculating This included reviewing the report prepared by the the fair value of those investments at year end: independent service auditor of the controls adopted by Inspected the due diligence processes performed by the the LPs Administrator, Northern Trust International Fund Investment Manager, BACIT UK Limited, for a sample Administration Services Guernsey Limited: of investments: Recalculated the year end fair value of 100% of the Inspected the latest available audited financial statements investment portfolio using independent pricing for each investment, where available, to determine information.
For unquoted investments, prices for the whether prices reported by the investee funds purpose of subscriptions and redemptions from the administrators were reconciled to prices reported on funds were sought from the Administrators of the the date of these audited financial statements: and underlying investee funds: Recalculated the unrealised gains and losses on investments, based on original cost and year end fair value.
Key observations We found that the pricing methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Equity as at 31 March 2017 Group materiality Group materiality 17.2m Equity as at 31 March 2017 895m Component materiality range 0.5m to 13.9m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.9m Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 71 Independent Auditors report to the members of Syncona Limited continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 17.2m 2016: 9.4m Basis for 2% of NAV as at 31 March 2017 2016: 2% of NAV determining materiality Rationale for The Groups investment objective is to achieve superior The reason for the significant increase in materiality is the benchmark long-term capital appreciation from its investments.
due to the NAV of the Group increasing to 895.2m as applied We therefore considered the value of the Groups NAV at 31March 2017 2016: 472.2m as a direct result of to be a key performance indicator for shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 861k 2016: 188k, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, encompassing all subsidiaries.
We carried out audit work on each of the underlying subsidiaries executed at levels of materiality applicable to each subsidiary, which in all instances was lower than Group materiality.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating from our review.
to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, identified any such inconsistencies information in the Annual Report is: or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Syncona Limited 72 Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Becker Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor St Peter Port, Guernsey 5 July 2017 Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 73
