Financial  auditor's report Independent auditor's report to the members of Experian plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is Overview unmodified Materiality US$53m We have audited the financial statements of Experian plc for Group 5% of Group profit before tax the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on pages 120 to 204. financial continuing operations statements In our opinion: as a whole the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Coverage 90% of Group revenue of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 81% of Group profit before tax 31March 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows 92% of Group total assets and parent companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Risks of material misstatement Standards as adopted by the European Union: Recurring Provisions for taxation the parent company financial statements have been properly risks Provisions for litigation and contingent liabilities prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, Impairment of goodwill including FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework' and: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Tax - uncertain tax Dispute outcome Our procedures included: provisions and tax Experian operates in a number of territories Our tax expertise: Use of our own international planning worldwide with complex local and international tax and local tax specialists to assess the Groups tax US$213m legislation.
Uncertainties arise over ongoing tax positions, from correspondence with the relevant matters in the UK, the USA and Brazil.
tax authorities, discussions with the Groups external Refer to the Audit advisers, analysis and challenge of the assumptions committee report Tax provisioning for uncertain tax positions is used to determine tax provisions based on our within the Corporate judgmental and requires estimates to be made in knowledge and experiences of the application of the governance report and relation to existing and potential tax matters.
international and local legislation by the relevant the Group financial authorities and courts: statements notes 5, 6, 16, 35 and 43 c. Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Litigation and Dispute outcome Our procedures included: contingent liabilities The Group operates in an industry with continuously Enquiry of lawyers: On all significant legal cases, US$21m: 2016: US$nil increasing levels of regulation, including the assessment of correspondence with the Groups Financial Conduct Authority 'FCA' in the UK, and external lawyers in order to corroborate our Refer to the Audit the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau 'CFPB' in understanding of these matters, accompanied by committee report the USA, which increase the potential for regulatory discussions with both internal and external counsel: within the Corporate breaches and penalties.
governance report and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Group financial High levels of consumer litigation continue in the the Groups disclosures detailing significant legal statements notes 6, 36 USA and Brazil, particularly in relation to consumer proceedings adequately disclose the potential and 43. credit scores in Brazil.
Furthermore, in March liabilities of the Group.
2017 there was an unexpected adverse ruling in Canada relating to a 2010 contractual dispute, which Experian will continue to challenge.
The outcome of such litigation is uncertain and any position taken by management will involve significant judgment and estimation.
Goodwill impairment Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: assessment in The carrying value of goodwill as at 31 March 2017 is Assessing methodology: Assessing that the respect of EMEA and US$4,245m.
principles and integrity of the cash flow models are in Asia Pacific cash accordance with the relevant accounting standards: Of this, US$4,045m relates to CGUs where there generating units is significant headroom between the value-in-use Challenging growth assumptions: Challenging 'CGUs' and the carrying value of net assets.
The remaining managements assumptions and obtaining support, US$200m: 2016: balance of US$200m relates to the EMEA and Asia such as Board-approved strategy plans and customer US$313m Pacific CGUs.
The estimated recoverable amount contracts, for the growth initiatives used in the cash of these CGUs shows relatively low headroom and flow models: Refer to the Audit the models are particularly sensitive to changes committee report Our sector experience: Reviewing the inassumptions.
within the Corporate appropriateness of discount rates through the use of governance report and Key inputs in the impairment models are inherently our valuations specialists: the Group financial judgmental, which increases the potential risk of Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis statements notes 5, error.
on the key assumptions noted above: 6 and 20.
Any decline in current or forecast trading could Historical comparisons: Evaluating the track record have a material impact on the carrying value of of historical assumptions used against actual results associated goodwill.
achieved: Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
117 Financial  auditor's report Independent auditor's report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an PBT continuing operations Materiality US$1,071m US$53m overview of the scope of our audit Materiality: US$53m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was Whole financial set at US$53m, determined with reference to a benchmark of statements materiality consolidated profit before tax on continuing operations of which US$9m US$32m it represents 5%.
Component materiality We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding US$2.6m 5% of US$2.6m Profit before tax materiality, in addition to any other identified misstatements that Misstatements reported Group materiality warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
For balance sheet to the Audit Committee reclassification adjustments which did not impact profit, we reported to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected Group revenue Group profit before tax identified misstatements exceeding US$10m.
% % Scoping: 10 19 The Group is structured into five geographical regions, being North America, Latin America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and % % Asia Pacific.
Each of these regions is made up of a number of 90 81 reporting units.
We have identified three reporting units that % % 90 81 require audits for Group reporting due to their size and or risk profiles.
These are Experian Holdings Inc. the majority of the North America region, Serasa S. A. in the Latin America region and Experian Limited in the UK and Ireland region.
These audits Group total assets were performed by component audit teams.
% 8 Detailed audit procedures have been conducted centrally over the treasury function, tax provisions, goodwill impairment, postemployment benefits obligations, acquisitions and disposals, % 92 share incentive plans and earnings per share.
% % 92 92 The three components and the work performed by the Group audit team account for coverage of 90% of Group revenue, 81% of Group profit before tax and 92% of Group total assets.
The Group operates five shared service centres globally, the For these other components, we have performed analysis at an outputs of which are included in the financial information of the aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there reporting components they service and therefore they are not were no significant risks of material misstatements within these.
Each of the shared service The Group audit team visited the USA, the UK and Brazil centres is subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly during the year.
In addition to these visits, the Group team the testing of transaction processing and review of controls.
also held telephone and online meetings as part of the audit Additional audit procedures are performed by reporting planning phase to explain our audit instructions and discuss components to address the audit risks not covered by the work the component auditors plans.
The findings reported to the performed over the shared service centres.
Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component The remaining Group revenue, Group profit before tax and Group auditors as necessary, and any further work required by the total assets of other components not in scope are represented by Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
a significant number of other reporting components, none of which The Group team also reviewed the audit files of the in-scope individually represents more than 2% of these benchmarks.
components and attended their year-end meetings.
118 Financial  auditor's report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 4.
Our opinion on other matters under the terms of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys our engagement is unmodified compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the directors Governance Code specified for our review.
have engaged us to audit the information in the Report on directors remuneration that is described as having been audited, In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the directors which the directors have decided to prepare as if the Company have engaged us to review certain other disclosures as if were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to the Company were required to comply with the Listing Rules The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts applicable to companies incorporated in the UK.
Under the terms and Reports Regulations 2008 S. I.
410 made under the of our engagement we are required to review the directors UK Companies Act 2006. statement in the Directors' report in relation to going concern.
In our opinion, the part of the Report on directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, as if it applied to the Company.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of responsibilities in the Directors' report, the directors are principal risks responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable the directors statement in the Viability statement, law and International Standards of Auditing UK and Ireland.
concerning the principal risks, their management and, based Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Standards for Auditors.
Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31March 2020: or Scope of an audit of financial statements performed in the disclosure in note 2 of the Group financial statements accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on our website at www.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters auditscopeother2014.
This report is made subject to important on which we are required to report by exception explanations regarding our responsibilities, as published on Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, that website, which are incorporated into this report as if set based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the identified other information in the Annual Report that contains purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the basis of our opinions.
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact or that is otherwisemisleading.
The purpose of our work and to whom we owe our responsibilities In particular, we are required to report to you if: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in we have identified material inconsistencies between the accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Companys members those matters we are required to state to financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest understandable and provides the information necessary for extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members business model and strategy: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address have formed.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the terms of our engagement we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor from branches not visited by us: or 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL the financial statements are not in agreement with the 17 May 2017 accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
