Governance and accounts Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc Our opinion on the consolidated What we have audited financial statements We have audited the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2017, which comprise the: In our opinion the consolidated financial statements the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Company and its subsidiary together the Group : ended 31 March 2017 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2017 affairs as at 31 March 2017 and its profit for the year then ended: Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 Consolidated cash ow statement for the year ended have been properly prepared in accordance with 31March2017 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt asadopted by the European Union EU : and Related notes 1 to 19 to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Valuation of the investment portfolio Incomplete or inaccurate investment income recognition Calculation of performance fees Audit scope We performed an audit of the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc, and its subsidiary, 3iInfrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited together the Group for the year ended 31 March 2017 Materiality Materiality of 17.3m which represents 1% of net assets 2016: 12.8m, 1% of net assets What has changed There has not been a change of audit approach from the audit for the year ended 31 March 2016 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement As in prior years, we identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Valuation of the investment portfolio With the assistance of our infrastructure We confirmed that there were no significant 2017: 1,815.6m, 2016: 1,228.8m as valuation specialists, we performed the matters arising from our audit work on the described in the Report of the Audit and following procedures for a sample of assets valuation of the overall investment portfolio, and the techniques, cash ow forecasts and Risk Committee pages 64-66 and Note 7 in the investment portfolio: of the financial statements pages 90-92. other key valuation drivers that we wished to Assessed that the complex valuation bring to the attention of the Audit and Risk The valuation of the Groups investment techniques adopted by management to Committee.
portfolio is a key driver of the Groups value the assets within the investment investment return and represents a material portfolio, and conclusions reached, were We confirmed that valuation methodologies proportion of the Groups net assets.
The consistent with IFRS as adopted by the adopted were appropriate in relation to movements in the investment portfolio are EU and International Private Equity and IPEV guidelines and that the valuation of shown in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines the investment portfolio was not materially IPEV guidelines : misstated and was in line with IFRS as Inappropriate assumptions made in adopted by the EU.
determining the fair value of the investment Compared the actual cash ows in the portfolio could have a significant impact current year to prior year assumptions on the net asset value and the return in order to assess the accuracy of generated for shareholders.
managements forecasting process: Compared the key valuation drivers applied in the valuation models against current market and comparable transaction data in order to assess the appropriateness of these drivers: and Obtained and read the latest independent review opinion from the investment adviser in respect of the integrity of the cash ow models of each investment in our sample, where applicable.
74 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Incomplete or inaccurate investment We performed the following procedures: We confirmed that there were no significant income recognition 2017: 80.5m, matters identied during our audit work Obtained a breakdown by each 2016: 58.9m as described on in the on income recognition that we wished to investee company of investment income Report of the Audit and Risk Committee bring to the attention of the Audit and Risk recognised by the Group and, on a pages 64-66.
sample basis, agreed dividends to board Investment income in the form of minutes from the investee companies dividend and interest entitlements due and recalculated interest income based from underlying investee companies is on the underlying agreements: a key driver of the amount available for Agreed a sample of investment income distribution to shareholders by way of receipts to bank statements: and dividend.
Performed cut off procedures by If the Group is not entitled to receive the checking that a sample of investment investment income recognised in the income receipts around the year end financial statements, or the investment date were recognised in the correct income recognised is inaccurate or does financial year.
not relate to the current financial year, this could have a material impact on the ability of the Group to meet its stated dividend growth targets.
Calculation of performance fees 2017: We performed the following procedures: We confirmed that there were no significant 3.9m, 2016: 19.5m as described in the matters identied during our audit work on Performed a recalculation of the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee the calculation of performance fees that we performance fees incurred by the pages 64-66, and Notes 2 and 18 of the wished to bring to the attention of the Audit Group in the year using the calculation financial statements pages 88 and 99. and Risk Committee.
methodology described in the signed The performance fees incurred by the Investment Advisory Agreement Group are a material component of the between the Company and the Adviser: Groups cost base and, therefore, impact and the Groups total return.
The performance Agreed the inputs used in the calculation fee is disclosed in Note 2 to the financial of the performance fee to the Groups statements.
financial records and audited valuation As described in Note 18, the calculation ofthe investment portfolio.
methodology for the performance fee is complex and requires a number of subjective inputs from the Groups own financial records.
If the performance fee is not correctly calculated this could have a material impact on both the costs incurred and overall performance of the Group.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk prole, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company and itswholly owned subsidiary, 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 75 Governance and accounts Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 17.3m which is 1% of net assets 2016: 12.8m, 1% of net assets.
We derived our materiality calculation as a proportion of net assets as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, being 13.0m 2016: 75% of materiality, namely 9.6m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.87m 2016: 0.64m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
76 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions reporting information in the Annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Jersey Law 1991 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions reporting to report.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for ouraudit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 73 andlonger-term viability, set out on page 49: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to We have nothing reporting add or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw your attention to.
the directors conrmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
David Robert John Moore, ACA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Jersey, Channel Islands 10 May 2017 1 The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 77
