GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Wizz Air Holdings plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2017: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 12.7 million which represents 5% of profit before income tax.
Audit scope The group financial statements are a consolidation of Wizz Air Holdings plc, the trading subsidiaries Wizz Air Hungary Kft, Wizz Tours and a number of insignificant intermediate holding, small trading, dormant and ceased operation companies.
The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is largely centralised in Hungary where the majority of our audit work was performed.
Our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the significant component.
Areas of focus Aircraft maintenance provisioning.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 68 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Aircraft maintenance provisioning The group operates aircraft, which are held under We evaluated the integrity of the maintenance operating lease arrangements, and incurs liabilities provision system MPS and tested the calculations for maintenance during the term of the lease.
This included assessing the process by Provisions arise from legal and contractual which the variable factors within the provision were obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft estimated, evaluating the reasonableness of the when it is returned to the lessor.
The risk is that with assumptions, testing the input data and rethe inherent level of management judgement performing calculations.
We found no significant required in calculating the amount of provision issues in the MPS input data or the calculated together with the complexity of the calculation of a maintenance assets and provisions.
The basis for number of variable factors and assumptions, the these calculations was found to be consistent with provision may be understated.
prior periods and in line with the detailed accounting policy set out in Note 2.
Maintenance provisions of 111.8 million for aircraft maintenance costs in respect of operating leased We compared the cost assumptions in the MPS to aircraft are recorded in the financial statements at recent invoices, inspected future flight schedules 31 March 2017 refer to note 29 to the financial and approved maintenance plans as well as statements.
validated current flight hours and flight cycles to non-financial data sources.
We found no material For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, exceptions from these procedures and estimates.
the group is contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a certain condition or to compensate We read new or amended aircraft lease contracts and the lessor based on the actual condition of the aircraft validated the updated MPS input data.
We found no and its major components upon return.
material exceptions from these procedures.
Provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
This is when the respective aircraft component no longer meets the lease re-delivery conditions.
Commonly there is a warranty period for components at the start, during which no obligation arises: provisioning only commences after this warranty period.
At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the maintenance provision, derived from the maintenance provision system MPS, includes a number of variable factors and assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check and the time it is expected to occur: the condition of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
The provision booked by Management was considered appropriate in the Directors view.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 69 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Hedge and derivative accounting The group uses derivative financial instruments We evaluated the processes, procedures and options to hedge transaction currency comprising controls in respect of the groups treasury and other fuel, leasing and maintenance US dollar payments management functions which directly impact the and jet fuel price risks.
The risk is that because of their relevant account balances and transactions.
We materiality to the financial position of the Group and tested managements year-end account the level of manual input in monitoring open, closed reconciliation process, including cut-off procedures.
and settled derivatives and the complexity of the The results of this work allowed us to focus on requirements in order to apply hedge accounting substantiating the year-end positions recorded in the e. g. timely tailored documentation, including details financial statements.
We independently obtained of how hedge effectiveness is monitored both direct confirmations from each of the counterparties prospectively and retrospectively, an error could to test the cut-off at the year end.
We found no result in a material misstatement to the financial material exceptions from these confirmations.
We assessed the appropriateness of hedge At 31 March 2017, derivative financial assets accounting for the derivative financial instruments amounted to 10.1 million and derivative financial and adequate hedge documentation and liabilities were 1.8 million.
Further details are set out effectiveness testing was found to be in place.
We in notes 2, 3 and 20 to the financial statements.
tested, using independent data-feeds, the fair values The Directors review concluded that the amounts being ascribed to those instruments at the year end booked at 31 March 2017 are not materially misstated.
and noted no significant exceptions.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of derivative financial instruments.
We did not identify any significant issues with the measurement or presentation of the groups derivative financial instruments.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The Group has two reporting segments which comprise the airline and tour operator businesses.
The airline segment consists of Wizz Air Holdings plc and its trading subsidiary Wizz Air Hungary Kft, which includes branch operations in base countries.
The Tour reporting segment consists of the Wizz Tours operations which sells travel packages to external customers.
The airline segment contributes over 98% of profit before income tax.
Therefore, our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the only significant components.
The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is centralised in Hungary.
The audit is performed by a single engagement team comprising individuals based in the UK and in Hungary.
The operations are audited by applying their collective knowledge and understanding of the Group and its financial reporting processes and controls.
In addition to the standard audit work performed by the engagement team based in Hungary, the UK team members visited the Budapests management team three times during the audit cycle.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach, areas of focus and issues arising from our work.
The UK team members also attended the local clearance meeting in Hungary and all Audit Committee meetings in Switzerland, either in person or via telephone call.
This gave us the evidence we required for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 70 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 12.7 million 2016: 10.1 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before income tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before income tax is the primary measure used by shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6 million 2016: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern The Directors have complied with provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the Directors report.
The Directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required and voluntary reporting Consistency of other information Opinion on Strategic report and Directors report The Directors voluntarily prepare a Strategic report and Directors report in accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have requested that we express an opinion on the consistency of that information with the financial statements in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 71 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Other required and voluntary reporting continued Consistency of other information continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no information in the Annual Report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no the statement given by the Directors on page 67, in accordance with provision exceptions to report.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no the section of the Annual Report on pages 44 to 46, as required by provision exceptions to report.
C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing the Directors confirmation on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report, in material to add or to accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust draw attention to.
assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how material to add or to they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing the Directors explanation on page 63 and 64 of the Annual Report, in accordance with material to add or to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, draw attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 72 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Other required and voluntary reporting continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration The Directors voluntarily prepare a Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have requested that we audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report specified by the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
The Corporate Governance Statement includes the information with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures required by the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The directors have requested that we report on the consistency of that information with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 73 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit continued What an audit of financial statements involves continued We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Snell for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 May 2017 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 74 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 75
