Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Report of Independent Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited Our Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited the Company and itssubsidiaries together the Group affairs as at31January 2017 and of its profit for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles USGAAP : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 theCompaniesLaw.
What We Have Audited We have audited the financial statements of the Group which comprise: Consolidated statement of assets and liabilities as at 31 January 2017 Consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 January 2017 Consolidated statement of changes in net assets for the year ended 31 January 2017 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 January 2017 Consolidated schedule of investments as at 31 January 2017 Related notes 1 to 11 to the consolidated financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Overview of Our Audit Approach Risks of material misstatement Investment Valuation 2016: Investment Valuation Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 January 2017 Materiality Overall materiality of US$29.5m which represents 2% of net assets HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Report of Independent Auditors continued Our Assessment of Risk of Material Misstatement We identified the risk of material misstatement described below as that which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing this risk, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on this individual area.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Investment Valuation Our response comprised the performance of the No significant findings following procedures: were reported to the 2017: $1,295,753,465, 2016: audit committee in $1,129,487,543 Agreeing the individual fair values of each Harbourvest connection with the investment fund the Group has invested into to its Refer to the Audit Committee valuation of underlying audited Net Asset Value in the Report page 74 : Accounting investments.
corresponding financial statements as at 31 December policies page 93 : and Note 4 2016 which, prior to adjustments, formed the basis for ofthe Consolidated Financial the Groups carrying amount as at 31 January 2017 Statements page 96 byusing the practical expedient per ASC 820: Risk that the valuation of the Obtaining a schedule of all adjustments made to those Groups investments at 31 January audited Net Asset Values between 1 January 2017 and 2017, which comprise 87.8% 31 January 2017, and: 2016: 84.5% of net assets, is materially misstated.
Verifying foreign exchange rate changes, and their application to underlying investments denominated The valuation of the investments is inforeign currencies: the principal driver of the Groups Recalculating accrued management fees in net asset value and Net increase underlying investment funds: inNet Assets resulting from Recalculating the application of the discount operations.
Incorrect valuation percentage taken for the General Partner carry could have a significant impact on onunderlying investments gains losses: the net asset value of theGroup.
Independently sourcing third party prices and verifying fair value changes on publicly traded securities held in HarbourVests underlying investment funds: and Verifying contributions and withdrawals made to from underlying HarbourVest funds to supporting evidence Obtaining the valuations of all Investments not held directly in an underlying HarbourVest Fund, ie Direct Co-Investments 78 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee We judgementally selected a sample of direct investments held by the Underlying HarbourVest fundsbased on various factors including materiality, complexity in valuation methodology, and sensitivity ofinputs, and : Engaged EY valuation specialists to independently re-value and conclude on their values as at 30 September 2016, 31 December 2016, and roll forward to 31 January 2017: Identified key inputs to the valuation and performed sensitivity analysis around them: and Determined if conditions existed at 31 January 2017 against those sensitivities which could lead to material adjustments Obtained and examined the valuation adjustments for material changes in the direct portfolio investments held in underlying HarbourVest funds and in HarbourVest Direct Co-Investments Obtained the post-closing adjustments made by the Group related to updated information provided from the Partnership Investments to the underlying HarbourVest funds and validated that there were no material changes to the Net Asset Values subsequent to the underlying HarbourVest funds finalized financial reporting process.
The Scope of Our Audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope and the allocation of work between the audit team and internal valuation specialists.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Financial Statements.
We adopted a risk-based approach in determining our audit strategy.
This approach focuses audit effort towards the risk areas, such as investment valuations.
The audit was led from Guernsey and utilised audit team members from the Boston office of Ernst & Young LLP in the US.
We operated as an integrated audit team across the two jurisdictions and we performed audit procedures and responded to the risk identified as described above.
The Group comprises the Company and its five wholly owned subsidiaries as explained in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Company, each subsidiary and the consolidation are subject to full scope audit procedures.
Otherthanthe investments which the Company holds directly, the subsidiaries own the investments, which are setoutin the consolidated schedule of investments, and on which we performed our work on valuation.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Report of Independent Auditors continued Our Application of Materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality This is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$29.5m 2016: US$26.7m, which is 2% 2016: 2% of net assets.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
It was considered inappropriate to determine materiality based on Group profit before tax as the primary focus of the Group is the overall performance of investments held which includes a significant asset revaluation component.
We believe that net asset value provides us with an appropriate basis for audit materiality as net asset value is a key published performance measure and is a key metric used by management in assessing and reporting on the overall performance of the Group.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and noted no matters leading us to amend materiality levels from those originally determined at the audit planning stage.
Performance materiality This refers to the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$22.1m 2016: US$20.1m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our previous experience and limited identification of audit findings in previous periods.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.475m 2016: US$1.35m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
80 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial We have no exceptions to report.
Ireland and non-financial information in the annual report is: reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired inthe course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report andaccounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
The Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
Guernsey Law proper accounting records have not been kept: or 2008 the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
review the directors statement in relation to going concern, set requirements out on page 69 and longer-term viability, set out on page 70: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Report of Independent Auditors continued Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we We Have nothing material to add or Ireland haveanything material to add or to draw attention to in to draw attention to.
reporting relation to: the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
David Robert John Moore, ACA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 11 May 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
82 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Report of Independent Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited the sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Company and its subsidiaries together the Group, auditopinion.
which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Assets Opinion and Liabilities as at 31 January 2017, the Consolidated In our opinion, the financial statements referred to Statement of Operations, the Consolidated Statement of abovepresent fairly, in all material respects, the financial Changes in Net Assets, the Consolidated Statement of position of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited Cash Flows, the Consolidated Schedule of Investments at31 January 2017, and the results of its operations, and the related notes 1 to 11 to the financial statements.
changes in net assets, and its cash flows for the year Managements Responsibility for the then ended, in conformity with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair Ernst & Young LLP presentation of these financial statements in conformity Guernsey with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP : this includes the design, 11 May 2017 implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment ofthe risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Companys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to designaudit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83
