140 141 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Centamin plc Directors responsibilities The directors are also responsible for The financial statements have been audited Report on the audit of the financial Independence Key Audit Matters in respect of the annual report by the independent audit and accounting statements safeguarding the assets of the group and We remained independent of the group in The appeal before the Supreme and financial statements hence for taking reasonable steps for the firm,  LLP, who Opinion accordance with the ethical requirements Administrative Court in Egypt The directors are responsible for preparing were given unrestricted access to all prevention and detection of fraud and In our opinion, Centamin Plcs group that are relevant to our audit of the financial concerning the validity of the Sukari the annual report and the financial other irregularities.
financial records and related information, financial statements the financial statements in the UK, which includes the Concession Agreement.
statements in accordance with applicable including minutes of all shareholder, board statements : FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to The claim before the Administrative The directors are responsible for the law and regulations.
listed entities, and we have fulfilled our Court concerning diesel fuel disputes.
maintenance and integrity of the give a true and fair view of the state of other ethical responsibilities in accordance Company law requires the directors to Companys website.
Legislation in the The financial statements were approved by Amounts due to government with the groups affairs as at 31 December with these requirements.
prepare financial statements for each United Kingdom and Jersey governing the the board of directors on 31 January 2018 respect to operating and exploration 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for financial year.
Under that law the directors preparation and dissemination of financial and signed on their behalf by Andrew Our audit approach properties.
the year then ended: have prepared the group financial statements may differ from legislation in Pardey CEO and Ross Jerrard CFO.
Overview Impairment of Exploration and have been properly prepared in statements in accordance with International other jurisdictions.
Evaluation Assets in West Africa.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Overall group materiality: $9.5 million Each of the directors, whose names and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the European Union: and 2016: $6.78 million, based on 5%of Reserves and Resources Statement.
functions are listed in the directors report, The directors consider that the annual adopted by the European Union.
Under three year average of profit before tax, report and financial statements, taken as a confirm that, to the best of their have been prepared in accordance with The scope of our audit company law the directors must not after exceptional items, weighted on knowledge: the requirements of the Companies whole, is fair, balanced and understandable As part of designing our audit, we approve the group financial statements production.
and provides the information necessary for Jersey Law 1991. determined materiality and assessed the the group financial statements, which unless they are satisfied that they give a We focused our audit procedures on shareholders to assess the groups We have audited the financial statements, risks of material misstatement in the have been prepared in accordance with true and fair view of the state of affairs of performance, business model and strategy.
the Sukari Gold Mine, as well as financial statements.
In particular, we IFRSs as adopted by the European included within the Annual Report, which the group and of the profit or loss of the performing audit procedures over the comprise: the consolidated statement of looked at where the directors made The directors have undertaken a robust Union, give a true and fair view of the group for that period.
In preparing the Groups significant exploration and subjective judgements, for example in assessment of the principal risks impacting assets, liabilities, financial position and financial position as at 31 December 2017: financial statements, the directors are corporate operations.
One component the consolidated statement of respect of significant accounting estimates the Company.
The assessment identified profit of the group: and required to: and the parent entity were subject to an that involved making assumptions and strategic and operational risks at a comprehensive income, the consolidated the strategic report includes a fair select suitable accounting policies and audit of their complete financial statement of cash flows, and the considering future events that are corporate level and principal risks review of the development and then apply them consistently: information whilst a further four were inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits impacting our operations in Egypt and consolidated statement of changes in performance of the business and the subject to specific audit procedures state whether applicable IFRSs as equity for the year then ended: and the we also addressed the risk of management West Africa.
Details of the risk assessment position of the group, together with a over material balances.
Audit adopted by the European Union have override of internal controls, including can be found in the audit and risk report on notes to the financial statements, which description of the principal risks and procedures were performed in Egypt been followed, subject to any material include a description of the significant testing journals and evaluating whether pages 137 and 138 and the risk uncertainties that it faces.
departures disclosed and explained in there was evidence of bias by the directors management section on pages 34 to 37. accounting policies.
In the case of each director in office at the the financial statements: All audit work on key audit matters was that represented a risk of material Basis for opinion The board receives written assurances from date the directors report is approved: performed by the Group make judgments and accounting misstatement due to fraud.
We conducted our audit in accordance the CEO and CFO that to the best of their engagement team.
estimates that are reasonable and so far as the director is aware, there is Key audit matters knowledge and belief, the groups financial with International Standards on Auditing prudent: and no relevant audit information of which UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our Key audit matters are those matters that, in position presents a true and fair view and prepare the financial statements on the the groups auditors are unaware: and the auditors professional judgement, were that the financial statements are founded responsibilities under ISAs UK are further going concern basis unless it is they have taken all the steps that they described in the Auditors responsibilities of most significance in the audit of the on a sound system of risk management, inappropriate to presume that the ought to have taken as a director in financial statements of the current period internal compliance and control.
Further, for the audit of the financial statements group will continue in business.
order to make themselves aware of any Materiality they confirm that the groups risk section of our report.
We believe that the and include the most significant assessed relevant audit information and to The directors are responsible for keeping risks of material misstatement whether or management and internal compliance is audit evidence we have obtained is establish that the groups auditors are adequate accounting records that are operating efficiently and effectively.
The sufficient and appropriate to provide a not due to fraud identified by the auditors, aware of that information.
sufficient to show and explain the groups including those which had the greatest board recognises that internal control basis for our opinion.
Audit transactions and disclose with reasonable assurances from the CEO and CFO can Scope effect on: the overall audit strategy: the On behalf of the board: accuracy at any time the financial position allocation of resources in the audit: and only be reasonable rather than absolute, of the group and enable them to ensure and therefore they are not and cannot be directing the efforts of the engagement that the financial statements and the team.
These matters, and any comments designed to detect all weaknesses in Key Audit directors remuneration report comply with control procedures.
we make on the results of our procedures Matters The Companies Jersey Law, 1991 and, as thereon, were addressed in the context of regards the group financial statements, our audit of the financial statements as a Andrew Pardey Ross Jerrard Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, Chief executive officer Chief financial officer and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list 31 January 2018 31 January 2018 of all risks identified by our audit.
142 143 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Centamin plc KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in We discussed the legal case with the Groups legal advisors, and Impairment of Exploration and Evaluation Assets in We examined managements impairment triggers assessment for Egypt concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession considered appropriate documentation to understand the legal West Africa Exploration and Evaluation assets in West Africa.
Agreement position and the basis of the directors assessment of the outcome Refer to page 168 note 14 to the financial statements and We performed procedures to confirm that licences held by the Group of the court case.
Refer to page 172 note 22 to the financial statements and page 36 Principal risks.
We have challenged management on their future plans for page 36 Principal risks.
We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of legal the West African region.
We have corroborated these plans to future The Group has made substantial investment in its exploration counsel by considering professional qualifications, fee arrangements budgeted expenditure for the region.
We have reviewed Board reports program in West Africa in recent years.
The capitalised amount is The Group is in the process of appealing a ruling passed by the and other relevant factors.
These procedures satisfied us legal counsel and minutes to confirm ongoing exploration activity continues pending $140 million.
An impairment decision would be likely to have a Egyptian Administrative Court in October 2012. were competent, capable and objective.
decision in any future development plan.
material impact on earnings in the period.
If the ruling is upheld, the Groups operations at the Sukari site 2 We also obtained and read a copy of the Concession Agreement, as We performed procedures to identify whether any impairment As these projects are nearing a development decision there is an will be reduced to the area of 3km determined by the signed by the relevant parties.
triggers under the specific requirements of IFRS 6 had been identified increased possibility of impairment triggers being present.
Administrative Court of first instance.
This may lead to the risk of in respect of exploration and evaluation.
We did not identify any material impairment of property, plant and equipment outside of The directors assessed that the Groups case has strong legal merit and 2 impairment triggers.
the 3km area as the tailings dam spans across this boundary and will ultimately be successful.
Based on our work, we determined that the materially impacts Sukari operations.
The outcome of this case is directors had reflected all available information in their assessment.
Reserves and resources statement We reviewed the updated reserve and resource statements subject to significant uncertainty due to ongoing political, social We agreed the disclosures in note 22 to the financial statements with and performed extensive discussions with senior management Refer to page 157 note 4 to the financial statements and and economic volatility in Egypt.
the results of our audit work and determined that they were consistent and managements qualified external expert over the key page 36 Principal risks.
with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Management have updated the reserves and resources We assessed the objectivity and competence of managements expert The claim before the Administrative Court concerning diesel We discussed the legal fuel subsidy cases with the Groups legal statement as of 30 June 2017.
The statement is the key source who performed the supervision over the preparation of the statement.
fuel disputes advisors, and considered appropriate documentation to understand the of information underpinning the key areas of the audit including legal position and to evaluate the directors assessment of the outcome the carrying value of the mining assets, accounting for mine We have reviewed managements updated estimates of the carrying Refer to page 172 note 22 to the financial statements and of the case.
development properties, the depreciation charge and the asset value of the mining assets, accounting for the mine development page 36 Principal risks.
properties, the updated depreciation charge estimates and the asset We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of counsel, by The Group is involved in an ongoing legal case relating to requirement obligations.
considering professional qualifications, fee arrangements and other historical and current fuel subsidies.
The potential amount that relevant factors.
We agreed the disclosures in the notes 4 and 28 to the financial could be recouped by the Group relating to the current subsidy statements with the results of our audit work and determined that they case is $274 million and the potential amount that the Group These procedures satisfied us internal and external legal counsel were were consistent with the requirements of IFRS as adopted by the could have to pay if they lose the historical case is EGP403 million competent, capable and objective.
approximately $22.7 million at the exchange rate as at The results of the procedures we performed, as described above, 31 December 2017. supported the directors accounting treatment, under which no liability How we tailored the audit scope in Alexandria and Jersey.
During these Rationale for We used the profit To date, the Group has not provided for the historical case, based was recognised in respect of the historical case and no asset was visits, we observed and discussed mining benchmark before tax after on internal and external assessments of the merits of the case, recognised in respect of the current subsidy case.
We tailored the scope of our audit to operations with local management and applied exceptional items PBTAEI but has made disclosure of a contingent liability.
ensure that we performed enough work to We also considered the sufficiency of the disclosure regarding the met with the Groups external incountry benchmark and took a be able to give an opinion on the financial The Group has disclosed the impact of the current subsidy case, case and found that it was consistent with the requirements of IFRSs legal counsel in Cairo.
threeyear weighted statements as a whole, taking into account being the difference between international and subsidised diesel as adopted by the European Union and gave a balanced description average based on the structure of the group, the accounting price that has impacted the Groups results for the year, in note of the case.
Furthermore, we performed work over the production volumes since 22 to the financial statements.
No contingent asset has been processes and controls, and the industry in consolidation of the Groups components the large increase in recognised.
and significant head office and production following the consolidation adjustments.
Centamin plc is listed on the London Stock Amounts due to government with respect to operating and With regards to amounts owed to EMRA, we held discussions with upgrade of the Sukari Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
exploration properties management regarding their calculation of the amount due and Materiality Plant.
A threeyear For compliance with Toronto Stock obtained the calculation.
Refer to page 160 note 7 to the financial statements and The scope of our audit was influenced by weighted average of Exchange regulations and Canadian page 34 Principal risks.
We agreed the amounts in the calculation to source documentation and our application of materiality.
We set PBTAEI also allows for statutory requirements, the group where elements of the calculation were subject to uncertainty, we tested certain quantitative thresholds for volatility of gold price The Group operates across a number of jurisdictions and, like produces separate financial statements.
managements assessment of the probable amount of the liability to materiality.
These, together with qualitative most groups, is subject to periodic challenges by the government which is out of We provide a separate auditors report on satisfy ourselves that amounts due to government had been considerations, helped us to determine the on amounts owed with respect to the Sukari operations in Egypt managements control.
Where management had obtained scope of our audit and the nature, timing and the exploration properties in West Africa.
We chose PBTAEI as it is independent legal or expert advice, we obtained that advice and and extent of our audit procedures on the The Groups principal operation is the the key indicator of the The amounts owed to EMRA with respect to the profit sharing evaluated the competency of the experts involved to assess the individual financial statement line items Sukari Gold mine in Egypt.
Production financial performance of arrangement under the Concession Agreement are based on key assumptions.
and disclosures and in evaluating the effect continues at high levels and this together the group.
managements best judgement of the probable amount of the We also performed procedures to ensure the completeness of amounts of misstatements, both individually and in with the positive impact on profitability of profit share liability.
For each component in the scope of our due to government, with no material unrecorded amounts identified.
aggregate on the financial statements as a gold prices set the context for our audit in As at 31 December 2017 the Group has an expense of group audit, we allocated a materiality that whole.
We also considered the sufficiency of the disclosure regarding the 2017.
In addition to the operation of Sukari $112.6 million and a net payable of $5 million as the result of is less than our overall group materiality.
case and found that it was consistent with the requirements of IFRSs the Group continues its exploration profit sharing and cost recovery mechanisms under the Based on our professional judgement, we The range of materiality allocated across as adopted by the European Union and gave a balanced description programs in Burkina Faso and Cte Concession Agreement, which we considered merited our focus.
determined materiality for the financial components was $8.2 million to $3 million.
statements as a whole as follows: Amounts owed to the government in Burkina Faso and We agreed with the Audit Committee that Cte dIvoire were not material during the year: however the Our group audit scope focused primarily Overall group $9.5 million we would report to them misstatements risk of uncertainty due to payments owed to the government on the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, the materiality 2016: $6.78 million.
identified during our audit above $475,000 will increase as exploration continues.
groups principal operation, which was 2016: $338,000 as well as misstatements How we 5% of three year subject to a fullscope audit.
Specific audit below that amount that, in our view, determined it average of profit procedures were performed over material warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
before tax, after balances relating to the groups exploration exceptional items, and corporate activities.
We visited the weighted on production.
Sukari mine and conducted audit fieldwork 144 145 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Centamin plc Going concern Opinions on additional disclosures Responsibilities for the financial A further description of our responsibilities statements and the audit Directors Remuneration Report for the audit of the financial statements is In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Responsibilities of the directors for the located on the FRCs website at: www.
The company voluntarily prepares a REPORTING OBLIGATION OUTCOME financial statements org.
This Directors Remuneration Report in As explained more fully in the Directors description forms part of our auditors We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with the provisions of the Responsibilities Statement set out on page draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the report.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be Companies Act 2006.
The directors have financial statements about whether the directors considered it 140, the directors are responsible for the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups requested that we audit the part of the Use of this report appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparation of the financial statements in ability to continue as a going concern.
Directors Remuneration Report specified This report, including the opinions, has preparing the financial statements and the directors accordance with the applicable framework by the United Kingdom Companies Act been prepared for and only for the parent identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability and for being satisfied that they give a true 2006 Companies Act 2006 to be companys members as a body in to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve and fair view.
The directors are also audited as if the company were a UK accordance with Article 113A of the months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
responsible for such internal control as they quoted company.
Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no determine is necessary to enable the We are required to report if the directors statement We have nothing to report.
We do not, in giving these In our opinion, the part of the Directors preparation of financial statements that are relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule opinions, accept or assume responsibility Remuneration Report to be audited has free from material misstatement, whether 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge for any other purpose or to any other been properly prepared in accordance with due to fraud or error.
person to whom this report is shown or into the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing the financial statements, the whose hands it may come save where Corporate Governance Statement directors are responsible for assessing the expressly agreed by our prior consent The company prepares a corporate groups ability to continue as a going in writing.
governance statement that includes the Reporting on other information concern, disclosing as applicable, matters Other required reporting information with respect to internal control The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors related to going concern and using the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and risk management systems and about report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the going concern basis of accounting unless exception reporting share capital structures required by the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this the directors either intend to liquidate the Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of report, any form of assurance thereon.
group or to cease operations, or have no we are required to report to you if, in our the Financial Conduct Authority.
The realistic alternative but to do so.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider opinion we have not received all the directors have requested that we report on whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or Auditors responsibilities for the audit information and explanations we require the consistency of that information with the of the financial statements otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are for our audit.
We have no exceptions to financial statements.
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material Our objectives are to obtain reasonable report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion, the information given in the misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement assurance about whether the financial Corporate Governance Statement set out of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
statements as a whole are free from on pages 137 and 138, as well as page 84, material misstatement, whether due to Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of with respect to internal control and risk fraud or error, and to issue an auditors the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs management systems and about share report that includes our opinion.
Richard Spilsbury UK unless otherwise stated.
capital structures is consistent with the Reasonable assurance is a high level of for and on behalf of financial statements.
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an  LLP The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity audit conducted in accordance with ISAs of the group Chartered Accountants and Recognised UK will always detect a material We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Auditors misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements The directors confirmation on page 140 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing London can arise from fraud or error and are the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
considered material if, individually or in the 31 January 2018 The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
aggregate, they could reasonably be The directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period expected to influence the economic they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable decisions of users taken on the basis of expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, these financial statements.
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 140, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 131 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
