INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IWG PLC The key audit matter OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM There is a risk that the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill OUR AUDIT and intangible assets will be more than the estimated recoverable 1.
Our opinion is unmodified amount, if future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IWG plc Groups investment.
This could occur if forecasted cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the decline in certain markets or where revenue and costs are subject consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement to significant fluctuations.
The recoverability of goodwill is spread of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the across multiple geographies and economies, and is dependent on consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated individual businesses acquired achieving or sustaining sufficient cash flow statement and the related accounting policies and notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We focus on this area due to the inherent uncertainty involved preparation is Jersey Law and International Financial Reporting in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, particularly in Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
projected revenue growth, which forms the basis of the assessment In our opinion: of recoverability.
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of How the matter was addressed in our audit the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, assessing December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Groups impairment model for each group of CGUs and the consolidated financial statements have been properly evaluating the assumptions used by the Group in the model, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting specifically the cash flow projections, perpetuity rates and Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and discount rates.
We considered the historical accuracy of the consolidated financial statements have been properly the Groups forecasts.
We obtained and documented our prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies understanding of the impairment testing process and tested Jersey Law 1991. the design and implementation of the relevant controls therein.
We used valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the Basis for opinion judgements and methodologies used by the Group, in particular We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards those relating to the discount rate used to determine the present on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are value of the cash flow projections.
further described in the Auditors Responsibilities section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, to ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial externally derived data and performed our own assessment in statements in Jersey, together with the International Ethics relation to key model inputs.
We checked the mathematical Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional accuracy of the model.
We examined the sensitivity analysis Accountants IESBA Code and we have fulfilled our other ethical performed by Group management and performed our own responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions.
We also compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows to the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient market capitalization of the Group to assess whether the projected and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We also assessed whether the 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of disclosures as set out in Note 12 were appropriate and in material misstatement compliance with IAS 36.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional As a result of our work, noting that no impairments were identified judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial by the Group, we found that these judgements were supported by statements and include the most significant assessed risks of reasonable assumptions.
We found the disclosures to be adequate.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall Taxation current tax liabilities of 21.6m 2016: 17.7m : audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing deferred tax assets of 23.0m 2016: 29.3m and the efforts of the engagement team.
deferred tax liabilities of 1.3m 2016: 2.4m Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee, page 90 These matters were addressed, and our results are based on accounting policy and Note 9 to the Group Financial Statements.
procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and The key audit matter in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on As a result, the tax charge on profits is determined according to a these matters.
variety of complex tax laws and regulations.
The Group encounters In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, challenges by tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the in decreasing order of significance, were as follows: normal course of business and recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes Goodwill and intangible assets of 712.1m will be due.
The calculation of these liabilities is underpinned by 2016: 738.1m judgemental assumptions as the ultimate tax determination is Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee, page 88 uncertain.
The related deferred tax assets and liabilities require accounting policy and Notes 12 and 13 to the Group judgement in determining the amounts to be recognized with Financial Statements.
consideration to the timing and level of future taxable income.
76, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Separately, the Group has incurred historic trading losses in certain those in relation to the significant risks above, on those jurisdictions and acquisitions made may include complex tax transactions and balances accounted for at Group and operating aspects.
As a consequence, the Groups current and deferred tax unit level.
In determining those components in the Group to which balances are sensitive to assumptions used in determining the we perform audit procedures, we considered the relevant size and appropriate liabilities and assets.
risk profile of the components.
In relation to the Groups operating units, audits for Group reporting How the matter was addressed in our audit purposes were performed at identified key reporting components, Our approach to the audit of taxation is underpinned by the augmented by risk focused audit procedures which were inclusion of KPMG international and domestic taxation specialists in performed for certain other components.
These audits covered the Group audit team.
These specialists evaluate the assumptions 80% of total Group revenue, 80% of Group total assets and and methodologies used by the Group and its taxation advisors, in 83% of Group profit before taxation.
calculating the taxation provisions for the period.
Particular focus is placed on assumptions relating to provisions for uncertain tax The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed assets.
We obtained and documented our understanding of the above and the information to be reported back.
Planning meetings taxation process and tested the design and implementation of were held with component auditors in order to assess the key audit the relevant controls therein.
risks, audit strategy and work to be undertaken.
The Group audit team approved the materiality of each of the components, which We specifically considered the taxation risks arising from the ranged from 3m to 8m, having regard to the mix of size and risk Groups operations when assessing the accounting for taxation profile of the Group across the components.
related balances and applied sensitivity analysis to determine the appropriateness of key judgements.
We assessed the recoverability Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors in all of these of deferred tax assets, which involved assessing the assumptions in identified locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit relation to the utilisation of losses carried forward against projected areas to be covered by these audits which included the relevant taxable profits.
risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported to the Group audit team.
We also considered whether the recognition of additional deferred Senior members of the Group audit team, including the lead tax assets would be appropriate.
We assessed the presentation engagement partner, attended each component audit closing and disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 and IAS 12 in respect meeting via telephone conferencing facilities, at which the results of taxation related balances and considered whether the Groups of component audits were discussed with divisional and Group disclosures reflected the risks inherent in the accounting for the management.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the taxation balances.
Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further We found that the Groups estimates of the amounts recognised as work required by the Group audit team was then performed by tax liabilities and deferred tax assets to be appropriate and that the the component auditor.
The Group audit team interacted with disclosures provide an adequate description of the assumptions the component teams where appropriate during various stages and estimates made by the Group, sensitivity to changes thereon of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible and the current status of material, uncertain tax positions.
for the scope and direction of the audit process.
Our application of materiality and an overview of with the additional procedures performed at Group level, the scope of our audit gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group The materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole financial statements.
was set at 10 million, which is 0.4% of total revenue and 6.7% of 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern profit before tax from continuing operations.
We have determined, We are required to report to you if: in our professional judgement, that these benchmarks are two of we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation the principal benchmarks within the financial statements relevant to the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements to members of the company in assessing financial performance.
on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no For certain account balances including goodwill, intangible assets, material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the bank loans, share based payments, related party transactions Groups use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months and taxation, we applied materiality of 7.5 million, or 5% of from the date of approval of the financial statements: or pre-tax profit, as we believe a misstatement of amounts less if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could 54 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
be reasonably expected to influence a members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report corrected and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with in the Annual Report a value in excess of 0.5 million.
We also agreed to report other The directors are responsible for the other information presented in audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
on the financial statements does not cover the other information The structure of the Groups finance function is such that certain and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as transactions and balances are accounted for by central Group explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
finance teams, with the remainder accounted for in the operating units.
We performed comprehensive audit procedures, including 77 Independent auditors report to the members of IWG plc continued Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing The financial statements are not in agreement with the so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, accounting records: or the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with We have not received all the information and explanations the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on we require for our audit.
that work we have not identified material misstatements in the 7.
Directors responsibilities Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 75, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair attention to in relation to: view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and the preparation of financial statements that are free from material explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, the directors confirmation within the viability statement matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and Auditors responsibilities the directors explanation in the viability statement of how Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, they have done so and why they considered that period to be whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, Other Corporate governance disclosures they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic We are required to address the following items and report to you decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
in the following circumstances: Further details relating to our work as auditor is set out in the Scope Fair, balanced and understandable: if we have identified material of Responsibilities Statement contained in the appendix to this inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our report, which is to be read as an integral part of our report.
financial statements audit and the directors statement that they 8.
The purpose of our audit and to whom we owe our consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as responsibilities a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. position and performance, business model and strategy: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Report of the Audit Committee: if the section of the annual Companys members those matters we are required to state to them report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent appropriately address matters communicated by us to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Audit Committee: or anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for Statement of compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code: if our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the directors statement does not properly disclose a departure from provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
CLIONA MULLEN, We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on KPMG which we are required to report by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 by exception Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to 6 March 2018 you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: Returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: 78, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendix to the Independent Auditors Report Further information regarding the scope of our responsibilities as auditor As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of managements use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
