Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Riverstone Energy Limited Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 the Directors confirmation set out on pages 38 and 39 Opinion in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust We have audited the Financial Statements of Riverstone assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, Energy Limited the Company for the year ended including those that would threaten its business model, 31 December 2017 which comprise the Statement of future performance, solvency or liquidity: Financial Position, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Directors statement set out on page 31 in the the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Statements about whether they considered Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 15, including a it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial accounting in preparing them, and their identification reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to is applicable law and International Financial Reporting continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: In our opinion, the Financial Statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys concern required under the Listing Rules is materially affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or year then ended: the Directors explanation set out on pages 29 and 30 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS: and in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done have been properly prepared in accordance with the so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to Basis for opinion continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any We conducted our audit in accordance with International related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable qualifications or assumptions.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report below.
We are Overview of our audit approach independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Risk of material misstatement: Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard We have determined that misstatement or manipulation of as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other the valuation of the Companys investment in the Partnership ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
is the only risk of material misstatement for the current year.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Audit scope: We have audited the Financial Statements of Riverstone Use of our report Energy Limited for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, The audit was led from Guernsey.
The audit team mainly as a body, in accordance with Article 262 of the Companies included individuals from the Guernsey office of Ernst & Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken Young LLP and from the New York office of Ernst & Young LLP so that we might state to the Companys members those in the U. S. and utilised oil and gas industry valuation experts matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report from the Houston office of Ernst & Young LLP in the U. S. and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We operated as an integrated audit team and we performed we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than audit procedures and responded to the risks identified as the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our described below.
The audit partner and senior members of audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the engagement team from the Guernsey office, together with members of the team from New York and valuation experts from Houston, visited the Investment Managers Conclusions relating to principal risks, offices in New York and held discussions with, and assessed the work performed by, management at the Investment going concern and viability statement Manager who were responsible for valuing the investments We have nothing to report in respect of the following held through the Partnership.
information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have Materiality: anything material to add or draw attention to: Overall materiality of $35 million 2016: $34 million, which the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 38 is approximately 2 per cent.
and 39 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Riverstone Energy Limited continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Misstatement or manipulation We confirmed our understanding of the key controls, processes, We reported to the of the valuation of the policies and methodologies used by the Investment Manager Audit Committee Companys investment in the for valuing level three investments held by the Partnership, and that we did not Partnership $1,742 million: the processes used by the Board to review these valuations.
identify any material 2016 $1,695 million We assessed whether such valuations had been done in instances of uses accordance with IFRS and the Companys accounting policies.
of inappropriate The fair value of the Companys methodologies and investment in the Partnership We selected all level three underlying investments for testing.
that the valuation is based on the Net Asset Value This sample is more extensive than the sample required by our of the Companys of the Partnership which, in methodology but we extended the sample size at the request of investment in the turn, is based on the fair values the Audit Committee.
Partnership was not of its net assets including the We engaged our own internal oil and gas industry valuation materially misstated.
underlying investments held by experts to: the Partnership through the We also investing structure.
Most of the a use their knowledge of the market to assess and corroborate reported to the underlying investments, which managements market-related judgements and valuation Audit Committee are primarily in early stage metrics including discount rates, current and future oil and that there were no exploration and production gas prices, valuation multiples and recent relevant transaction material matters companies in the oil and gas data by reference to our experts knowledge of comparable arising from our industry, are level three transactions, to independently compiled databases indices and audit work on investments as defined in the to information reported by comparable public companies: the valuation of IFRS hierarchy.
Valuing such the Companys b assist us to determine whether the methodologies used to investments requires significant investment in the value investments were in accordance with methods, judgement and estimation as Partnership that we particularly those specific to the oil and gas industry, usually explained in note 3 to the wished to bring to used by market participants: and Financial Statements and in the attention of the the Audit Committee Report c assist us to determine whether appropriate judgements Audit Committee.
It also requires had been applied in selecting point estimates from the significant industry expertise.
range of reasonable estimates indicated by different valuation techniques.
The fair values of underlying investments may be misstated We agreed significant valuation inputs used by management or manipulated by applying including production and acreage data, EBITDA and other inappropriate valuation financial performance measures to information from underlying methodologies or metrics or investees and we tested the arithmetical accuracy of the by using inappropriate inputs valuation calculations.
We engaged our own tax professionals to assess whether the The fair values may also be mechanisms in place for capturing the tax effects of realised misstated or manipulated by and unrealised gains reflected the likely tax outcomes and their selecting inappropriate values effect on fair value.
from the range of reasonable values indicated by different We checked that the General Partner performance allocation valuation techniques.
calculation had been performed in accordance with the terms of the agreement and that the calculation correctly reflected both There is also a risk that realised and unrealised gains.
proper adjustments are not made in the fair value calculations We assessed the Companys analysis of whether the fair value for the effects that tax and of its investment in the Partnership was equivalent to the General Partner performance Net Asset Value of the Partnership by testing whether the allocation will have on realised data used in the analysis was appropriate and relevant and and unrealised gains of had been appropriately extracted from independent sources.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Reporting threshold An overview of the scope of our audit Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified Tailoring the scope misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would and our allocation of performance materiality determine our report to them all audit differences in excess of $1.8 million audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an 2016: $1.7 million which is set at 5 per cent.
of planning opinion on the Financial Statements.
We take into account materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against the business environment when assessing the level of work both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations the audit engagement team.
Our application of materiality Other information We apply the concept of materiality in planning and The other information comprises the information included performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 42, other than misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Materiality Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover Materiality is the magnitude of omissions or misstatements the other information and, except to the extent otherwise that, individually or in aggregate, could reasonably be expected explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form to influence the economic decisions of the users of the of assurance conclusion thereon.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in We determined planning materiality for the Company to doing so, consider whether the other information is materially be $35 million 2016: $34 million, which is approximately inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge 2 per cent.
This provided a obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk apparent material misstatements, we are required to of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing determine whether there is a material misstatement in the and extent of further audit procedures.
We used equity as Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the a basis for determining planning materiality because the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, Companys primary performance measures for internal and we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the external reporting are based on equity.
other information, we are required to report that fact.
Performance materiality We have nothing to report in this regard.
Performance materiality is the application of materiality at In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to our responsibility to specifically address the following to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the items in the other information and to report as uncorrected aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements material misstatements of the other information where we exceeds materiality.
conclude that those items meet the following conditions: On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 32 assessment of the Companys overall control environment, the statement given by the Directors that they consider our judgement was that overall performance materiality the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides or balance for the Company should be 75 per cent.
of the information necessary for Shareholders to assess materiality, namely $26.25 million 2016: 75 per cent.
of the Companys performance, business model and materiality, namely $25.5 million.
Our objective in adopting strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and obtained in the audit: or undetected audit differences in the Financial Statements did not exceed our materiality level.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Riverstone Energy Limited continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Audit committee reporting set out on pages 40 to 42 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the section describing the work of the audit committee the Financial Statements does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee is materially inconsistent Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to Directors statement of compliance with the UK issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable Corporate Governance Code set out on page 32 the assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee parts of the Directors statement required under the that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are specified for review by the auditor in accordance with considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a they could reasonably be expected to influence the departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Governance Code.
A further description of our responsibilities for Matters on which we are required to report the audit of the Financial Statements is located on by exception the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters description forms part of our auditors report.
in relation to which the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the Companys accounting records and returns: or Michael Bane we have not received all the information and explanations For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP we require for our audit.
Guernsey 27 February 2018 Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the sole responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
