International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED OPINION In our opinion: - International Public Partnerships Limited the Group financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: - The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and - The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED We have audited the financial statements of International Public Partnerships Limited the Group which comprise: - Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017: - Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: - Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017: - Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2017: and - Related notes 1 to 21 to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: - the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 31 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: - the Directors confirmation set out on page 32 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: - the Directors statement set out on page 64 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: - whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or 65 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED CONTINUED - the Directors explanation set out on page 40 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters - Misstatement or manipulation of investment fair value - Revenue recognition Audit scope - We performed an audit of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 - The Company has determined that it is an investment entity under the requirements of IFRS 10 amendments for Investment Entities IFRS 10 amendments and therefore only consolidates service entities as explained in note 2 of the financial statements.
Service entities are audited to Group materiality threshold.
- All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 20.4million 2016: 16 million which represents 1% 2016: 1% of Equity KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Misstatement or manipulation of investment fair value 2,005 million 2016: 1,515 million Investments comprise a portfolio of assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair values of these investments are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at a rate appropriate to the risk profile of each investment.
In determining the discount rate, the relevant long-term government bond yields, specific investment risks and the evidence of recent transactions are considered.
Details of the valuation process and key sensitivities are provided in note 11 of the financial statements and are discussed in the report of the Audit Committee on page 59.
The valuation risk includes the risk of an inappropriate valuation model being applied, the risk of manipulation or error in both the assumptions applied and the amount and timing of expected cash flows.
66 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED CONTINUED Our response to the risk We have tested the effectiveness of controls in operation over the investment acquisitions, forecasting cash flows, distributions and model integrity and we have placed reliance on control over these processes.
We selected a sample of investments to provide coverage over the key geographies the Group operates in and to address significant variable cash flow risk.
The following procedures were performed: Valuation assumption: We have been supported in our testing of macroeconomic inputs and discount rates inputs by specialists from our EY Valuation & Business Modelling team EYVBM.
Model integrity: We engaged our EYVBM specialists to sample test the following on selected models: - The year on year changes to the logical operation: and - Management controls including managements use of third party audits of the initial model and analysis of yields.
Model inputs: We agreed a sample of contractual cash flows to contractual terms and actual cashflows.
We engaged KPMG to perform this work for a part of our sample.
We engaged EYVBM specialists to assess the assumptions used to determine the underlying variable cash flows which require significant judgment.
Their assessments were based on a combination of market data and experience of valuing other similar investments.
Verification of existence and ownership of Investments: We have tested the ownership of investments to ensure the Group is entitled to distributions from the investments.
Our response to the risk We performed the following procedures across the remainder of the portfolio: continued - We compare the discount rates used by management across all investments to the relevant rates as tested by the EYVBM team.
- We have performed a detailed analytical review based on year on year movement on each investment, setting detailed expectations and validating significant variances from expectation.
- We tested the historical accuracy of forecasting by comparing the historical forecast distributions from the projects to the actual distributions.
- We tested all acquisitions during the year.
- We tested that the macroeconomic assumptions inflation rates, foreign exchange rates, deposit rates and tax rates were applied consistently across all investments.
Market Review: We engaged EYVBM team to provide benchmarking information on the variable components e. g. inflation rates, risk free rates, deposit rates etc.
Key Observations We confirmed that there were no material matters arising from our audit work that we wished to bring communicated to the Audit to the attention of the Audit Committee.
Committee We confirmed that the valuation of the investments was not materially misstated and was in line with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Risk Revenue recognition Notwithstanding there is no revenue reported, we treat dividend and interest income as revenue and as it is material we have considered revenue recognition as a significant risk.
Management may seek to overstate revenue as a result of seeking to report the desired level of return to investors.
Our response to the risk We updated our understanding of the Groups processes and policies for revenue recognition including our understanding of the systems and controls implemented.
We agreed a representative sample of dividend and interest receipts to documentation from unconsolidated subsidiaries and we checked the calculation of interest amounts and the allocation thereof to the appropriate period.
We have performed cut off and completeness testing to conclude on accuracy.
67 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED CONTINUED Key Observations We confirmed that there were no matters identified during our audit work that we wanted to bring to communicated to the Audit the attention of the Audit Committee.
Committee AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company consolidated service entities as explained in note 2 of the financial statements.
All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertake by the Group audit team.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 20.4 million 2016: 16 million, which is 1% 2016: 1% of equity.
We believe that total equity provides us with an appropriate basis for audit materiality as net asset value is a key published performance measure and is a key metric used by management in assessing and reporting on the overall performance of the Group.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and noted that total equity had increased from approx.
1,953 million at 30 June 2017 to 2,038 million as at 31 December 2017 mainly due to capital raise in December 2017.
This resulted in a higher materiality of 20.4 million compared to 19.5 million that was originally determined at the audit planning stage.
A lower materiality of 2.8 million 2016: 2.2 million has been applied to interest income, Dividend income and related party fees to be responsive to the expectations of the users of the financial statements with regard to misstatements in these balances of a lesser amount than the Group materiality.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of materiality, namely 15.3 million 2016: 50% of materiality, namely 8 million.
We have set performance materiality based on our understanding of the entity and the past history of no misstatements corrected and uncorrected.
REPORTING THRESHOLD Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1 million 2016: 0.8 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
68 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: - Fair, balanced and understandable statement set out on page 59 by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or - Audit Committee reporting set out on page 58: or - Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 48 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: - proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - the financial statements are not in agreement with the Companys accounting records and returns: or - We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 64, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
69 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED CONTINUED AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Richard Le Tissier for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Guernsey Channel Islands 20 March 2018 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the International Public Partnerships Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
