Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Summary of our audit approach Opinion Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current In our opinion the consolidated financial statements of Shire matters yearwere: plc the Company and subsidiaries together the Group : The valuation of the CINRYZE intangible asset, specifically considering the potential impairment give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs indicator associated with the new market entrants: as at December 31, 2017 and of the Groups profit for the Managements estimation of rebates against revenue year then ended: as a result of contractual and regulatory requirements have been properly prepared in accordance with for certain products in the United States: and accounting principles generally accepted in the United The pervasive risk associated with the large levels States of America: and ofchange at Shire.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. with and any key audit matters which are the same as The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $250 the consolidated balance sheet: million which was determined following the consideration the consolidated statement of operations: of a number different benchmarks including normalised the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: profit before tax.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity: Scoping Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the U. S. the consolidated statement of cash flows: and European manufacturing sites, key European operating the related notes 1 to 30. entities within the UK, Ireland, France, Germany and Italy, European royalty and research focused entities as well as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the key UK, U. S. Swiss and Jersey head office entities.
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law Significant As a consequence of the acquisition of Baxalta in the prior andaccounting principles generally accepted in the United States changes in year, and the resulting increase in revenues, the materiality of America.
our approach has increased significantly in the current year and new Basis for opinion components have been included in our audit scope for thefirst time.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
The key audit matters included in our audit report reflect Ourresponsibilities under those standards are further described the nature of the Group post acquisition, with two new inthe auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial reported key audit matters being the CINRYZE impairment statements section of our report.
risk and a pervasive risk of change identified in the current year.
The key audit matter associated with gross-to-net We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance revenue in the U. S. is consistent with that of the prior year with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the and continues to be pertinent to the overall audit.
financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Two key audit matters in the prior year related to Shires Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest acquisitions of Baxalta and Dyax.
No such significant entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities business combinations have occurred this year and inaccordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the accordingly they are not key audit matters in 2017. non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard werenot provided to the Group or the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
114 Shire Annual Report 2017 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks the directors explanation on page 69 as to how they have andviability statement assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they Going concern have done so and why they consider that period to be We have reviewed the directors statement contained within the appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Corporate Governance Report on page 60 about whether they reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the We are also required to report whether the directors statement financial statements.
relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule We are required to state whether we have anything material to add 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing inthe audit.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
ordraw attention to in respect of these matters.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or Key audit matters draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, Principal risks and viability statement were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering current period and include the most significant assessed risks of whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups ability to overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we directing the efforts of the engagement team.
have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the the disclosures on pages 18 to 21 that describe the principal financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
the directors confirmation on page 113 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key Key observations audit matter CINRYZE impairment indicator A description of the significant accounting policy for In order to assess the valuation of the CINRYZE We found managements estimates and impairment of intangible assets is included at Note intangible asset, we have performed the following judgments to be reasonable and balanced.
2 and the Groups critical accounting estimate for specific procedures: Wedid not identify an unrecorded impairment valuation of intangible assets, including IPR&D, is inrespect of CINRYZE and found managements Independently assessing the design and included at Note 3. disclosures of the impairment indicators to be implementation, and testing the operating proportionate.
Management identified an impairment trigger in Q2 effectiveness, of the Groups relevant financial 2017 with respect to the CINRYZE intangible asset controls: following the positive trial results related to Shires Obtaining and assessing third party data such own subcutaneous HAE product and the approval as market analyst reports and other available of HAEGARDA a product launched by CSL Behring evidence and using it to challenge LLC, which are expected to impact CINRYZEs managements judgments: future market share and forecast cash flows.
Assessing managements historical forecasting accuracy: and We identified a risk that forecasted cash flows Assessing the market experts engaged by associated with the asset may result in an management, including their expertise and unrecorded impairment.
In particular, that competence, and challenging them in respect inappropriate market share assumptions may result ofmanagements assumed market share.
in a required impairment not being recorded.
We consider the risk around market share changes to be a key audit matter due to the size of the CINRYZE intangible asset balance December 31, 2017 net carrying value of $1.6bn, the headroom included in managements calculations and the subjectivity of judgments required when performing the impairment analysis.
The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committees the ACR Committee consideration of this key audit matter is included on page 71.
The estimation of rebates against revenue as a result of contractual and regulatory requirements in the United States Shire Annual Report 2017 115 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key Key observations audit matter A description of the key accounting policy for sales We have considered the Groups processes for Shire has a well established process for deductions is included at Note 3 and the Groups making judgments in this area and performed the determining gross to net adjustments in the U. S. critical accounting policy and estimate in relation to following procedures: and have largely integrated the legacy Baxalta the level of rebates and other sales deductions is processes into it.
Assessed the appropriateness of the process, setout at Note 3.
Management monitor their historical accuracy including tests of the design, implementation The directors are required to make certain with the largest variance in the last 12 quarters and operating effectiveness of controls adopted judgments in respect of the level of rebates and being $12.6 million.
by management in determining the accounting other sales deductions that will be realised against for rebates and other sales deductions: Management utilised a range of data to determine the Groups sales.
Challenged the information used by the key assumptions associated with the management in estimating gross to net accruals The largest of these judgments relate to rebates for calculation including data from 3rd party partners, by vouching to external source data such as Medicaid and Managed Care programs, for which market survey information as well as historical wholesaler inventory levels and market demand the Group held accrued rebates as at December results.
Based on the procedures performed we surveys : 31, 2017 of $1,613 million 2016: $1,431 million found these assumptions to be balanced.
Conducted trend analysis and used this to in aggregate.
Due to the nature of the Groups challenge whether managements assumptions We concluded that the accrual value has been products the risk is primarily focused on the were appropriate: and appropriately recorded.
Neuroscience operations in the USA.
Recomputed key calculations within The key elements of the judgments relating to managements estimates.
Medicaid and Managed Care rebates include: We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure The proportion of the inventory pipeline that of the transactions within the Groups financial willattract specific rebates: and statements.
The future value of rebate per unit expected tobe applicable.
We identified a risk that these judgments are not appropriate and, as a result, rebate liabilities and sales deductions are recorded at an incorrect level.
There is a significant track record of actual rebate levels which informs our assessment of the level of risk of material misstatement.
Nevertheless due to the manual nature and extent of the accounting process in this area it forms a significant part of our audit effort and requires a notable level of resource within the audit engagement and is thus a key audit matter.
The ACR Committees consideration of this key audit matter is included on page 71.
Pervasive risk of change 116 Shire Annual Report 2017 Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key Key observations audit matter Shire has undergone a significant period of We have considered managements response to the We found managements response to the organisational change driven in particular by the increased risk and performed the following specific increased risk to be appropriate and no further integration of the Baxalta business.
Some of the procedures: findings have arisen as a result of our specific keychanges include: focus in this area.
Assessed and tested managements change Establishing the new Corporate Services management process for each key area of accounting centre in Dublin, moving key financial change: processes from Shires financial operations team increased the testing of key internal controls in Basingstoke and from Baxters shared service inareas of particularly significant change: and centre in Dublin, provided under TSA increased the level of our substantive testing in arrangements, to a newlyestablised team: areas with the most significant levels of change.
Moving legacy Baxalta financial processes We also performed the following procedures to previously performed in Costa Rica under address management override of controls: TSAagreements with Baxter into the Exton Corporate Services team: Tested the appropriateness of, and rationale for, The integration of the legacy Baxalta journal entries that had potentially fraudulent consolidation into the Shire consolidation characteristics: process: Reviewed accounting estimates for bias Changes in senior management including theCFO: including evaluating both individually and The ongoing integration of significant functions, collectively the impact on the financial including technical operations, resulting in, statements: and forexample, the movement of key financial Evaluated the business rationale for significant responsibilities to new individuals and the transactions outside the normal course of announced network study in relation to Shires business or that otherwise appeared unusual.
global manufacturing footprint: and The integration of Shire and Baxala legal entities.
These changes in 2017 follow previous years of significant change including major acquisitions and the One Shire program.
The level of change in the current year, and cumulatively, creates a risk that key financial processes may fail to operate effectively.
In addition to the risk described above, there is also a risk related to management being in a position to perpetrate fraud because of managements ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
Shire Annual Report 2017 117 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
We use materiality both in planning the Shire has one reporting unit, one segment and is managed on a scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
However the results are reported, and consolidated, Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality on an entity by entity basis rather than within functional areas.
We forthe financial statements as a whole as follows: have determined that each entity is a separate component for scoping purposes.
Group materiality $250 million 2016: $150 million In order to determine the significant components we quantitatively Basis for The materiality was determined following the consideration assessed the proportion of key balances including revenue, inventory determining of a number of different benchmarks, including revenue, and fixed assets included in different components as these are the materiality Non GAAP EBITDA, Non GAAP net income, normalised key balances that drive significance of the components.
profit before tax and total assets.
Our selected materiality is based on a blend of these measures.
We also considered qualitative factors that would impact the level Normalised profit before tax has been adjusted by removing ofrisk in certain components.
the impact of non-recurring items such as the $733 million From this assessment we focused our group audit scope primarily unwind of the fair value uplift associated with the Baxalta onthe U. S. European manufacturing sites, key European operating inventory acquired and the acquisition and integration costs of $764 million directly associated with the Baxalta entities within the UK, Ireland, France, Germany and Italy, European acquisition.
In 2016, materiality was determined on the royalty and research focused entities as well as key UK, U. S. Swiss basis of 6% of normalised pre-tax profit.
and Jersey head office entities.
Rationale for We have considered a number of different benchmarks as These locations represent the principal operations and together with the benchmark highlighted below, in light of differing views of investors, the group functions in scope account for 95% 2016: 96% of the applied analysts and other users of the accounts.
Groups total assets and 80% 2016: 86% of the Groups revenues.
In addition we have considered the impact of unusual one off events and the significant acquisitions in recent years They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for on some of the metrics and thus determined a blended undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement benchmark is most appropriate.
Our audit work at the individual locations was Benchmark Materiality as a % of metric performed at component materiality levels which ranged from $50 million to $135 million 2016: $37.5 million to $95 million, which were Revenue $15,161 million 1.7% determined by reference to a proportion of group materiality Non GAAP EBITDA appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
$6,492 million 3.9% Non GAAP Net Income At group level we also audited the consolidation process and carried $4,604 million 5.4% out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were Normalised PBT no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated $3,411 million 7.3% financial information of the remaining components not subject to Total assets audit or review procedures.
$67,757 million 0.4% We consider the scope to be appropriate to address the risks of Our prior year benchmark of normalised profit before theaudit.
taxwas no longer considered an appropriate benchmark In executing our audit scope we performed testing at Shires two on its own due to the significant ongoing impact on corporate services functions in Ireland and the U. S. as well as in local the Statement of Operations of the Baxalta acquisition, in particular the amortisation of acquired intangible operations, at global functions primarily based in the U. S. Ireland and assets.
Accordingly we have chosen to supplement the UK, and at a group level.
thisbenchmark with those set out above.
The group audit team directly supervises the work performed across These items represent Non GAAP financial measures all of the components, with comprehensive instructions issued to areconciliation of which to the most directly comparable each component team, and follows a program of planned site visits measure under U. S. GAAP is provided on pages 179 and regular remote interactions that are designed to ensure that the to183.
Senior Statutory Auditor or other senior members of the audit team We agreed that we would report to the ACR Committee all audit spend appropriate time with the component team and in each of the differences in excess of $12.5 million 2016: $7.5 million, as well in scope locations throughout the year.
asdifferences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the ACR Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
118 Shire Annual Report 2017 Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and Total assets Revenue using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have 80% In scope 95% In scope no realistic alternative but to do so.
3% Review scope 18% Review scope 2% Desktop scope 2% Desktop scope Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financialstatements Other information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other thefinancial statements as a whole are free from material information comprises the information included in the annual report, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isa high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, taken on the basis of these financial statements.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils auditor otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
This description If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material forms part of our auditors report.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a Use of our report material misstatement in the financial statements or a material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
toyou as uncorrected material misstatements of the other Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume information include where we conclude that: responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given or for the opinions we have formed.
bythe directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or ACR Committee reporting the section describing the work ofthe ACR Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the ACR Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Shire Annual Report 2017 119 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by our engagementletter In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act applied tothe Company.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of theaudit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements that apply to UK companies.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the ACR Committee, we were appointed in 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
Theperiod of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ended December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the ACR Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the ACR Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
John Adam For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor London, United Kingdom February 16, 2018 120 Shire Annual Report 2017
