INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PETROFAC LIMITED Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement In our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Petrofac Limiteds Group financial statements and parent company annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December 2017 and of the Groups loss and the parent companys the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 29 that describe the profit for the year then ended: principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the directors confirmation set out on page 77 in the annual report that with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : and they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 106 in the annual report about We have audited the financial statements of Petrofac Limited whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern which comprise: basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a Group Parent company period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet as at financial statements: as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required Consolidated income statement Income statement for the under the Listing Rules is materially inconsistent with our knowledge for the year then ended year then ended obtained in the audit: or Consolidated statement of Statement of comprehensive the directors explanation set out on page 28 in the annual report as to comprehensive income for the income for the year then ended how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period year then ended they have done so and why they consider that period to be Consolidated statement Statement of changes in equity appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable of changes in equity for the for the year then ended expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and year then ended meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, Consolidated statement of cash Statement of cash flows for the including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary flows for the year then ended year then ended qualifications or assumptions.
Related notes 1 to 34 to the Related notes 1 to 22 to the Overview of our audit approach financial statements, including financial statements including a summary of significant a summary of significant Key audit Revenue and margin recognition on the portfolio accounting policies accounting policies matters of contracts within the Group Impairment and fair value charges on IES assets Business combinations in IES and the JSD6000 We have also audited the part of the Directors Remuneration Report asset held for sale identified as being audited on pages 93 to 97.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their assessment of tax exposure provisions preparation is applicable law and IFRS.
The potential impact of the SFO investigation Audit We performed an audit of the complete financial Basis for opinion scope information of 5 components, including Group consolidation adjustments, and audit procedures We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on on specific balances for a further 3 components.
Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under The components where we performed full or specific those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for audit procedures accounted for 90% of adjusted profit the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are before tax, 96% of revenue and 86% of total assets.
independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the Materiality Group materiality was US$24m, which represents 5% ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial of adjusted profit before tax.
statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Key audit matters We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material Use of our report misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our engagement letter dated 21 November 2017.
Our audit work has been our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
108 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue and margin We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this We reported that revenue and margin recognition on the portfolio risk area in 5 locations, which covered 96% of total revenue.
recognition on long term contracts has of contracts within the Group been correctly accounted for under IAS E&C 11.
We are satisfied that VO, contingency Refer to the Audit Committee The component audit team based in the United Arab Emirates and LD accounting complies with IFRS Report page 86 : Significant UAE with close oversight from the Group audit engagement and the companys accounting policy has accounting policies and team performed the following procedures on the identified been applied consistently.
judgements pages 125 to 126 : risk areas: and Note 4a of the Consolidated We have also ensured the risks associated Recognition and timing of variation orders VOs.
We made financial statements page 135 with revenue recognition have been enquiries of management and project directors.
We appropriately disclosed in Note 2 to the E&C corroborated what we were told by inspection of minutes of financial statements with respect to Accounting for E&C long term meetings and other documentation.
We challenged both the significant estimates.
contracts requires significant probability of claims being approved and managements management judgement and assessment of the value assigned to the variation order.
For We had nothing to report to the Audit estimation which increases the older claims we considered the actions being taken to finalise Committee in respect of the revenue risk of bias or error.
For reversal of variation orders we in the EPS and IES segments.
obtained an understanding the commercial negotiations that Judgement is applied in are ongoing with the client and challenged management on recognising variation orders, maintaining recognition of the claims that have been subject project costs-to-complete, cost to partial reversals.
contingencies and provisions for Provision for liquidated damages.
Our procedures involved liquidated damages.
These discussions with management and project directors to judgements are also subject to understand the status of the project, the tone from the the risk of management override contracting client in terms of imposing any contractual of controls in place.
penalties and corroborating the above through inspection of the relevant documentation and correspondence.
Where it is Revenue in this segment totalled managements expectation that the contract will not be US$4.8bn in 2017 2016: delivered on time, we understand the cause of the delays.
We US$5.9bn assess the extent to which these circumstances constitute a Revenue and margin recognition failure to fulfil the contract terms by Petrofac or the customer.
in the other two segments is The adequacy of contingency provisions.
We verified whether lower risk for the reasons provision releases were recorded in line with Group described below: accounting policy.
We analysed contingency movements throughout the life of the contract, and discussed progress to EPS date and identified risks and challenges on contracts with EPS operation and maintenance individual project directors to determine whether the contracts are primarily remaining contingency was sufficient to cover residual risks reimbursable with a stable on the project.
This segment involves a Determination of the percentage of completion.
We obtained high volume of sales and cost an understanding of progress as agreed with the customers transactions which in total amount and systems in place to split the contracts into component to material revenue to the Group.
We analysed the impact of VOs in establishing Revenue in this segment totalled completion percentage.
US$1.4bn in 2017 2016: Assessment of costs-to-complete.
around the cost estimation process, tested the historical accuracy of previous forecasts and discussed with project IES directors and cost controllers.
We also verified that costs The majority of revenue in this were correctly accrued at period end and costs-to-complete segment arises from the Groups accurately reflected productivity and latest actual cost rates.
operations in Mexico and EPS Malaysia, where revenue is We designed procedures to gain comfort that revenue was recognised on tariff based recognised in the correct period, which primarily included structure and entitlement basis vouching transactions through the year with particular focus on respectively.
There is limited transactions around the balance sheet date and sales accruals.
judgement involved in the determination of revenue IES recognition for these assets, For the Malaysian operations, we reconciled oil volumes per however a residual risk remains Petrofacs field entitlement to revenue recognised in the year.
as a result of the materiality of the For tariff based remuneration structures in Mexico, we vouched amounts recorded.
monthly revenue to the production data reports which determine Revenue in this segment totalled revenue under the contract.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PETROFAC LIMITED CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Impairment and fair value charges We gained an understanding of the basis for We concluded that the impairments and on IES assets key judgements in respect of the outcome of fair value charges on IES assets were commercial negotiations.
We obtained details appropriately determined.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 86 : of the progress made during the year through Significant accounting policies and judgements We have reviewed and concur with the discussions with IES management and pages 125 to 126 : and Note 5 of the Consolidated disclosure of significant estimation corroboration to supporting evidence, including financial statements page 120 uncertainty in relation to the Mexican correspondence with the NOCs, that these PECs, Panuco contingent consideration At 31 December 2017, assets related to the IES negotiations were ongoing.
and Malaysia PM304 assets, presented in segment had a total carrying value of US$1.0bn Note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group audit team performed audit excluding working capital 2016: US$1.2bn.
procedures on the discounted cashflow Impairment charges and fair value reforecasts for those IES assets where measurements were recorded against IES assets impairment indicators existed: of US$245m in 2017 2016: US$272m.
We compared forecast oil and gas price curves The valuation of certain assets are sensitive to the with market data, and assessed for eventual outcome of commercial negotiations with reasonableness the longer term oil and gas the respective National Oil Companies NOCs in prices assumptions: the geographies where they are located.
The assessment of the likely commercial outcomes on We compared planned future operating and these assets is a key judgement.
capital expenditure and production profiles with those used in prior periods and met with the The recoverable amount of each IES asset is Groups reserves assurance team to supported by a discounted cashflow model, which understand their objectivity and expertise in primarily depends on internally generated reviewing the internally generated forecasts: information such as future operating and capital expenditure and production profiles.
We used an internal EY valuation specialist to assist with our consideration of the discount rate.
Other relevant judgements include the oil and gas price forecasts, and the discount rate to be applied to these cashflow forecasts.
1 Business combinations in IES The Group audit team reviewed the joint We are satisfied that Petrofacs interest in and the JSD6000 asset held for sale operating agreements for both Santuario and GSA and Santuario meet the criteria to be GSA to assess whether the partners have a accounted for as joint operations, and the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 86 : joint control over the arrangement, and whether nature of both transactions also meet the and Notes 10 and 14 of the Consolidated financial the rights and obligations obtained meet the criteria to apply business combination statements pages 140 and 145 definition of a joint operation.
In September 2017 Petrofac acquired a 20% We assessed whether the acquisition method We also concur with the fair values of the ownership interest in the GSA oil and gas field in of accounting was correctly applied in consideration, the assets and liabilities the UK North Sea, and in December 2017 Petrofac accounting for business combinations.
acquired, and the related disclosures migrated the Santuario PEC in Mexico to a PSC.
presented in the financial statements in We corroborated inputs to the discounted There is judgement required in applying IFRS 11 note 10.
For the JSD6000, we concurred cashflow models used to determine the fair Joint arrangements and IFRS 3 Business with the impairment recorded upon value of consideration and also the fair value of combinations to these transactions, and therefore reclassification to held for sale.
assets and liabilities acquired in each a risk of error in the relevant fair value transaction.
The nature and extent of We concluded that the results of measurements and presentation of the procedures performed on the related impairment and fair value retransactions in the financial statements.
discounted cashflow models supporting fair measurements in respect of IES assets JSD6000 value is presented in the section Impairment and the JSD6000 have been properly and fair value charges on IES assets above.
reflected in the financial statements.
Petrofac has reclassified the vessel from assets JSD6000 is properly classified as an asset under construction to assets held for sale, since JSD6000 held for sale under IFRS.
the vessels carrying amount is expected to be We discussed the terms of the proposed recovered principally through a disposal transaction with management and obtained transaction within the next 12 months.
There is a meeting minutes to confirm that the Board had judgement involved in determining whether the sale resolved to sell the vessel.
is highly probable, and whether the fair value less costs of disposal of the vessel is lower than its We agreed the estimated sales price and terms carrying value.
of proposed sales transaction to relevant documentation and inspected correspondence After recording an impairment charge of US$176m, between the counterparties to validate the intent the JSD6000 had a carrying value of US$217m at to execute the disposal in the next 12 months.
110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Recoverability of deferred tax assets and We utilised taxation specialists in our London We are satisfied that the deferred tax assessment of tax exposure provisions team to assist the Group audit team in assets are appropriately recognised and identifying jurisdictions to be included in audit presented in the financial statements.
Refer to the Audit Committee report page 86 : scope.
We also involved local tax specialists in Significant accounting policies and judgements The provision in respect of income tax the relevant jurisdictions where we deemed it page 126 : and note 7 of the Consolidated financial exposures as at 31 December 2017 of necessary to address specific local tax matters.
statements page 138 US$110m is materially consistent with the We identified tax exposures estimated by Groups experience in the relevant The wide geographical spread of the Groups management, including those arising on jurisdictions and historical tax assessments operations, the complexity of application of local business combinations, and gained an concluded with the tax authorities.
tax rules in many different jurisdictions and transfer understanding of the risk analysis associated pricing risks affecting the allocation of income and with these exposures along with claims or costs charged between jurisdictions and assessments made by tax authorities to date.
businesses increases the risk of misstatement of tax balances.
We also tested the basis of the computation and disclosure of current and deferred tax to The assessment of tax exposures by management ensure compliance with local tax rules and the requires judgement given the structure of individual Groups accounting policies.
contracts and the increasing activity of tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which Petrofac We evaluated managements assessment of operates.
the likelihood of the realisation of deferred tax balances by obtaining profit forecasts for the Furthermore, the recognition of deferred tax assets relevant businesses, ensuring these were and liabilities needs to be assessed regularly to consistent with plans approved by the Board, ensure that any changes in local tax laws and considering past accuracy of forecasts and profitability of associated contracts are considering implications of non-recurring losses appropriately considered.
1 SFO investigation We met with Petrofac Directors, personnel and We have reviewed the disclosures on this external legal advisers to understand the status matter in the Annual Report and are Refer to Governance Report pages 66 and 78 of the investigation, and the nature of the satisfied they appropriately represent the and Consolidated financial statements page 160 questions being raised by the SFO.
We reviewed Groups activities in response to the SFO The Company and EY are unable to determine the minutes of relevant meetings and made investigation and the current status of the outcome of the investigation or any financial enquiries regarding the matters documented.
investigation as understood by the Group.
Our principal reason for With respect to going concern and viability, we The disclosures made in respect of going designating this a key matter is the risk to future confirmed the assumptions made in the concern and viability are consistent with order intake, customer and supplier relationships business plan were appropriate and consistent the results of our audit procedures on and banking facility renewal.
with the Companys risk analysis.
tested scenarios in the cash flow and profit forecasts related to new order intake, ability to refinance loans, covenant testing and the potential for one off loss events.
We have considered how management have addressed the matter and considered the need for further action, including any matters arising from work by Internal Audit.
1 Denotes a new key audit matter in 2017.
There were no other changes in risk assessment compared to the prior year.
An overview of the scope of our audit We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components full scope components which were selected based on Tailoring the scope their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 3 components specific Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as The reporting components where we performed audit procedures recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be accounted for 90% 2016: 89% of the Groups adjusted PBT, 96% performed at each entity.
2016:93% of the Groups Revenue and 86% 2016: 80% of the Groups Total assets.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of For the current year, the full scope components contributed 82% significant accounts in the financial statements we selected components 2016:95% of the Groups adjusted PBT, 92% 2016: 93% of the Groups covering entities within the UAE, UK, Malaysia, Mexico and Tunisia which Revenue and 83% 2016: 80% of the Groups Total assets.
represent the principal business units within the Group.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PETROFAC LIMITED CONTINUED The specific scope components contributed 8% 2016: -5% of the The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits Groups adjusted PBT, 4% 2016: 3% of the Groups Revenue and 3% that has been designed to ensure that each location is subject to an 2016: 10% of the Groups Total assets.
appropriate level of senior team member oversight during key audit activities.
The nature and extent of these visits were designed relative to the size of the component, and the division of responsibilities between The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all the local and Group team on the significant risk areas applicable significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the to the component.
coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We also instructed one location to perform specified procedures over additions to the Greater Stella oil and gas asset.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in the UAE, Malaysia and Mexico.
The nature and extent of these visits were designed relative to the size of the Of the remaining components that together represent 10% of the Groups component, and the division of responsibilities between the local and adjusted PBT, none are individually greater than 1% of the Groups Group team on the significant risk areas applicable to the component.
For these components, we performed other procedures, During the current year audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group including assessing and testing managements Group wide controls.
We audit team including a Group audit partner to the component teams in also performed analytical review on a component basis using a risk based the UAE two full scope and one specific scope components, Malaysia approach, and tested consolidation journals to identify the existence of, one full scope component and Mexico one specific scope component.
and respond to, any further risks of misstatement that could have been material to the Group financial statements.
The Global Team Planning Event was held in London with representatives of the teams from Aberdeen, UAE and Malaysia all attending by video The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work conference.
In addition, dependent on the timing of our visits in the audit performed by our audit teams.
cycle, our visits to components involved discussion of the audit approach profit before tax with the component team and any issues arising from their work, Full scope components excluding exceptional items % consideration of the approach to revenue recognition, reviewing key Specic scope components working papers, attending the audit planning meeting and attending the Other procedures audit closing meeting, including the discussion of fraud and error.
In 10 concluding the year-end audit the Group audit team visited the main 8 operating and finance location in Sharjah, UAE to perform the audit of the consolidation and financial statements and to interact closely with the local component team.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the 82 component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional Revenue % Total assets % procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
4 4 14 3 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in 83 92 forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Changes from the prior year The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the Our scope allocation in the current year is broadly consistent with 2016 in aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic terms of overall coverage of the Group and the number of full and specific decisions of the users of the financial statements.
As highlighted in 2016, the Group audit team is responsible basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
for the audit of the Santuario and GSA business combination transactions.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$24m 2016: US$25m, Involvement with component teams which is 5% 2016: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the adjusting for the items described below provides us with a consistent type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is appropriate in the us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors light of the extended decline in oil prices, and the change in Group from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
For 2017, these related to exceptional items and certain 5 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 2 of these re-measurements of US$438m refer to note 5 of the financial statements directly by the primary audit team based in London, and the remaining 3 which were all subject to full scope audit procedures.
full scope components were audited by EY global network firms in the UAE, Malaysia and Aberdeen, UK.
For the 3 specific scope components, We determined materiality for the parent company to be US$12.2 million where the work was performed by component auditors, we undertook an 2016: US$13.9 million, which is 0.5% 2016: 0.5% of total assets.
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
112 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Starting basis other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Reported pre-tax profit US$45m 2016: US$100m that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Adjustments Exceptional items increase basis by US$438m 2016: US$419m We have nothing to report in this regard.
Materiality In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility Total adjusted profit before tax US$483m 2016: US$519m to specifically address the following items in the other information and to Materiality of US$24m 2016: US$25m 5% of materiality basis report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Performance materiality Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
directors on page 106 that they consider the annual report and It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements understandable and provides the information necessary for exceeds materiality.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the audit: or Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely audit committee set out of pages 82 to 87 do not appropriately US$12.0m 2016: US$12.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a higher Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk Governance Code.
of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of Matters on which we are required to report performance materiality allocated to components was US$2.4m to by exception US$10.8m 2016: US$2.5m to US$11.2m.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to Reporting threshold which the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, An amount below which identified misstatements are considered in our opinion: as being clearly trivial.
proper accounting records have not been kept by the company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all branches not visited by us: or uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.2m 2016: US$1.25m, the financial statements are not in agreement with the companys which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that accounting records and returns: or threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require Reclassification differences are only reported to the Audit Committee for our audit.
where the difference exceeds 2% of the applicable primary financial statement line items.
Opinion on other matters, as agreed in our Engagement Letter We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation Other information as described therein: The information given in the Strategic Report and Governance Report The other information comprises the information included in the annual is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
The information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The information about the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
7 is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the of the FCA Rules.
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PETROFAC LIMITED CONTINUED Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 106, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
John Flaherty for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP London 28 February 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
114 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017
