01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 57.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 We have audited the financial statements of John Laing Infrastructure Fund the company which comprise: the Income statement: the Statement of Financial Position: the Statement of changes in equity: the Cash ow statement: and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identied in the current year were: valuation of investments at fair value: and recognition of operating income.
Materiality We determined materiality for the company to be 23.0 million 2016: 21.6 million, which is below 2% 2016: below 2% of equity.
We are no longer including a separate materiality associated with cash affecting balances, as we have reassessed the coverage we obtain with this threshold considering the growth of the portfolio 2016: lower materiality threshold of 3.5 million.
Instead, we will base our testing on a metric of 10% of materiality on sensitive balances not associated with the fair value of investments, i. e. administrative expenses.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
significant changes There has been no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
in our approach JLIF Limited 58.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 c to the financial statements about We confirm that we have whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in nothing material to report, preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to add or draw attention to in continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge nothing material to report, obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as add or draw attention to in a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw respect of these matters.
attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 12 to 18 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors conrmation on page 12 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 19 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 59.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Valuation of investments at fair value Key audit The Company holds an investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. valued at 1.2 billion 2016: 1.1 billion and this matter investment in turn owns indirect investments in intermediate holding companies and equity and subordinated description debt interests in PPP infrastructure projects.
These investments in PPP projects are valued at 1.4 billion 2016: 1.2 billion, and the subsidiaries within the intermediate holding structure are valued at 142.5 million.
Refer to Note 9 to the financial statements for the movements in these investments for the financial year.
As described in the Accounting Policies in Note 1 to the financial statements and Audit Committee Report on page 49, the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure projects is determined using a discounted cash ow methodology, as there is no liquid market for these projects.
The complexity of this methodology, as well as the numerous, significant judgments, means there is a risk that the fair value of these investments may not be appropriate and hence this has been identied as a fraud risk.
The key judgements are: Discount rates the determination of the appropriate discount rate for each investment that is reective of current market and political conditions and the specic risks within each project: Macroeconomic assumptions including corporation tax, ination and deposit rates: Forecast future cash ows enhancements made to underlying project cash ows to enhance or change the timings of cash ows from the PPP infrastructure projects: Tax considerations the potential impact of Base Erosion profit Shifting action 6 and the material withholding tax suffered, as well as the availability of losses within the group structure on the fair value of the PPP infrastructure projects: and External factors such as the EU referendum result and the political situation in Spain.
How the We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements judgements applied in determining the fair scope of value of PPP infrastructure projects by: our audit Testing the operating effectiveness of controls at various service providers, focussing on the financial reporting responded and treasury cycles and the controls around project financial models: to the key audit matter Testing the operating effectiveness of controls around the valuation process adopted by management and the Board: Challenging management concerning the discount rates applied to individual projects and to each sector, by comparing to relevant peers and recent market transactions: Challenging macroeconomic assumptions by reference to observable market data and forecasts: Reviewing forecast cash ows, in particular movements since acquisition and value enhancements made, particularly by reference to third party support: Reviewing the historical accuracy of managements cash ow forecasts against actual results: Running audit analytics on the valuation model and a sample of project models to test them for integrity and material formula errors: Visiting a selection of sites and holding discussions with the local management on potential project issues which might affect future cash ows: Discussing with our valuation experts the valuation of investments, the appropriateness of managements judgements, rates applied to assets in Spain and the US, the impact of the EU referendum result on the valuation of the PPP projects and using this information to challenge managements independent specialists: and Using our tax specialists to assess the impact of certain tax considerations and then challenging management concerning the impact of those in the fair value of the Companys PPP infrastructure projects.
Key We have found that: observations The macroeconomic assumptions fall within a reasonable range based on available observable market data: The discount rates used at a project level are within a reasonable range, considering project specic risks: Enhancements reected in the underlying cash ows and change in timings are supported by third party evidence where appropriate: and Tax considerations at a project and group level have been reected in an appropriate and supportable way.
We found that the methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Recognition of operating income Key audit Operating income of 113.6 million 2016: 175.2 million represents the movement in fair value of JLIFs matter investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. There is a risk that there may be double counting of forecast cash ows used in description determining the fair value of these investments, with the cash ow included as both a receivable held at fair value and as a discounted forecast cash ow.
The Accounting policies related to this risk can be found in note 2 d of the financial statements.
How the As well as the procedures highlighted above for challenging the fair value of investments, we have: scope of Traced the distributions from the underlying investments through to the valuation model, and into the direct our audit subsidiary and indirect subsidiaries: responded to the key Assessing the consistency of the accounting treatment of cash received in the intermediate subsidiary audit matter structure to check whether revenue is recognised in the correct period: and Reviewed receivables against the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure projects to assess whether there is a cash ow receipt included in both.
Key We noted no material instances of inappropriate operating income recognition arising in our testing.
observations Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 23.0 million 2016: 21.6 million Basis for determining We determined materiality for the company to be below 2% 2016: below 2% of equity.
materiality We believe this is the most appropriate benchmark as equity is considered to be one of the Rationale for the benchmark applied principal considerations for members of the company in assessing its financial performance.
We are no longer including a separate materiality associated with cash affecting balances, as we have reassessed the coverage we obtain with this threshold considering the growth of the portfolio 2016: the lower materiality threshold of 3.5 million.
Instead we base our testing on a metric of 10% of materiality on sensitive balances not associated with the fair value of investments, i. e. administrative expenses.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.2 million 2016: 0.4 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 1,200m 23m qualitative grounds.
After taking into account factors such as the nature of the entity and history of uncorrected misstatements the selected threshold was increased.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that 1.15m we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Equity Materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 61.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued An overview of the scope of our audit We have applied a risk-based approach in scoping the portfolio of investments, considering the cash ows of JLIFs PPP investments, and grouping assets with similar characteristics and risk proles together.
We have tailored our procedures based on each level of assessed risk.
JLIF uses a number of service organisations to manage its investments and to support in the preparation of the financial statements.
As such, we have performed design, implementation and operating effectiveness testing of controls at a sample of these service organisations, which gives coverage of 65.5% 2016: 80.2% of the PPP investments by value.
In addition, we have reviewed the competency and capabilities of other service organisations to provide the services for which they are engaged.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information in the annual report, including the We have nothing to report Chairmans statement, Strategic Report and Corporate Governance statements.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board on 6 August 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is eight years, covering the years ending 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
John Clacy, FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 23 March 2018
