GOVERNANCE | Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group as at 31 December 2017, and of their consolidated financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Group s consolidated financial statements comprise: the consolidated statement of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated condensed schedule of investments as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated statement of operations for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in net assets for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
ilatariaf Uncertainty Related to Going Concern We draw your attention to the going concern disclosures in the Strategic Report on page 16 and to the basis of preparation disclosures in note 2 to the financial statements.
These note that the directors are required to propose a resolution that the Company continues its business as a closed-ended investment company at the annual general meeting.
If a continuation resolution is not passed, the directors shall put proposals to the shareholders for restructuring or reorganisation of the Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants IESBA Code.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code.
44 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Materiality Overall Group materiality was $19.6 million which represents approximately 1.5% of overall Group net assets.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Guernsey and Luxembourg components of the Group.
The components where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of total net assets, net investment income and net realised and unrealised gain appreciation.
Key audit matters Valuation of investments Audit scope As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Company is based in Guernsey with two underlying subsidiaries located in Luxembourg and engages Neuberger Berman Europe Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the Company and both of the underlying subsidiaries.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements from information provided by Quintillion Limited the SubAdministrator to whom US Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey Limited the Designated Manager and Administrator has, with the consent of the directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
Scoping was performed at the Group level, irrespective of whether the underlying transactions took place within the Company or within either of the subsidiaries.
The transactions relating to the Company and the subsidiaries are maintained by the SubAdministrator on a single consolidated general ledger and therefore we were not required to engage with component auditors from another PwC global network firm operating under our instructions.
Our testing was therefore performed on a consolidated basis using thresholds which are determined with reference to the overall Group performance materiality and the risks of material misstatement identified.
45 | MB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE [ Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED We conducted our audit work both in Guernsey and on site at the Sub-Administrator in Dublin and we tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Group and the involvement of the third parties referred to above, together with their accounting processes and controls.
As noted in the overview, the components of the Group where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of Group total net assets, net investment income and net realised and unrealised gain appreciation.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Overall Group mdiena iy $19.6 million 2016: $25.3 million How v e determined it 1.5% of overall Group net assets 2016:2.00% of overall Group net assets Rationale for the materiality benchmark We believe overall Group net assets to be the appropriate basis for determining benchmark materiality since the primary consideration for investors is asset preservation, over and above income generation.
The key statistic used for periodic reporting to investors is total return, which is a calculation comprising both movements in the valuation of the portfolio and the income generated from the portfolio.
We have reduced the overall materiality percentage to 1.5% of Group net assets from 2% in the previous year due to the following: We have assessed that in view of the present characteristics of the portfolio and current market conditions, there needs to be a tighter level of precision applied.
The vast majority of the investments are Level 2 and are capable of being independently re-priced to a range of reliable third party providers with little or no exceptions arising.
In the current market, the portfolio is presently considered to be moderately liquid with some level of subjectivity in the overall valuation process, however this is limited.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $980,000 2016: $1,266,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
46 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Key audit matter Valuation of investments The internal control environment in place at the SubAdministrator As detailed in Note 2, the investment portfolio at over the valuation of the investment portfolio and the production of year end was valued at $1,260.7 million 2016: the net asset value for the Group was understood and evaluated.
$1,256.9 million, comprising floating rate senior We assessed the accounting policy for investment valuation for secured loans of $1,153.6 million 2016: $1,213.9 compliance with accounting standards, performed testing to ensure million, fixed and floating rates bonds of $104.1 that the investment valuation had been accounted for in accordance million 2016: $43.0 million and an equity with the stated accounting policy and determined that the investment of $3.0 million 2016: nil.
We focussed accounting policy complied with accounting standards and had on the valuation of this investment portfolio because been consistently applied.
it represents the principal element of the net asset We tested the valuation of the investment portfolio of floating rate value as disclosed on the consolidated statement of senior secured loans and fixed and floating rate bonds by assets and liabilities.
independently agreeing the prices used in the valuation to a range of third party providers.
No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Whilst the equity investment is not material, we have inquired of the Investment Manager to understand this investment and how the fair value has been derived.
The fair value was agreed by the Investment Manager s pricing committee due to there being no third party price available at year end.
Back testing was performed for a sample of floating rate senior secured loan disposals to compare the sales transaction price to the most recently recorded valuation provided by the third party pricing provider prior to the disposal, which provided additional evidence over the reliability of the valuation data from the third party providers engaged in the valuation process.
We also assessed the overall appropriateness of managements decision to engage the specific third party pricing providers to assist with the investment portfolio valuation, based on their competency and objectivity.
No matters were noted which required reporting to those charged with governance.
An assessment was made to determine whether the Investment Manager used any estimation techniques in determining the valuation of any securities in the investment portfolio.
Apart from the equity investment identified above, we identified no indication that such techniques had been used.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the company overview section, the financial highlights, the chairmans statement, the investment managers report, the portfolio information, the strategic report, the directors, the directors report, the corporate governance report, the audit and risk committee report, the management engagement committee report, the remuneration and nomination committee report, the directors remuneration report, the directors responsibilities statement, the alternative investment fund managers directive disclosure and the contact details of the advisers but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Other than as specified in our report, our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
47 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Responsibilities of the directors for the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the requirements of Guernsey law and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
in preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 48 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE iNCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Independent Auditor s Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCO E FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements continued rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the consolidated financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have reviewed: the directors statement set out on page 16 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future e ents or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: the directors' statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Groups compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save v' 1 by our prior consent in writing.
J For and on behalf of  Cl LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 9 April 2018 49 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
