Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees The Chairmans fee from 1 January 2018 is 160,000 increased from 140,000 to reflect the increased time commitment associated with the role as the Company has grown in size, scale and complexity.
The fees of Non-executive Directors remain unchanged and comprise a base fee of 60,000 p. a. and additional fees of 10,000 p. a. for chairing any of the Audit, Risk and the Remuneration Committees.
The fee for holding the Senior Independent Director position is 5,000.
Directors service contracts Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of Date of Appointment appointment, or date of resignation Executive Directors Dean Godwin 26 January 2015 N A Spencer Daley 26 January 2015 N A Phil Godley 10 March 2015 Resigned 1 January 2018 Chairman and Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 1 March 2015 27 February 2021 Reappointed 30 January 2018 Andy Pomfret 24 March 2015 23 March 2021 Reappointed 30 January 2018 26 March 2015 25 March 2021 Nicola Palios Reappointed 30 January 2018 Phil Godley remained an employee of the Company.
Statement of voting at the Annual General Meeting The Committee is directly accountable to Shareholders and in this context is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with Shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
The Committee Chairman is available to answer questions.
At the 2017 AGM, the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from Shareholders: Total number of Annual Report on Remuneration votes % of votes cast For 115,989,344 98.55% Against 1,707,751 1.45% Abstentions 1 0.00% Total 117,697,096 100% Votes for include those registered as Discretion.
Compliance In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full consideration to best practice.
Following the appointment of Mel Carvill to the Committee on 1 January 2018 the Committee with comply with the principles of the Code going forward.
For and on behalf of the Board.
Nicola Palios Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 March 2018 74 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Corporate Governance Directors Responsibility Statement provide additional disclosures when The Strategic Report and Directors Report The Directors are compliance with the specific requirements include a fair view of the development in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users and performance of the business and responsible for to understand the impact of particular the position of the Company and the transactions, other events and conditions on undertakings included in the consolidation keeping proper the entity's financial position and financial taken as a whole, together with a description performance: and of the principal risks and uncertainties that accounting records they face.
make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a going concern.
This responsibility statement has been approved that disclose, with by the Board of Directors of Sanne Group plc on The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 21 March 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: reasonable accuracy, accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of at any time, the the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies financial position of Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence the Company.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities Dean Godwin Spencer Daley The Directors are responsible for preparing the Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The Annual Report and Consolidated Financial financial statements in accordance with applicable 21 March 2018 21 March 2018 Statements, taken as a whole, are fair and law and regulations.
balanced and understandable and provide the Company law requires the Directors to prepare information necessary for Shareholders to assess financial statements for each financial year.
Under the performance, strategy and business model of that law the Directors have elected to prepare the the Company.
financial statements in accordance with applicable The Directors confirm that they have complied law and International Financial Reporting with the above in preparing these financial Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European statements.
The Directors prepared an unaudited Union.
The financial statements are required by interim report covering the six month period law to give a true and fair view of the state of ended 30 June 2017. affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
Statement as a result of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct International Accounting Standard 1 requires Authority: that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the group's financial position, We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects The financial statements, prepared in of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the applicable set of accordance with the definitions and recognition accounting standards, give a true and fair criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses view of the assets, liabilities, financial set out in the International Accounting Standards position and profit of the parent Company Board's 'Framework for the preparation and and its undertakings included in the presentation of financial statements'.
In virtually consolidation taken as a whole: and all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: 75 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
indd 75 23 03 2018 16:24:24 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Sanne Group plc Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : have been properly prepared in accordance with Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
We have audited the financial statements of Sanne Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit The key risks that we identified in the current year were: matters revenue recognition valuation of accrued income in Mauritius: impairment of intangible assets, specifically goodwill: and accounting for acquisitions.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 1.1m which was determined on the basis of Group profit before tax.
Scoping Included within the scope of the audit were twelve components across eight jurisdictions Jersey, Guernsey, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Luxembourg, South Africa, the United States and Mauritius.
Significant Since the acquisition of the Mauritian business with effect from 1 January 2017, the scope of our audit changed to also include changes this reporting component as a significant component of the Group.
There were no other significant changes in our audit in our approach, from the prior year.
com Corporate Governance Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we have nothing material to considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their report, add or draw attention to in respect of identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at these matters.
least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent We confirm that we have nothing material to with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the report, add or draw attention to in respect of evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, we are these matters.
required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 23-26 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 56 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year we referred to key audit matters related to the valuation of trade receivables and share based payments.
We have not referred to these in the current year because in the overall context of the audit of the Group as a whole, these areas did not take up the most significant efforts or resources of the engagement team.
Revenue recognition valuation of accrued income in Mauritius Key audit At the year-end there is 3.1m 2016: 1.5m of time which has been spent working on client matters which has not been billed or which has been accrued, of which 2.0m pertains to Sanne Mauritius Limited SML.
The valuation of accrued matter income was included in the prior year audit report however in the current year this key audit matter is focused specifically on description SML.
The accrued income is required to be stated at the amount which is recoverable and because SML is on a different billing cycle to the rest of the Group and the accrued income is aged, there is a risk of material misstatement that is not recoverable.
There is a high level of judgement applied by management in assessing and determining the value of the accrued income.
The accounting policy is detailed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The judgements are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 54.
indd 77 23 03 2018 16:24:25 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report continued How the We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the quarterly billing and accrued income evaluation process specific to the valuation of accrued income in SML.
scope of our audit For a sample of clients for which accrued income has been recognised, we have reviewed the level of bills raised and recovered responded to post year end.
For those amounts not billed or recovered post year end, we have challenged managements judgement and the key audit rationale around the recoverability of the amounts through reviewing fee agreements and communications with clients to verify the amounts which are able to be charged and through reviewing historical billing and payment patterns in respect of matter those clients to support judgments to the extent required.
Key We consider managements judgements around the recoverability of the accrued income amounts in SML to be reasonable.
observations Impairment of intangible assets, specifically goodwill Key audit In previous years and during the current year there have been a number of acquisitions by entities within the Group resulting in a goodwill balance of 100.4m 2016: 55.1m as at the year end.
Acquisitions were made in Ireland, South Africa, North matter America, and the Netherlands in prior year and a further acquisition was made in Mauritius at the start of the current year.
description The initial valuation of the intangible assets, including the allocation of goodwill, was determined in the year of acquisition, however continual judgement is applied by management in performing impairment reviews in respect of the carrying value of goodwill.
The impairment of intangible assets was included in the prior year audit report and this year there is a specific focus on goodwill due to the increased balance.
Accounting policy detailed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The assumptions and judgements which are made in respect of these areas are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 54 and in note 13.
How the We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the preparation and review of impairment models.
scope of We evaluated and challenged managements future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up through our audit assessing the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions applied based our understanding of the business.
We tested the responded to underlying value in use calculations.
We compared managements forecast with the latest approved budgets and found them the risk to be materially consistent.
We challenged the key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them with historical results and we also challenged the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable organisations and assessed the specific risk premium applied to each cash generating unit CGU in question.
We performed sensitivity analysis to identify the key assumption of growth rate as being important to the valuation and then evaluated managements rationale for the applied rates.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions, both individually or in aggregate, would result in goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
Key Given the level of headroom identified as a result of the above procedures we were satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill is reasonable.
We identified that the CGU with the least headroom is Sorato which has 0.4m headroom in the calculations observations performed by management.
com Corporate Governance Accounting for acquisitions Key audit The accounting for business combinations is complex.
There has been one acquisition on 1 January 2017, IFS Group in Mauritius, which is subject to this accounting as set out in note 26.
Furthermore there is a significant amount of judgement matter involved in the determination of the fair value of the acquired assets and the allocation of the purchase price, resulting in a risk description that the associated valuations may not be accurate.
The judgement arises from the fact there are a number of assumptions which are included in the model used to determine the fair value and allocation of the value between goodwill and intangible assets such as estimation of useful economic lives of the assets, growth rates, attrition rates and the discount rate.
The initial recognition of intangible assets related to this acquisition is disclosed as a critical judgement in note 4 of the annual report.
The judgements are also set out in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 54.
How the We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the accounting for acquisitions.
scope of We have challenged the judgements applied in the valuation models and purchase price allocation through reviewing our audit comparable data and the most significant challenges were around attrition rates, overhead and direct cost allocations and responded to contributory asset charges included within the model.
the risk We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the model.
This included sensitising the discount rates and attrition rates.
In addition we challenged management around certain methodology matters relating to the models including the exclusion of brand value.
Our challenges were made with reference to cumulatively acquired knowledge of the Group, the acquired entity and other market and industry factors.
Key We considered managements overall estimate in respect of the purchase price allocation to be reasonable.
observations Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 1.1m 2016: 0.7m Basis for determining 5% of Group profit before tax 2016: 5% of Group profit before tax materiality Rationale for the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of Group profit benchmark applied before tax.
We believe that Group profit before tax is the most appropriate benchmark as it is a key statutory measure.
indd 79 23 03 2018 16:24:25 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report continued Group m ateriality 1.1m PBT Com pon en t m ateriality ran ge PPBBTT 22.
4m 4m 0.5m to 0.6m Group M ateriality t o ror th resh old 0.022m We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 22,000 2016: 15,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the Group operates which maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to a Head Office finance team in Jersey, supported by South Africa, through submission of management reporting packs.
At a Group level, the head office finance team consolidates the reporting of all reporting components.
In our view, due to their financial significance and or risk characteristics, those businesses in Luxembourg, Mauritius, the United States and certain entities in Jersey required an audit of their complete financial information.
Component auditors from Deloitte network firms in Luxembourg and Mauritius who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in those territories supported this audit work.
The component materialities used were betwenn 45% and 55% of Group materiality based on the percentage of the Group benchmark represented by each component.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed by the local team in South Africa.
The work on the valuation of accrued income was performed by Deloitte Mauritius as the component auditor and senior members of the Group engagement team performed a detail review of the components working papers as well as having detailed discussions with local client management and staff to obtain a thorough understanding of the accounting treatment applied.
Based upon Group materiality, we did not carry out detailed audit procedures on all components within the Group.
Local audit teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies where required by local legislation.
In order to direct and supervise the Group audit, the Group engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant component audit teams.
This included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
The Group engagement team held regular meetings with component auditors throughout the year and visited the audit teams located in South Africa at the planning stage of the audit and Mauritius for both the planning and final phases of the audit.
This ensured that we had a comprehensive understanding of the results of their work, particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and certain complex items were audited by the Group engagement team in Jersey.
These included share based payments which are not covered by the work performed by component auditors.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
com Corporate Governance 4% 4% 99%%7% 7% profit Reven ueNet A ssets before tax 9966%%993% 3% 991% 1% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at group level Review at group level Review at group level Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to report annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
indd 81 23 03 2018 16:24:26 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report continued Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com Corporate Governance Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matter prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
We have nothing to report Matters on which we are required to report by exception in respect of these matters.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Andrew Isham, BA, FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognized Auditor Jersey 21 March 2018 83 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
