70 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC Conclusions relating to principal risks, going Our opinion on the financial statements concern and viability statement isunmodied We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in We have audited the financial statements of GVC HoldingsPLC theannual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: year ended 31 December 2017, which comprise the Consolidated the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 34 that Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive describethe principal risks and explain how they are being Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the managedor mitigated: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cashows, the Company Balance Sheet, the the Directors conrmation, set out on page 47 of the annual report Company Statement of Changes in Equity and Notes to the that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Consolidated and Company Financial Statements, including facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Directors statement, set out on page 47 of the financial the Group financial statements is applicable law and International statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has financial statements and the Directors identication of any material been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys ability to statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced date of approval of the financial statements: Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is In our opinion: materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the Directors explanation, set out on page 34 of the Annual Report of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over 31December 2017 and of the Groups loss for the year what period they have done so and why they consider that period thenended: to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing the Parent Company financial statements have been properly attentionto any necessary qualications or assumptions.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Overview of our audit approach Overall materiality: 10.0m, which represents 3.7% of the Basis for opinion Groups operating profit for continuing operations adjusted We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards for share based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, onAuditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities amortisation, impairments and changes in the fair value of under those standards are further described in the Auditors derivative financial instruments Clean EBITDA including responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of discontinued operations: ourreport.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company Key audit matters were identied as gaming taxes: accounting in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our for direct and indirect taxation: legal and regulatory compliance, audit of the financial statements in the Isle of Man, including the FRCs impairment ofgoodwill and other intangible assets: and revenue Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we recognition occurrence: and have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is We performed full scope audits at the key business operations sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
in the IsleofMan, United Kingdom, Malta, Gibraltar, Austria andItaly.
Who we are reporting to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 20 November 2017.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 71 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP GAMING TAXES Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Subsequent to the year-end the Group released a Regulatory with assistance from our indirect tax and Greek tax experts we obtained and challenged News Service RNS on 25 January 2018 notifying investors that managements view of the Greek assessment received including whether the arguments one of its subsidiaries, Sporting Odds Limited, had received a putforward in the appeal are valid and are supported by relevant legislation and case law tax audit assessment from the Greek Audit Centre for Large arereasonable: Enterprises in respect of the periods 2010 and 2011 for an amount for each jurisdiction with material revenues we performed an analytical review of gaming taxes of 186.7m.
due, then investigated specic territories where amounts paid were outside of our expectation Based on legal and tax advice received, management consider by performing recalculation procedures and assessing the appropriateness ofany differences: there tobe strong grounds to appeal the assessment.
Therefore, we evaluated whether the disclosures made throughout the Annual Report in relation to this management have determined that the assessed amount of matter and with regards to gaming taxes in totality are complete: 186.7m is not payable by the subsidiary and have disclosed we have checked the disclosures prepared by management relating to indirect taxes within the acontingent liabilitywithin the Group financial statements.
principal risks and uncertainties, considering whether these are complete, fair and balanced, The assessment of the impact on the financial statements, and adequately describe the risks and the steps management take to mitigate these risks: and includingkey disclosures, is complex and required significant we assessed the impact of this matter on other areas of the financial statements including the management judgement.
assessment of viability and going concern, and impairment of assets.
We therefore identied gaming taxes as a significant risk, The Groups accounting policy on taxation is shown in note 1.17 to the financial statements whichwas one of the most significant assessed risks of andrelated disclosures are included in note 27.1.
The Audit Committee identied gaming taxas materialmisstatement.
a significant issue in its report on page 37, where the Audit Committee also described theaction that it has taken to address this issue.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on the results of our procedures performed we conclude that a contingent liability shouldbe disclosed at 31 December 2017 in the financial statements.
We consider the disclosures made in the financial statements regarding the assessment and its impact on thegoing concern and the viability statement, the note on contingent liabilities and the note oncapital commitments are consistent and compliant with the requirements of IAS 37 and otherrelevant disclosure guidance.
ACCOUNTING FOR DIRECT AND INDIRECT TAXATION Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Group structure is complex and includes a number of discussing with managements tax experts, with support from our tax experts, how the Group jurisdictions in which the Group operates or has physical presence.
manages and controls the companies in countries where it operates: In addition, the rules and practices governing the taxation of evaluating the Groups transfer pricing methodology including recent changes in pricing, giving e-commerce activity, including VAT and other indirect taxes, consideration to the OECDs BEPS Base Erosion and profit Shifting initiative checking that is complex and therefore judgement is often required as to intra-group charges are in line with this, along with Managements view of the UK diverted applicability and calculation of taxes due.
profits tax: We therefore identied accounting for direct and indirect taxation obtaining and reading correspondence between the Group and tax authorities in relevant key as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant territories in order to gain an understanding and to support the tax position of the Group: assessed risks of material misstatement.
understanding managements interpretation and application of relevant tax law and challenging the appropriateness of managements assumptions and estimates in relation to provisions and contingent liabilities: and assessing whether the Groups disclosures relating to taxation were materially in accordance with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Groups accounting policy on accounting for direct and indirect taxation is shown in note1.17 and related disclosures are included in notes 6.2, 6.3 and 27.2 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee identied accounting for direct and indirect taxation as a significant issue in its report on page 37, where the Audit Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on the work performed, we have not identied any significant areas of concern on the accounting applied for direct and indirect taxation.
We did not identify any material misstatements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
It has been noted that the gaming and VAT treatment are ever-evolving in many of the jurisdictions the GVC Group operate inand will, therefore, continue to presentkey risks.
72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP LEGAL AND REGULATORY Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Group operates in a highly regulated industry across multiple assessing the controls and processes in place across the Group that assists in the prevention geographical locations.
Each jurisdiction has laws and regulations and detection of non-compliance with laws and regulations, including illegal acts in each of in relation to licensing, data protection, money laundering, thegeographic locations in which the Group operates: customer identication and verication, fraud, direct and indirect gaining an understanding of the Groups arrangements by holding discussions with the taxes, and otherlegislative matters.
Groups in-house and external legal experts and an assessment of policies and procedures It is the responsibility of management, with the oversight of those implemented by the Groups legal and compliance functions: a review of the reports charged with governance, to ensure that the Groups operations undertaken by the Groups legal and external counsel and internal audit function and reviewing are conducted in accordance with the provisions of laws and the controls and processes over new customer account set-up: regulations, including compliance with the provision of laws and obtaining and assessing correspondence between the Group and regulators to ensure the regulation that determine the reported amounts and disclosures in completeness and accuracy of any penalties or fines recorded as a liability: and the Groups financial statements.
using an auditors expert, to check the completeness of the Groups disclosures in relation We therefore identied legal and regulatory compliance as a tolaws and regulations.
signicantrisk, which was one of the most significant assessed The Audit Committee identied legal and regulatory as a significant issue in its report on .
page53, where the Audit Committee also described the action that it has taken to address thisissue.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on the work performed on regulatory environment including the review by our independent specialist, we note that whilst the Group does accept a level of risk, management have put in place an appropriate process for monitoring and managing those risks as applicable.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Directors are required to make an annual assessment to obtaining managements assessment of the relevant CGUs used in the impairment calculation determine whether the Groups goodwill and other intangible prepared by management and comparing those to our understanding of the business assets, which stand at 1,094.3m and 437.3m as disclosed in units and operating structure of the Group and recalculating the arithmetical accuracy of Note 8 in the financial statements, respectively, are impaired.
those calculations including the sensitivity analyses on weighted average costof capital and forecasts: The process for assessing whether impairment exists under International Accounting Standard IAS 36 Impairment of assets testing the assumptions utilised in the impairment models, including growth rates, discount is complex.
The process of determining the value in use, through rates and terminal values.
This included utilising our auditor expert in valuation to consider forecasting cash ows related to cash generating units CGUs whether the assumptions used were appropriate to the relevant CGUs circumstances and, and the determination of the appropriate discount rate and other where possible, benchmarked these assumptions against available industry data: assumptions to be applied can be highly judgemental and can challenging management assessment of impairment indicators relating to intangible assets: signicantly impact the results of the impairment review.
and In particular, we identied that significant management judgement testing the accuracy of managements forecasting of cash ows through a comparison was applied in respect of the reorganisation of goodwill allocation of budget toactual data and historical variance trends and reviewing the cash ows for to CGUs, the amount of goodwill included within the Titan disposal exceptional or unusual items or assumptions.
Group, and the calculation of the value-in-use of those CGUs with The Groups accounting policy on impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets is shown the largest carrying values and those with the lowest headroom.
in note 1.6 to the financial statements and related disclosures are included in note 8.
The Audit We therefore identied the impairment of goodwill and other Committee identied impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets as a significant issue in intangible assets as a significant risk, which was one of the most its report on page 52, where the Audit Committee also described the action that it has taken to significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
KEY OBSERVATIONS We challenged managements rationale for the reorganisation of CGUs and associated goodwill and from our audit procedures that were carried out found this to be in line with the Groups current reporting structure as required by IAS 36.87.
We found that managements allocation of goodwill relating to the businesses sold during the year was appropriate.
We tested managements assessment of the recoverable amount of goodwill both prior to and post the reorganisation, and from the audit procedures performed we found that inboth cases the carrying value was supported.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 73 KEY AUDIT MATTERS GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP REVENUE RECOGNITION OCCURRENCE Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Group enters into high volumes of revenue generating evaluating the design and implementation of certain key controls within the two betting transactions each day, recorded across two in-house systems platforms used by the Group: being MM1 & Target and utilising a number of third-party hosted where the controls were designed and implemented effectively, testing the operating casino platforms.
Revenues from continuing operations of 896.1m effectiveness of certain key controls within the Target platform: from the Consolidated Income Statement have been recognised in where controls were not considered to be designed and implemented effectively we designed the year ended 31 December 2017. additional substantive procedures to address the residual risk of material misstatement: International Standards on Auditing UK prescribe a presumed from each platform, testing of a sample of bets placed during the year, including both sports risk of fraud in revenue recognition in that revenue may be and casino bets, to verify that the event relating to the bet occurred in the year, and that in misstated through improper recognition.
Given this inherent risk the case of winning bets, the payout was correctly calculated and recorded in the customers and the complexity of the systems relied upon, we identied the account: and occurrence of revenue as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant assessed risks ofmaterial misstatement.
evaluating whether the Groups revenue recognition policies are in accordance with IAS18Revenue.
The Groups accounting policy on the recognition of revenue is shown in note1.11 to the financial statements on page 86 and the components of that revenue are shown in note2 onpage 89.
KEY OBSERVATIONS In respect of the primary in-house platform, Target, we found the controls to be designed and operating effectively, and our work was concluded satisfactorily.
In respect of the secondary in-house platform, MM1, we found the controls to be designed and implemented effectively with the exception of some user access controls which could allow inappropriate access.
In response to this nding, we performed additional procedures including full reconciliation of the platform to the accounting system and testing of manual entries within the platform to identify inappropriate postings or changes made.
Additionally when selecting our substantive sample we ensured the number of items tested is reective of the increased risk of material misstatement.
Our work was concluded satisfactorily.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent ofourauditwork and in evaluating the results of that work.
Materiality was determined as follows: MATERIALITY MEASURE GROUP PARENT Financial statements 10.0m 2016: 7.5m, which is 3.7% 2016: 4% of the Groups 7.5m 2016: 5.6m, which is 0.5% of the Parent Companys asawhole operating profit for continuing operations adjusted for share totalassets.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, because this is a non-trading entity which acts as a holding company impairments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial for the Group.
instruments Clean EBITDA including discontinued operations.
Materiality for the current year has been capped at the performance This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because materiality of the Group.
This is higher than the level that we thisis a key measure used by the Directors to report to investors determined for the year ended 31 December 2016 to reect that the onthenancial performance of the Group.
Groups revenue has increased signicantly in the year because of Materiality for the current year is higher than the level that we organic growth.
determined for the year ended 31 December 2016 to reect that the Groups revenue has increased signicantly in the year becauseof organic growth.
Performance materiality 75% of financial statement materiality.
used to drive the extent of our testing Specic materiality We determined a lower level of materiality for certain specic areas We determined a lower level of materiality for certain specic areas such as Directors remuneration and related party transactions.
such as Directors remuneration and related party transactions.
Communication of 500,000 and misstatements below that threshold that, in our 500,000 and misstatements below that threshold that, in our misstatements to the view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audit Committee 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit Other information Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other Groups business and is risk based.
The components of the Group information comprises the information included in the annual report, were identied and evaluated by the Group audit team based on other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
a measure of materiality considering each as a percentage of total Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other Group assets, liabilities, revenues and Clean EBITDA, to assess information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our the signicance of the component and to determine the planned report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our For those components that were determined as significant, either responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, a full-scope or targeted audit approach was determined based on consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent their relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of the audit with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit risk.
For significant components requiring a full-scope approach we or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such evaluated and tested controls over the financial reporting systems material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we identied as part of our risk assessment, reviewed the accounts are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement production process and addressed critical accounting matters.
in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other We sought, wherever possible, to rely on the effectiveness of the information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Groups internal controls in order to reduce substantive testing.
that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are We then undertook substantive testing on significant transactions required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In order to address the audit risks identied during our planning In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our procedures, we performed a full-scope audit of the financial statements responsibility to specically address the following items in the other of the Parent Company, and certain Group entities in the Isle of Man, information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of Gibraltar and the United Kingdom.
We performed targeted procedures the other information where we conclude that those items meet the over the components located in Austria, Malta and Italy on material following conditions: items in the financial information.
The operations that were subject to full-scope or targeted audit procedures made up 100% of consolidated Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 47 the revenues and 100% of Clean EBITDA.
Statutory audits of subsidiaries, statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual where required by local laws, were performed to a lower level of report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced materiality than the determined component materiality.
An interim visit and understandable and provides the information necessary for was conducted before the year end at all significant components of Shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model the Group to complete advance substantive audit procedures and and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained to evaluate the Groups internal controls environment including its IT in the audit: or systems which are based in India.
Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 51 to 55 the section The remaining operations of the Group were subjected to analytical describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately procedures over the Balance Sheet and Income Statements of the address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or related entities with a focus on applicable key audit matters determined Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate and the signicance to the Groups balances.
There has been no Governance Code set out on pages 46 to 47 the parts of the change to the scope of the Group audit from the previous year.
Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating Detailed audit instructions were issued to the auditors of the reporting tothe Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance components where a full-scope or targeted audit approach had been Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in identied.
The instructions detailed the significant risks to be addressed accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose through the audit procedures and the information required to be a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate reported to the Group Audit Team.
The Group Audit Team performed GovernanceCode.
site visits in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar.
Where targeted Responsibilities of Directors for the financial statements components outside of the UK were not physically visited, a review As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities of working papers was conducted remotely.
The Group Audit Team set out on page 47, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of communicated with all component auditors throughout the planning, the financial statements which give a true and fair view, and for such eldwork and concluding stages ofthe audits.
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable In the current year, the Group audit team visited the operations in the the preparation of financial statements that are free from material UKand Gibraltar due to their financial signicance to the Group.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 75 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the nancialstatements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Group financial statements.
We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the Group financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our audit approach is a risk-based approach and is explained more fully in the An overview of the scope of our audit section of our audit report.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters which we are required to address We were first appointed by the Directors in 2010 and were re-appointed after going through an audit tender process in the rsthalf of 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is eight years.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting our audit.
Non-audit services provided to the Group have been disclosed within note 3.3 to the financial statements on page 91.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
MARK HENSHAW FOR AND ON BEHALF OF GRANT THORNTON UK LLP STATUTORY AUDITOR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS LONDON 8 March 2018
