Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WPP plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable In our opinion: law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further the financial statements give a true and fair view of described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys the financial statements section of our report.
affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups and We are independent of the Group and the Parent the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that the Group financial statements have been properly are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the prepared in accordance with International Financial UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, European Union and as issued by the International and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Accounting Standards Board IASB : accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the the Parent Company financial statements have been non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom were not provided to the Group or the Parent company.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the We have audited the financial statements of WPP plc matters current year were: the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group Revenue recognition accounting for media which comprise: volume income the accounting policies: Goodwill Taxation reserves the consolidated income statement excluding the The key audit matters are the same as the prior year.
US Dollar information : Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: financial statements was 105.5 million which was the consolidated cash flow statement: determined on the basis of 5% of pre-tax profit.
the consolidated balance sheet: Scoping Those entities subject to audit provide coverage the consolidated statement of changes in equity: of 78% of the Groups consolidated revenue 2016: the Parent Company profit and loss account, balance 81% and 83% of the Groups consolidated operating sheet and statement of changes in equity: and profit 2016: 84% : achieved through a combination of direct testing and specified audit procedures the related notes 1 to 39. including substantive analytical review procedures performed by the Group auditor and or component The financial reporting framework that has been auditors across the world.
applied in the preparation of the Group financial Significant There have been no significant changes in our changes in our statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by approach compared with the prior year.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Conclusions relating to going concern, Company financial statements is applicable law and principal risks and viability statement United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Going concern Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have reviewed the Strategic report to share owners on page 30 about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months 164 WPPAnnual Report 2017 from the date of approval of the financial statements.
period they have done so and why they consider that We are required to state whether we have anything period to be appropriate, and their statement as to material to add or draw attention to in relation to that whether they have a reasonable expectation that the statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report Group will be able to continue in operation and meet if the statement is materially inconsistent with our its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their knowledge obtained in the audit.
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing We confirm that we have nothing material to report, attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We are also required to report whether the directors Principal risks and viability statement statement relating to the prospects of the Group required Based solely on reading the Strategic report to share owners by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with and considering whether the directors statements were our knowledge obtained in the audit.
consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course We confirm that we have nothing material to report, of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we Key audit matters are required to state whether we have anything material Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional to add or draw attention to in relation to: judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the the disclosures on pages 25-29 that describe the financial statements of the current period and include the principal risks and explain how they are being managed most significant assessed risks of material misstatement or mitigated: whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These the directors confirmation on page 25 that they have matters included those which had the greatest effect on: carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the the Group, including those that would threaten its business audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or These matters were addressed in the context of our the directors explanation on page 30 as to how they audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Revenue recognition accounting for media We have: The results of our volume income testing were Checked that management could demonstrate that satisfactory.
We Assessing the timing of recognition and valuation of persuasive evidence exists in respect of the arrangement consider the timing media volume income earned from media owners is an with the media owner at the time media volume income and valuation of area of complexity and judgement due to the need for is recorded, and viewed this evidence on a sample basis.
media volume management to determine at what point persuasive Challenged the timing of recognition and valuation of media income recognised evidence of agreement with the media owner exists volume income earned from media owners by understanding in the year to be and to interpret the variety of language used in the the rationale for income recognised in the current year in reasonable.
underlying contractual terms with media owners.
Given respect of media investment activity in prior periods and the degree of judgement and complexity involved, we verifying the accounting for arrangements that are nonalso determined that there was a potential for fraud coterminous with the Groups year end.
through possible manipulation of this balance.
Assessed managements interpretation of contractual terms Assessing the valuation of media volume income is with media owners and clients in determining the valuation of also an area of complexity with regards to whether media volume income and determined whether consistent the media volume income is required to be passed judgement has been applied year on year.
back to the client and on what basis to calculate Assessed the ageing of balance sheet provisions for the such passback.
Given the complexity and judgement pass back of media volume income to clients and challenged involved the timing of recognition and the valuation of management where brought forward provisions had media income are considered to be key audit matters.
Refer to page 87 Review of the Audit Committee, Analysed and understood the trend of media volume page 116 accounting policy and page 128 financial income recognised against prior year activity.
165 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WPP plc Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Goodwill We have: The results of our testing were Given the magnitude of the goodwill balance and the Assessed the key assumptions used in the impairment model satisfactory and continued economic uncertainty in certain regions, it for goodwill, including specifically the operating cash flow we concur that the is important to ensure that the goodwill impairment projections, discount rates, and long term growth rates.
assumptions used review is approached in a robust manner to identify Compared these assumptions to externally derived data in the impairment potential impairments, where necessary.
where applicable as well as forming our own assessment.
model, including Determining whether the carrying value of goodwill is Our internal fair value specialists assisted in computing the discount recoverable requires management to make significant an independent assessment of the discount rates used rate, and level estimates concerning the estimated future cash flows and assessing the methodology used in preparing the of goodwill and associated discount rates and growth rates based impairment testing model.
impairment booked on managements view of future business prospects, in the year are Tested the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the including revenue growth and operating margin.
The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given the magnitude of the goodwill balance 2017: 12,952.9 Considered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model million, 2016: 13,214.3 million, and the relative to changes in key assumptions.
sensitivity to certain inputs to the impairment testing We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures process, in particular the discount rate, the valuation in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether of goodwill is considered a key audit matter.
disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the Refer to page 87 Review of the Audit Committee, impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes page 114 accounting policy and page 137 financial in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent disclosures.
Taxation reserves We have: The results of our testing There is uncertainty in respect of resolving matters Discussed and considered all significant taxation exposures were satisfactory.
with tax authorities around the world.
The highly with Group management including their tax specialists.
There were no disaggregated nature of the Group coupled with its Together with our internal taxation specialists we challenged material exceptions acquisitive nature means that there are a number of the estimates and judgements made by management when noted when different tax jurisdictions in which the Group could be calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the corroborating liable to pay tax, making potential tax exposures a key associated provisions held.
Therefore assessing the Groups exposure We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in judgement to the to significant tax risks and the level of provisions significant locations where available, as well as reviewing the correspondence recognised is an area of judgement.
support or opinions received from external counsel and other and support Refer to page 87 Review of the Audit Committee, advisors where management has utilised such opinions to reviewed for page 117 accounting policy and page 132 financial make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement Group materiality 105.5m in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both PBT in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 2,109.3m the results of our work.
Audit Committee reporting threshold 1.5m PBT Group materiality 166 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Based on our professional judgement, we determined misstatement at the Group level, in order to check that materiality for the financial statements as a whole the units selected provide an appropriate basis on which to as follows: undertake audit work to address the identified risks of material misstatement.
Such audit work represents a combination of Company financial procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups Group financial statements statements identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective Materiality 105.5 million 42.2 million manner possible.
Those entities subject to audit provide for 2016: 94.5 million 2016: 47.3 million coverage of 78% of the Groups consolidated revenue 2016: Basis for 5% of profit before tax The basis of materiality determining 2016: 5% of profit is share owners equity, 81% and 83% of the Groups consolidated operating profit materiality before tax taking into account the 2016: 84% achieved through a combination of direct Group materiality.
The testing and specified audit procedures including substantive materiality used is less analytical review procedures performed by the Group than 1% of share owners auditor and or component auditors across the world.
Our audit work at the components is executed at levels of Rationale We have determined that Given the nature of the for the the critical benchmark for Company as a parent materiality appropriate for such components, which in all benchmark the Group was pre-tax company, we consider instances are capped at 50% of Group materiality.
In order applied profit because we consider share owners equity to to support our conclusion that there were no significant this measure to be what be the most appropriate risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial the share owners believe basis for materiality.
We information of the remaining components not subject to to be a key performance have, however, capped indicator for the Group.
the materiality at 40% audit, we tested the consolidation process and carried out We also considered this of Group Materiality.
analytical procedures at the parent entity level using our measure to be suitable bespoke data analytics tool.
having compared to another benchmark: our materiality is approximately How we work closely with component 1% of equity 2016: below auditors 1%.
Materiality is higher The Group audit team plans its visits to component auditors than for the year ended 31 based on a carefully designed programme, which considers December 2016 primarily a variety of factors including size of entity and number of as a result of higher pre-tax profit achieved in 2017. significant risks: this programme is put in place to check that appropriate oversight and guidance is provided to the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would component auditors through a combination of: separately report to the Committee all audit differences in upfront team briefings to all component teams: excess of 1.5 million 2016: 1.0 million for the Group, site visits: as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, central review of documentation: and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report risk assessment discussions and detailed to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we workpaper reviews.
identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
These are designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits all key An overview of the scope of our audit locations across the Group on regular basis.
In addition we As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the Group, assess the competence of our component auditors.
with operations in 112 countries and more than 3,000 offices In years when we do not visit a key location we will: among more than 150 companies within the Group, a include the component audit partner in our team briefing: significant portion of audit planning time is spent so that discuss their risk assessment: and the scope of our work is appropriate to address the Groups review documentation of the findings from their work.
identified risks of material misstatement.
In selecting the components that are in scope each year, we refresh and We also hold quarterly meetings with management at a update our understanding of the Group and its environment, regional and global level in order to update our understanding including obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of the Group and its environment on an on-going basis.
of internal controls, and assessing the risks of material 167 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WPP plc Other information Responsibilities of directors The directors are responsible for the other information.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors The other information comprises the information included responsibilities in respect of the preparation of financial in the annual report, other than the financial statements statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation and our auditors report thereon.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover give a true and fair view, and for such internal control the other information and we do not express any form of as the directors determine is necessary to enable the assurance conclusion thereon.
preparation of financial statements that are free from In connection with our audit of the financial statements, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
our responsibility is to read the other information and, In preparing the financial statements, the directors in doing so, consider whether the other information is are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent materially inconsistent with the financial statements or Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the to be materially misstated.
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to material misstatements, we are required to determine cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other Auditors responsibilities for the audit information.
If, based on the work we have performed, of the financial statements we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about other information, we are required to report that fact.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from In this context, matters that we are specifically required material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
the other information include where we conclude that: Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance by the directors that they consider the annual report and with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or understandable and provides the information necessary error and are considered material if, individually or in for share owners to assess the Groups position and the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to performance, business model and strategy, is materially influence the economic decisions of users taken on inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the basis of these financial statements.
Audit Committee reporting the section describing A further description of our responsibilities for the the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs address matters communicated by us to the Audit website at: frc.
Committee: or This description forms part of our auditors report.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement Use of our report required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys This report is made solely to the companys members, as a compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies containing provisions specified for review by the auditor Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not that we might state to the Companys members those matters properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
168 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Report on other legal and regulatory Directors remuneration requirements Under our engagement letter we are required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration Opinions on other matters prescribed by our that would be required by the UK Companies Act 2006 engagement letter have not been made or the part of the Compensation In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Committee Report to be audited is not in agreement Report to be audited has been properly prepared in with the accounting records and returns.
accordance with the provision of the UK Companies We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in Other matters the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Auditor tenure Directors Report for the financial year for which the The period of total uninterrupted engagement including financial statements are prepared is consistent with previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 the financial statements: and years, having been appointed by the Company at the AGM, the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have following the recommendation of the Audit Committee in been prepared in accordance with applicable legal 2002 and covering the years ending 2002 to 2017. requirements that apply to UK companies.
Consistency of the audit report with the In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the additional report to the Audit Committee Group and of the Parent Company and their environment Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the accordance with ISAs UK.
Richard Muschamp Matters on which we are required to report for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP by exception Recognised Auditor London, United Kingdom Adequacy of explanations received and 24 April 2018 accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
