F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Independent Auditors Report Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Audit scope Our opinion Group audit scoping was performed based on total assets held In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and within each of the eight components in the group covering 100% fair view of the consolidated financial position of F&C Commercial of group total assets.
Our audit opinion covers the financial Property Trust Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together statement of the Group the Group as at 31 December 2017, and of their consolidated financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting based on information provided by the appointed service Standards as adopted by the European Union and have been providers to the Group to whom the board of directors has properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the delegated the provision of certain functions, including F&C Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Investment Business Limited the Investment Manager, BMO REP Asset Management plc the Property Manager and CBRE What we have audited Limited the External Property Valuer or the Valuer.
The Groups consolidated financial statements comprise: We carried out our audit work in Guernsey and UK.
We the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the investments within the Group, the accounting processes and year then ended: controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then Key audit matters ended: Valuation of Investment Properties the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then Risk of fraud in Revenue Recognition ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include Audit scope a summary of significant accounting policies.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and The basis for our opinion assessed the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, we considered where management We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of consolidated financial statements section of our report.
our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Independence Our understanding of the controls environment was informed by We are independent of the Group in accordance with the our review of the controls report available on the Property Manager International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of as well as our enquiries over controls during the audit, however our Ethics for Professional Accountants IESBA Code.
We have fulfilled approach remained predominantly substantive in nature.
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code.
The Group is based in Guernsey and the financial statements are a consolidation of the parent company and its subsidiaries.
The Group holds investment property through its subsidiaries in England Our audit approach and Scotland.
The scope of our audit opinion covers the financial Overview statements of the Group and not the separate financial statements of the individual subsidiaries.
Materiality Overall group materiality was 14.6 million which represents 1% of group total assets.
40 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited AUDITORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT AUDITORS REPORT We engaged the PwC Real Estate team to review the valuation Overall group materiality 14.6 million of investment properties as internal experts.
Their findings are How we determined it 1% of Total Assets documented in the Key Audit Matter Valuation of Investment Rationale for the materiality We believe that Total Assets is the Properties below.
benchmark applied primary measure used by the We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work shareholders in assessing the to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial performance of the Group.
We did not statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the apply a separate specific materiality Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in to the statement of comprehensive which the Group operates.
Our overall materiality was of a level sufficient to address the risk of Materiality material misstatement in revenue.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million, as well Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be reporting for qualitative reasons.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Key audit matters basis of the consolidated financial statements.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group financial statements of the current period.
These matters were materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of Investment Properties Objectivity and experience of the Valuer The Groups Investment Properties comprise retail, office and We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read industrial portfolios and, at 1.39 billion, represent the majority their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether of the assets as at 31 December 2017.
Please see Note 8 to the there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or financial statements.
may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the Valuer in their The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently performance of the valuations was compromised.
subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its location and the expected future rental income External valuations for that particular property.
PwC Real Estate experts attended the initial valuation meeting The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with between the Valuer and the Investment Manager to observe the the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual process and initial discussions covering key developments in the property valuation assumptions, when aggregated, could result in property portfolio.
Furthermore, we analysed movements between material misstatement, is why we have given specific audit focus the draft and final valuation figures to determine where there was and attention to this area.
evidence of undue influence on the Valuers conclusions for each The valuations of the Groups property portfolio were carried property.
No evidence of management bias was identified.
out by the third party valuer CBRE Limited the Valuer.
The We read the valuation reports for all properties and discussed the Valuer was engaged by the Group, and performed its work reports with the Valuer.
We confirmed that the valuation approach in accordance with the RICS Valuation Global Professional for each property was in accordance with RICS Valuation-Global Standards 2017 and the RICS UK valuation standards, Standards 2017 and suitable for use in determining the fair value of appendices and guidance notes 2017.
The Valuer used by the Investment Properties at 31 December 2017.
Group is a well-known chartered surveyor, with experience in the markets in which the Group operates.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 41 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In determining a propertys valuation, the Valuer takes into account It was evident from our discussions with management and the property specific current information such as the current tenancy Valuer and our work surrounding the valuation reports that close agreements and rental income earned by the property.
The Valuer attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics then apply assumptions in relation to capitalisation rates and and its overall quality, geographic location and marketability as a current market rent and growth, based on available market data whole.
and transactions, to arrive at a range of valuation outcomes, from We agreed the property specific information supplied to the Valuers which they derive a point estimate.
Due to the unique nature of by the Group to, on a sample basis, to test whether it reflected the each property, the assumptions applied take into consideration the underlying property records held by the Group.
No issues were individual property characteristics at a tenant level, as well as the identified.
qualities of the property as a whole.
Comparable market information is available for the Groups properties.
The Group has adopted Assumptions the assessed values determined by the Valuers, adjusted for lease Our work over the assumptions encompassed all properties in the incentives.
We engaged our own internal valuation expert to critique and challenge the work performed and assumptions used by the Valuer.
In particular, we compared the valuation metrics used by the Valuer to recent market activity.
We challenged management on significant movements in the valuations.
Due to the subjectivity involved in determining valuations for individual properties and the existence of alternative assumptions and valuation methods, we determined a range of values that were considered reasonable to evaluate the independent property valuations used by management.
We determined that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
Risk of Fraud in Revenue Recognition Substantive testing There exists a risk that management may be incentivised to We obtained a sample of lease agreements and checked that the manipulate reported revenue in order to artificially overstate the associated revenue recognised in the financial statements was perceived yield of the Group to investors.
This risk is increased in consistent with the contractual terms therein.
An assessment was market traded companies due to market pressure to deliver results in reperformed of the accuracy of rent straight-lining calculations line with market expectations.
resulting from rent free periods and other lease incentives.
There are a large number of individual lease agreements held by We selected a sample of turnover leases and checked the the Group with diverse lease terms.
This created a level of inherent mathematical accuracy of the rental calculation.
We also agreed the complexity in the calculation of lease incentives which may increase tenant turnover to independently verified financial information.
the opportunity of fraud to be committed.
In totality 29% of the We performed testing over vacant leases as at year end by number of leases have lease incentives: and 6% of the number of agreeing the vacant properties on the tenancy schedule to leases have capital incentives.
supporting documents with no differences noted.
The lease population also includes a number of turnover leases We tested manual journal entries made in the preparation of the which incorporate a higher level of subjectivity in the calculation of financial statements at year end and manual journals to revenue rental income.
From the total number of leases 2% are turnover nominal accounts throughout the year by agreeing them to leases.
supporting documentation to check the accuracy and validity of the The Group utilises an administrator, which is under common control journal entry.
with the Investment Manager, and hence this implies reduced Our work did not indicate the existence of management bias of inherent segregation within the structure, increasing the opportunity material misstatement due to fraud.
for fraud to occur at the property manager and financial reporting level through the posting of manual journal entries.
42 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited AUDITORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT AUDITORS REPORT Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the Company summary, the Financial Highlights, the Performance Summary, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Model and Strategy, the Key Performance Indicators, the Principal Risks and Future Prospects, the Managers Review, the Responsible Property Investment, the Property Portfolio, the Board of Directors, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Responsibilities, AIFM Disclosures, Notice of Annual General Meeting, the Shareholder Information, the Alternative Performance Measures, the Glossary of Terms, How to Invest and the Corporate Information but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of directors for the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, the requirements of Guernsey law and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 43 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the consolidated financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have reviewed: the directors statement set out on page 30 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern: the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Evelyn Brady For and on behalf of  CI LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 16 April 2018 44 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
