1 RIVERGATE, TEMPLE QUAY Bristol Independent Auditors Report and Financial Statements 52 UKCPT.
CO. UK Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 53 SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK COMMERCIAL Key audit matters Materiality Scoping Significant changes PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED in our approach The key audit matters that we The materiality that All audit work for the identified in the current year were: we used for the group group was performed There are no financial statements directly by the group significant changes In vestment property valuation was 12.1m which was audit engagement in our approach.
determined on the basis team.
R evenue recognition of 1% of Net Asset Value.
T axation Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED In our opinion the financial statements: CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2017 and GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT of the groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Going concern Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and We have reviewed the directors statement on page We confirm that we have nothing material to report, 40 to the financial statements about whether they add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report We have audited the financial statements of if the statement is materially inconsistent with our UK Commercial Property Trust Limited which comprise: knowledge obtained in the audit the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Principal risks and viability statement the Consolidated Balance Sheet: Based solely on reading the directors statements and We confirm that we have nothing material to report, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: considering whether they were consistent with the add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups ability to the related notes 1 to 21. continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law attention to in relation to: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the disclosures on pages 1417 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 14 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten BASIS FOR OPINION its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or We conducted our audit in accordance with FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public International Standards on Auditing UK interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other the directors explanation on page 18 as to how they ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities ethical responsibilities in accordance with these have assessed the prospects of the group, over what under those standards are further described in requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services period they have done so and why they consider the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not that period to be appropriate, and their statement as financial statements section of our report.
provided to the group and the parent company.
to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and We are independent of the group in accordance We believe that the audit evidence we have meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of with the ethical requirements that are relevant to obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide their assessment, including any related disclosures our audit of the financial statements in the UK, a basis for our opinion.
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or including the Financial Reporting Councils assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
54 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 55 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Continued Taxation OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the Key observations key audit matter The majority of the Groups rental income We conclude that the recognition and Investment property valuations is subject to UK Income Tax under the UKs recoverability of the deferred tax asset We reviewed Managements future taxable non-resident landlord scheme.
profits forecasts to determine the rate at is appropriate.
which accumulated tax losses are expected A significant amount of unutilised tax losses Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the Key observations to be utilised, and we assessed the probability are available to be offset against future of recovery over the forecast period: key audit matter taxable rental income.
Valuation of investment properties is the We conclude that the fair value of the Groups We reviewed the tax workings and key driver of the Groups net asset value.
investment properties as determined by the We assessed Managements review of the re-performed calculations of the possible The recognition of a deferred tax asset in Valuations are inherently complex and work of the external valuers: Directors is appropriate.
deferred tax position: respect of those losses is subjective and require significant judgement and estimation We assessed the external valuers depends on the availability of future taxable around the key inputs and assumptions, We enquired with Management and independence, integrity and competence: profits against which those tax losses can be including equivalent yields and market rent.
evaluated their assessment for the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS utilised with sufficient probability.
recognition of a deferred tax asset: and are tho To challeng se that had the gr e the valuation pr eatest effe oc ce t on our audit s ss we trategy, the OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Valuation of the investment property is allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of met with the external valuers to discuss We reviewed the disclosures in the Annual We have identified a key audit matter that the most judgemental area of the financial the engagement team.
the valuation process, performance of the Report.
the deferred tax asset is not being measured statements and therefore the most susceptible portfolio and significant assumptions and correctly with regard to the utilisation of to fraudulent manipulation.
Given the high critical judgement areas.
Assisted by our losses based on future profits forecasts.
level of judgement involved, we have Real Estate specialists, we benchmarked determined that there was a potential for these assumptions to relevant market The Group recognised a deferred tax asset fraud through possible manipulation of evidence including specific property amounting to 3.3m as at 31 December 2017 this balance.
transactions and other external data on 2016: 6.5m a sample basis: The valuation of the investment property We reviewed the completeness and validity Refer to notes 1 g of Accounting Policies on portfolio at 31 December 2017 amounted to of data provided to the valuers: page 64 and note 6 on page 68 of the Notes 1,381m 2016: 1,270m.
Also refer to the We performed audit procedures to assess audit committee report on pages 4748.
Refer to notes 1 b, 1 h of Accounting policies the integrity of information provided to on pages 6465 and note 9 on page 71 of the the external valuers, including testing on Notes to the Financial Statements.
Also refer a sample basis back to underlying lease to the audit committee report on pages 4748. agreements: and We have reviewed the financial statements disclosures.
NAV 1.2bn OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of Key: NAV Group materiality Revenue Recognition misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the Key observations in planning the scope of our audit work and in key audit matter evaluating the results of our work.
There is a key audit matter that rental We conclude that revenue recognition Group materiality income received by the Group is not complete We performed analytical procedures over is appropriate.
Based on our professional judgement, 12.1m or not accurate, taking into account any the Groups rental income for the year: we determined materiality for the financial lease incentives, and thus impacting the statements as a whole as follows: We reviewed the Managers Internal net revenue available for distribution to Controls Report for the operating shareholders.
Group materiality effectiveness of management controls over 12.1m 2016: 11.2m the revenue cycle: Rental income recognised for the year Audit Committee ended 31 December 2017 amounted to We tested on a sample basis the rental Basis for determining materiality reporting threshold 69.8m 2016: 68.5m.
income back to underlying lease 1% of the Net Asset Value, in line with prior year.
0.6m agreements for accuracy and the Refer to notes 1 e of Accounting Policies on apportionment for the current period: Rationale for the benchmark applied page 64 and note 2 on page 67 of the Notes Reviewed calculation of deferred income on to the Financial Statements.
Also refer to the Net Assets is the key balance considered by In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would a sample basis for accuracy and consistency audit committee report on pages 4748. the users of the financial statements which is Adjusted Profit After Tax as a critical performance report to the Committee all audit differences in with the tenancy schedules and: consistent with the market approach for such measure for the Group and a measure which is excess of 0.6m 2016: 0.56m for the group, as entities.
Net Assets was selected as investors are widely used within the Real Estate industry.
We well as differences below that threshold that, in our We reviewed the lease incentive seeking capital appreciation in addition to dividend applied a lower threshold of 2.1m 2016: 2.5m, view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
calculations on a sample basis and tested streams and the net asset value per share is an which equates to 5% of that measure for testing all We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure the data back to lease agreements.
important indicator of performance to investors.
matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
56 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Continued AN OVERVIEW OF THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an of the Groups subsidiaries which are subject to Opinion on other matter prescribed responsible for the preparation of the financial understanding of the Group and its environment, audit at component materiality level, which in by our engagement letter statements and for being satisfied that they give a including internal controls, and assessing the risks many cases is substantially lower than Group In our opinion, the part of the Directors true and fair view, and for such internal control as of material misstatement at the Group level.
We also tested the consolidation Remuneration Report to be audited has been the directors determine is necessary to enable the process and carried out analytical procedures Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior properly prepared in accordance with the provisions preparation of financial statements that are free Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, to confirm our conclusion that there were no of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had from material misstatement, whether due as the books and records for each entity within the significant risks of material misstatement of the applied to the company.
Group are maintained at head office.
We audit all aggregated financial information.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE are responsible for assessing the groups ability REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and OTHER INFORMATION using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or Adequacy of explanations received and to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative accounting records but to do so.
Under the Companies Guernsey Law, The directors are responsible for the other In this context, matters that we are specifically 2008 we are required to report to you if, AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE information.
The other information comprises required to report to you as uncorrected material in our opinion: the information included in the annual report misstatements of the other information include AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS we have not received all the information including the Strategic Report, Report of the where we conclude that: and explanations we require for our Directors, Corporate Governance Report, Audit Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance Fair, balanced and understandable the audit: or Committee Report, Directors Remuneration about whether the financial statements as a whole statement given by the directors that they Report and Directors Responsibility Statement are free from material misstatement, whether due adequate accounting records have not consider the annual report and financial other than the financial statements and our to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report been kept by the parent company: or statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and auditors report thereon.
Reasonable assurance is understandable and provides the information the financial statements are not in a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Our opinion on the financial statements does not necessary for shareholders to assess the groups agreement with the accounting records an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK cover the other information and we do not express position and performance, business model and and returns.
will always detect a material misstatement when it any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
strategy, is materially inconsistent with our exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error knowledge obtained in the audit: or In connection with our audit of the financial and are considered material if, individually or in statements, our responsibility is to read the other Audit committee reporting the section the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to We have nothing to report in respect of information and, in doing so, consider whether describing the work of the audit committee influence the economic decisions of users taken on these matters.
the other information is materially inconsistent does not appropriately address matters the basis of these financial statements.
with the financial statements or our knowledge communicated by us to the audit committee: or obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be A further description of our responsibilities for Directors statement of compliance with the materially misstated.
the audit of the financial statements is located UK Corporate Governance Code the parts OTHER MATTERS on the Financial Reporting Councils website If we identify such material inconsistencies of the directors statement required under at: www.
or apparent material misstatements, we are the Listing Rules relating to the companys Auditor tenure This description forms part of our auditors report.
required to determine whether there is a material compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Following the recommendation of the audit misstatement in the financial statements or a Code containing provisions specified for review committee, we were appointed by the board of material misstatement of the other information.
by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule USE OF OUR REPORT directors on 16 August 2016 to audit the financial If, based on the work we have performed, we 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 conclude that there is a material misstatement from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate This report is made solely to the companys members, and subsequent financial periods.
The period of of this other information, we are required to Governance Code.
as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the total uninterrupted engagement including previous report that fact.
Our audit work renewals and reappointments of the firm is two has been undertaken so that we might state to the years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 companys members those matters we are required to 31 December 2017. to state to them in an auditors report and or those matters we have expressly agreed to report Consistency of the audit report with the additional We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to them on in our engagement letter and for no report to the audit committee other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional anyone other than the company and the companys report to the audit committee we are required to members as a body, for our audit work, for this provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
John Clacy Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor St Peter Port, Guernsey 26 April 2018 58 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
