qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 70 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We have audited the financial statements of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited the company which comprise: the income statement: the balance sheet: the statement of changes in equity: the cash ow statement: and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matter that we identied in the current year was: The assessment of the fair value of investments Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 19.7m which was determined on the basis of shareholders equity.
Scoping As the company is required to measure its subsidiaries at fair value rather than consolidate on a line-by-line basis, the company has been treated as having only one component.
significant changes There has been no change in approach for the current period.
in our approach 70 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 71 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in Note 2 b to the financial We confirm that we have nothing statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going material to report, add or draw concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any attention to in respect of these material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period matters.
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they We confirm that we have nothing were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, material to report, add or draw including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment attention to in respect of these of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state matters.
whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 40 to 44 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' conrmation on page 57 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 56 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 71 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 72 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited continued Assessment of the fair value of investments Key audit matter The companys investments held at fair value, comprise of investments in intermediate holding description companies and equity and subordinated debt interests in wind farm and solar park projects for which there is no liquid market and which are valued on a discounted cash ow basis.
The companys portfolio continues to grow, with 155.5m of further investment during the year, funded through issue of equity and a drawdown of the Groups revolving acquisition facility.
The year-end valuation of 973.3 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 817.8m requires significant judgements in respect of the forecast cash ows and discount rates applied.
The judgements in respect of forecast cash ows include assumptions around future energy yields, power prices, ination, tax rates, exchange rates and operating costs.
The Audit Committee have set out their consideration of the risk on page 67 and it is disclosed as a critical accounting judgement in note 3 of the financial statements.
A breakdown of the investments and the assumptions applied to the valuation are described in note 4.
How the scope of our Our audit is directed to considering the evidence available to support these assumptions and the audit responded to sensitivity of the valuation to reasonably possible changes in these assumptions.
the key audit matter We critically assessed these assumptions and the fund valuation model in which they are applied in determining the fair value.
Our audit procedures included: holding key meetings with key personnel, including the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager: understanding and reviewing the design and implementation of internal controls around updates to the valuation model used at 31 December 2017: reviewing the independent advice received by the company in respect of energy yields, power prices and discount rates and meeting with those advisers where appropriate to understand the methodology used and challenge key assumptions through the use of benchmarking against third party sources: using our own Deloitte internal valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rates against comparable market participants: reviewing the share purchase agreements for any newly acquired assets in order to confirm the acquisition cost and the nature and amount of any deferred consideration that may be embedded in the valuation: using macroeconomic data including ination and tax rate forecasts and observable market data to benchmark key assumptions: testing the incorporation of the assumptions into the valuation model and the correct application of the selected discount rates: reviewing cash ow projections, focusing on changes since the previous reporting date or the date of acquisition for current period assets acquired, substantiating any contracted revenues and costs and comparison against actual historical results for the underlying investments: and reviewing the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements.
Key observations Using macroeconomic data including ination and tax rate forecasts and other observable market data to benchmark the key assumptions and discount rates, we concluded that in aggregate the assumptions are within the acceptable range of reasonably possible alternatives and none of the assumptions tested individually fell outside the acceptable threshold.
72 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 73 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 19.7m 2016: 15.4m Basis for determining 2% 2016: less than 2% of shareholders equity.
materiality Rationale for the We consider equity to be the key benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing benchmark applied financial performance.
The reason for the significant increase in the year relates to the growth in this benchmark throughout the period.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 983,000 2016:770,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As the company is required to measure its subsidiaries at fair value rather than consolidate on a line-by-line basis, the company has been treated as having only one component.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report in respect of comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial these matters.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 73 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 74 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited continued Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, We have nothing to report in respect of in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the company: or the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records 74 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 75 Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Audit Committee on 19 September 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the rm is 5 years, covering the years ending 31December 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
David Becker Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 19 February 2018 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 75
