STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of 888 Holdings plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: 888 Holdings plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of 888 Holdings plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 10 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 26 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 and our engagement letter dated 23 January 2018.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 19 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 18 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 60 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 44 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Regulatory and legal risks Taxation Income taxes Revenue recognition Capitalisation of development costs Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of two components, one being a subsidiary in Israel and the other being the remainder of the Group.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for the entirety of Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charger, Revenue and Total assets.
Materiality Overall group materiality of $3.4m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for Exceptional charges.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 82 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THEAUDITCOMMITTEE Regulatory and legal risks During 2017 the group recorded a We understood the groups process Based on our audit procedures on provision of US$45.3 million and and related controls over the the Groups accounting conclusions disclosed a contingent liability identification and mitigation of in each of its major jurisdictions, we of US$18.5 million in respect of a regulatory and legal risks and the concluded that the provision in respect potential historical VAT charge.
The related accounting, and assessed of potential historical VAT charge group also recorded US$5.5 million whether the controls are designed and accruals for amounts payable to for a UKGC payments in lieu of fine.
regulatory authorities are appropriate, Given the industry and jurisdictions Based on the groups correspondence within an acceptable range and that the in which the Group operates, as with regulators and any legal disclosures in the financial statements described in the Principal Risks and advice the group has received, were appropriate.
Uncertainties on page 18, there is we understood managements We did not identify any matters a risk that the Group will operate interpretation and application of as a result of our walkthrough and without an appropriate licence, relevant laws and regulations.
additional procedures in respect of UK have an existing licence adversely With support from our own indirect Regulatory compliance and internal affected or be subject to other tax experts, we challenged the controls improvements introduced regulatory sanctions.
appropriateness of managements following the UKGC Licence review.
Judgement is also applied in assumptions and estimates in We concluded that the provision estimating amounts payable to relation to German VAT provision and recorded in the financial statements regulatory authorities in certain contingent liability, as well as accruals is appropriate.
This gives rise to a risk with reference to historical payments over the accuracy of accruals and made by the group and the period to disclosure of contingent liabilities.
which any provisions, contingent and There is also a risk that management accrued liabilities relate.
may influence these significant We have checked the German estimates and judgements in order to VAT provision and contingent meet market expectations or bonus liability calculation and assessed its targets.
Following the United Kingdom We inquired of management and Gambling Commission UKGC HFN, the groups legal advisers, Licence review, management has about any known instances of undertaken significant enhancements material breaches in regulatory or and improvements of the groups licence compliance that needed to processes and controls in respect of be disclosed or required accruals UK Gambling Regulation compliance, to be recorded.
particularly in respect of customers We particularly focused on the UKGC self-exclusion and responsible licence review completed in 2017 and gaming.
Refer to Corporate the remedial actions undertaken by Responsibility section on page 32. management to address the issues identified.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report We also reviewed other regulatory page 71 : significant accounting correspondence and enquiries made policies note 2 on page 94 : and through the year, managements notes 5 and 26 to the Consolidated response and their assessment of Financial Statements pages potential exposure as at 31 December 104 and 124.
We performed additional walkthrough and audit testing procedures in respect of certain of the enhancements and improvements undertaken by management.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THEAUDITCOMMITTEE Taxation The Group recognised a taxation We discussed with management We concluded that managements charge of US$6.2 million in 2017 and its legal and tax advisers, with judgements in relation to the taxation 2016: US$7.7 million and had support from our tax experts, how charge, provisions for taxation and the income tax receivable of US$1.1 the Group manages and controls related disclosures were appropriate.
million 2016: US$1.1 million and the companies in countries in which payable of US$4.1 million at 31 it operates.
We checked the groups The Group operates in a number of correspondence with the relevant countries, resulting in complexities in tax authorities where applicable, the payment of and accounting for in order to support the tax position tax, particularly related to Transfer of the Group.
The With support from our international Group faces a risk that given the tax experts we understood international nature of its operations, managements interpretation and material tax exposures may not be application of relevant tax law appropriately provided or disclosed and, based on our experience in the financial statements.
challenged the appropriateness of its assumptions and estimates in relation to taxation charge, tax receivable and Refer to the Audit Committee Report tax payable.
page 77 : significant accounting policies note 2 on page 94 : and notes We also compared the prior year estimate to amounts actually paid.
8 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 107 and 114.
We considered whether the Groups disclosure of its tax estimates were in accordance with IFRS requirements.
Revenue recognition The Group recognised revenue We understood and tested the key We concluded that the revenue of US$541.8 million in 2017 application and manual controls recognised in the year, including in 2016: US$520.8 million.
over the groups principal gaming respect of its B2B contracts and the systems and then applying IT-based treatment of certain customer bonuses, The Group makes a number of auditing techniques to re-perform the is materially correct.
judgements in recognising revenue, reconciliation between the groups principally in respect of whether gaming revenue, cash and customer the Group is acting as a principal accounts and to check the revenue or an agent with its B2B customers split by geographic areas.
and whether certain customer bonuses are treated as a deduction We read the Groups contractual from revenue or as a cost.
Any arrangements and observed how inappropriate judgements could they operate in practice to re-assess result in a material misstatement of managements judgement as to revenue and operating expenses.
whether the Group was operating as a principal or an agent in its B2B There is also a risk that management contracts with customers, in the may override controls to influence context of the guidance in IAS 18. the significant judgements in respect of revenue recognition in order to We challenged the treatment of these meet market expectations.
customer bonuses by considering the customers contractual obligations in respect of these bonuses to provide Refer to the significant accounting marketing services.
policies note 2 on page 94 : and We performed detailed substantive note 3 to the Consolidated Financial testing and cut-off procedures on a Statements page 102. sample of revenue transactions for each revenue stream.
We also agreed a sample of revenue transactions to customers cash deposits and withdrawals.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 84 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THEAUDITCOMMITTEE Capitalisation of development costs The Group capitalised development We understood and tested the We concluded that the Groups costs of US$11.2 million in 2017 process and key controls over the capitalisation of development costs 2016: US$10.6 million and had net Groups capitalisation of internal during 2017 was appropriate and in capitalised development costs of development costs, including its accordance with IAS 38.
US$29 million at 31 December 2017 payroll and purchasing systems.
We also tested capitalised The capitalisation of costs associated internal payroll costs and external with the development of the Groups supplier costs on a sample of systems, in accordance with the development projects.
criteria set out in IFRS, involves For development projects capitalised significant management judgement in the year, we made enquiries and is therefore an area of focus for of management with respect to our audit.
technical feasibility and inspected There is a risk that costs are technical reports for a sample of capitalised inappropriately, affecting projects to challenge whether the the Groups profitability.
There is also Group met the conditions set out a risk that management may override in IAS 38 for capitalisation.
controls to influence the significant We considered the impact of the judgements in respect of the capitalisation of development costs capitalisation of development costs in on the Groups achievement of bonus order to meet market expectations or targets and analysts expectations.
We compared the useful lives of capitalised development costs to Refer to the significant accounting the Groups business plans for each policies note 2 on page 94 : and development project and to historical note 11 to the Consolidated Financial experience of project lives in the Statements page 109. online gaming industry.
We checked that where projects are not yet in use and no amortisation has been charged, they are still expected to be implemented and meet the conditions set out in IAS 38.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group operates from a small number of locations and as an online gaming operator the Groups accounting is centrally managed.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we determined that there were two components, one being a subsidiary in Israel and the other being the remainder of the Group.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of both of these components full scope.
The components we audited therefore account for the entirety of the Groups revenue, profit before tax and total assets.
This is consistent with our approach in the prior year.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
The Israeli subsidiary was subject to a full scope audit by a component team in Israel and the remainder of the Group was audited directly, as a full scope audit, by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team performed the majority of its audit fieldwork in Israel and Gibraltar.
Non-statutory and statutory audit partners visited both locations at the planning, interim and year end phases of the audit.
During these visits they attended audit planning and closing meetings, the Groups Audit Committee meetings and conducted and reviewed audit work.
For the Israeli subsidiary, in addition to the location visits the Group audit team interacted with the component audit team regularly during the various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers, participated in the component teams planning, including its discussion of fraud and error and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The allocation of responsibilities between the Group audit team and the Israeli component team was such that the audit work on each of the areas of risk described above was led by the Group audit team.
This gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$3.4 million 2016: US$3.2 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for Exceptional charges.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the Exceptional charges described below, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the Group.
The increase from the prior year predominately reflects the continued growth achieved by the Group.
Profit before tax - US$18.8 million 2016: US$59.2 million Starting basis Adjustments Exceptional charges - US$50.8m US$3.9 million.
Includes Potential historical VAT charge - US$45.3 million and UKGC-payments in lieu fine US$5.5 million 2016: retroactive duties and associated charges - US$3.0 million and exceptional legal and professional costs - US$0.9 million.
Materiality Totals profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charges US$69.6 million 2016: US$63.1 million.
Materiality of US$ 3.4 million 2016: US$3.2 million, representing 5% of materiality basis 2016: 5%.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 86 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM MATERIALITY continued We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be $US1.0 million 2016: $US1.8 million, which is 2% 2016: 2% of net assets.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and did not identify significant changes.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$2.5 million 2016: US$2.4 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit, low number of misstatements and overall effective internal controls.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to Israeli component was US$1.4 million 2016: US$1.3 million.
The audit work on the remainder of the Group was undertaken using Group materiality.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$168,000 2016: US$160,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 01 to 45, including Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 46 to 80, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on pages 53 to 54 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 77 to 80 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 55 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
Opinions on other matters as per the terms of our engagement letter with the Company In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared with the basis of preparation described therein: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or there are material misstatements in the Directors Report based on our knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception as per the terms of our engagement letter with the Company In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have been instructed to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 53 to 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 88 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud continued Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are those related to Gambling Regulations and related gaming and indirect taxes in different countries where the group is operating, including the UK, Spain and Germany and other countries, those related to relevant tax compliance regulations in Gibraltar and Israel and related to the financial reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, UK Corporate Governance Code, Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange and the Bribery Act 2010.
We understood how 888 Holdings plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and the companys legal counsel HFN.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, discussion with Audit Committee and any correspondence with regulatory bodies, our audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and legal risk and Taxation significant risks, as described above.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journal entries.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and legal risk and Taxation significant risks as described above, as well as review of board minutes to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations, review of reporting to the Audit Committee on compliance with regulations and enquires of the management and HFN.
In respect to the Israeli component, any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were communicated to the Primary team as they arose and were followed up with management by the Primary team.
The group operates in the gaming industry which is a highly regulated environment.
The non-statutory audit partner has specialised in the betting and gaming sector for many years and has experience of working with both online and physical gaming operators in a variety of regulatory environments.
He reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of a specialist where appropriate.
The team had discussions during planning and throughout the audit in respect of the evolving gaming regulatory environment and the audit engagement partner provided briefings regarding the UKGC Licence review to the team.
As part of our audit procedures we identified non-compliance with UK Gambling Regulation in respect of customers selfexclusion process and responsible gaming.
We had discussions with management and legal counsel to assess and understand the implications on our audit procedures.
We revised our audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and legal risk significant risk as described above in key audit matters section.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 09 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and no subsequent financial periods.
We signed an engagement letter on 23 January 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is four years, covering the years ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
The maintenance and integrity of the 888 Holdings plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cameron Cartmell Jose Julio Pisharello Non-Statutory Auditor Statutory Auditor Ernst & Young LLP For and on behalf of EY Limited, Registered Auditors London Gibraltar 20 March 2018 20 March 2018 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 89
