PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 36 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZCussonsPlc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, PZ Cussons Plcs Group Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The Financial Statements, included within the Strategic Report 2017 and the Governance and Financial Statements 2017 together the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 May 2017: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 5m which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax andexceptional items.
Materiality We conducted audit work in the six countries in which the Group has significant operations.
The reporting units we audited accounted for 75% of Group revenue and 88% of Group profit Audit scope before tax and exceptional items.
The Group engagement team visited the Groups largest overseas component, Nigeria, todiscuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit team and local management aswell as attending the audit clearance meetings.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment.
Areas of focus Accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items.
Accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other trade promotional spend.
Determination of direct tax provisions.
Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension scheme obligations.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 37 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the process by which the Directors prepared their cash Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment flow forecasts and compared them against the latest Board approved Refer to page 30 of the Report on Corporate Governance, page 51 of forecasts and found them to be consistent.
the statement of accounting policies and note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasts by comparing the forecasts used in the prior year value-in-use models to the actual The Group has goodwill of 63.1m and other intangible assets with an performance of the CGUs in the current year.
These procedures indefinite life of 295.5m as at 31 May 2017 which are required to be enabled us to determine the accuracy of the Directors forecasting tested for impairment on an annual basis.
The directors have allocated process.
When comparing the prior year forecasts to the actual these assets to individual cash generating units CGUs.
performance in FY17, we considered why some forecasts were There is further judgement around the determination of the notmetand factored this into other areas of our work.
recoverable amount of the CGUs, being the higher of value-in-use We evaluated the assumptions used in the profit and cash flow andfair value less costs to dispose.
We focused on this area because forecasts included in the Directors value-in-use calculations.
We the determination of the recoverable amounts involves judgements compared forecast growth rates with historical performance as well and estimates based on the Directors assessment of the future results asgaining an understanding of key factors and judgements applied in and prospects of the CGUs, the appropriate discount rates and other determining the future growth rates.
We inspected detailed forecasts key assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth rates in the for each CGU which provided evidence of the key drivers for growth short and long term, to be applied and specific risk factors applied included within the profit and cash flow forecasts.
We assessed the appropriateness of the Directors discount rates As the Groups CGUs relate to different geographies, including the UK, bycomparing the rate used for each CGU to our own independently Nigeria, Greece and Australia, specific consideration needs to be given determined range of what we would consider to be acceptable.
For to macroeconomic and CGU specific risks in determining the most Nutricima, Raffertys Garden and five:am, the discount rates used were appropriate assumptions to adopt.
Specific risk factors in Nigeria slightly outside of our expected range.
We have considered the impact include currency risk, inflation differentials and country risk premium of this through our own sensitivity analysis, and whilst using a discount due to the trading environment in Nigeria.
rate that we would consider to be more appropriate for Nutricima, Raffertys Garden and five:am would reduce the headroom within each CGU, it would not result in an impairment.
We challenged the Directors on the appropriateness of their sensitivity calculations and also applied our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows and long-term growth rates to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually, or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets.
On this basis we concluded that the Directors assessment that no impairment was required to be appropriate.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 38 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZCussonsPlc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We challenged the Directors rationale for the designation of certain Accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items items as exceptional and assessed such items against the Groups Refer to page 30 of the Report on Corporate Governance, page 50 accounting policy and consistency of treatment with prior periods.
ofthe statement of accounting policies and note 3 of the Consolidated Weconsidered the items identified to materially meet the Groups Financial Statements.
definition of exceptional items and specifically considered the nature In recent years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional items of the systems and structure costs and considered them to be which are disclosed separately within the Income Statement and are exceptional in nature given the overall scale and magnitude of excluded from the Directors reporting of the underlying performance costs incurred.
The partial recovery of a trade receivable in Europe was agreed as The nature and reporting of these exceptional items is explained exceptional as this is consistent with where the original impairment within the Group accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, charge was recognised in the prior year.
gains or losses arising on acquisitions or disposals and gains and losses The foreign exchange loss suffered in Nigeria arose as a result of a resulting from non-recurring and one off events.
change in the government controlled exchange rate regime which This year the Group identified, before taxation, 15.5m of exceptional caused a revaluation of US Dollar denominated liabilities and required costs which relate to: the Group to acquire US Dollars from secondary markets.
Given the 6.6m of costs incurred as part of the Groups structure and systems restrictions in place and the magnitude of the loss, we agree with the improvement programmes: Directors conclusion that the loss met the Groups definition of an a one off foreign exchange loss in Nigeria, of 12.0m, due to imposed exceptional cost.
currency restrictions: and We considered whether there were items that were recorded within a part reversal of a previously written off bad debt in respect of underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in nature and amajor European customer, which resulted in a credit of 3.1m.
should have been included within exceptional items and found no such items.
We focused on this area, specifically to assess whether the items identified by the Directors meet the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, because the identification of such items requires judgement by the Directors.
Also, consistency in the identification and presentation of these itemsis important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting.
Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the Accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other controls and systems related to the trade spend process and trade promotional spend selectively testing those controls we identified as being key and Refer to page 30 of the Report on Corporate Governance, page 58 onwhich we planned to rely.
Testing of controls included checking of the statement of accounting policies.
appropriate authorisation for promotions and rebates and controls As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates, over the matching of customer claims against accrued amounts.
but primarily in the UK and Australia, there are numerous types of Nosignificant control deficiencies were identified.
complex commercial arrangements trade spend promotions As part of our involvement in component teams work, the Group withretailers and other customers that have a range of terms engagement team was specifically involved in determining the audit suchaspromotions, rebates and discounts.
approach in this area to be satisfied that sufficient focus was placed Estimates of the obligations at a reporting date in connection with onthe more judgemental areas.
As a result of this involvement we these arrangements trade spend accruals are material and can were satisfied that, whilst complex, the area was well understood bejudgemental.
The judgements applied impact the reported results andsufficient focus was placed on this area of risk.
of the reporting unit, its operating segment and the Group, and in Audit procedures performed by individual component audit teams particular impact the calculation of revenue and reporting unit included the following testing on a sample basis: operating profit.
evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade accruals balances by Trade spend promotions have varying terms, some of which are comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred.
The testing supported by annual contracts, and others which are based on performed highlighted no material differences: shorter-term arrangements entered into during the year.
In addition, agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting documentation the level and timing of promotions varies from period to period, and such as promotion and rebate agreements and EPOS data.
Testing activity can span over a year end.
performed found that estimates were supported by appropriate We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of judgement supporting evidence: required in order to derive the estimates: for example the date of testing trade spend transactions around the year end to determine shipment to the retailer and period over which the promotion will run whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Testing may differ, and details of the retailers EPOS data may be required in performed found no material amounts had been recognised in the order to determine the proportion of trade spend actually committed incorrect period: at the reporting date.
Accordingly, our focus included whether the testing of post year end claims from customers and post year end accruals were complete, whether relevant spend was recorded in the credit notes raised and agreeing that where claims credit notes correct period and how the accruals and income statement charges related to pre year end promotions, they had been adequately were valued.
Testing performed did not identify any material un-provided for amounts: and testing aged customer receivable balances to identify any amounts that remained unpaid as trade spend deductions had been taken.
Where identified, the amounts were tested to check that corresponding accruals existed.
Testing performed did not identify any material un-provided for amounts.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 39 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy Determination of direct tax provisions andassessed key tax risks related to business and legislative Refer to page 30 of the Report on Corporate Governance, page 54 of developments.
We understood material and one off transactions the statement of accounting policies and note 7 of the Consolidated undertaken by the Group, in conjunction with our tax experts, Financial Statements.
toassess any potential tax risk not identified and provided for The Group operates in a number of overseas territories, including bytheDirectors, and none were identified.
some with rapidly developing or highly ambiguous tax legislation, We obtained explanations from the Directors and obtained andregularly undertakes transactions with potentially complex corroborative evidence, including communication with local tax orsubjective tax implications.
This includes, but is not limited to, authorities where available and copies of tax advice obtained acquisitions, disposals, reorganisations and inter-group cross border from its external tax advisors, regarding the tax treatment applied trading arrangements.
Where the amount of tax payable or receivable tomaterial transactions and the corresponding provisions recorded.
is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on the Directors best estimates of the probable amount payable, or receivable.
We challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in territories where structuring transactions have occurred: having We focused on the judgements made by the Directors in assessing dueregard to correspondence between the Group and local tax thequantification and likelihood of these potential exposures and authorities.
We considered the direct tax provisions in place to therefore the level of provisions required against them.
beappropriate on the basis of the Directors best estimate of the information available, and the territories in which the Group operates.
For the UK and Indonesian defined benefit pension plans, we Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit challenged the reasonableness of key actuarial assumptions as follows: pension scheme obligations we compared the discount and inflation rates to our internally Refer to page 30 of the Report on Corporate Governance, page 57 of developed benchmarks based on market conditions and the statement of accounting policies and note 24 of the Consolidated expectations at the Balance Sheet date: and Financial Statements.
we assessed other assumptions, including pension increases, salary The Group operates material defined benefit pension plans in the UK increases and mortality, based on market conditions and comparison and certain overseas territories, principally Indonesia.
A net overall across the wider pensions industry.
surplus of 37.5m is recognised in the Financial Statements.
The Group We also tested whether the methods used by the Directors to employs independent actuarial specialists in calculating the valuation determine key assumptions had been consistently applied year-onof scheme liabilities.
year and evaluated the rationale for any changes in approach.
We We focused on this area because the magnitude of the gross pension tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing liability for accuracy, plan liabilities is significant in the context of both the overall Balance taking into account the movements in key assumptions over the year Sheet and the results of the Group.
and any changes made to benefits provided within the plans.
Measurement of the pension plan liabilities requires a significant The results of our audit work indicated that the financial and levelof judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate demographic assumptions used by the Directors were within assumptions.
Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact areasonable range.
on the gross liability recorded.
We performed testing over the design and operating effectiveness Implementation of SAP ofIT general controls in place over SAP which focused on controls The Group began the implementation of SAP as its new Global ERP covering system changes, user access and segregation of duties.
system in 2015 and the roll out of SAP to all of the Groups operating Testing over the controls identified certain areas where we amended units was substantially complete as at 31 May 2017.
During the year our audit approach accordingly to increase the level of substantive ended 31 May 2017 the Group operating units in Nigeria, Ghana testing being performed in the effected operating units.
andKenya transitioned to SAP, with the Groups operating units in Indonesia, Thailand and MESA having transitioned in the prior year.
We obtained an understanding of the process and controls in place over the migration of data from the legacy systems to SAP and The continued rollout of SAP gives rise to a heightened risk over identified no control deficiencies.
We performed substantive testing financial reporting as a result of the increased complexity of the to ensure data from the legacy system had been accurately migrated system, changes in business and accounting process and the need to to SAP, which included agreeing closing financial data from the legacy ensure stringent access and segregation of duties controls.
The risk system to the opening financial data loaded into SAP, and did not identified was in respect of the following areas: identify any discrepancies.
the risk that data is not accurately migrated between the legacy system and SAP, resulting in incorrect opening financial information: We performed increased levels of journal entry testing, with a specific and assessment of the users posting journal entries, and whether these were in line with our understanding of their role, as well as testing the risk that access rights and segregation of duties are not thejournal entries back to supporting documentation, with no appropriately controlled such that changes to data could be exceptions identified.
These areas of risk could result in the inaccurate reporting of financial We tailored our audit approach so that increased levels of substantive information.
testing were performed across all Income Statement and Balance Sheet line items, focused on tests of detail and agreeing transactions and balances back to supporting documentation, with no material matters identified.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 40 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZCussonsPlc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group has operations in a range of different geographies and is structured across three main regions being Africa Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana, Europe defined by the Group as the UK, Poland, Greece and USA and Asia Indonesia, Australia, Thailand, MESA and Singapore.
Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions consists of a number of management reporting units which are consolidated by the Group.
The Financial Statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units representing the Groups operating businesses within these geographic-based segments and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified thirteen reporting units from across the three geographical regions which required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted for 75% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items and 88% of the Groups revenue.
Nine of the thirteen reporting units are audited by five component Auditor teams, with the remaining four audited by the Group engagement team.
The Group engagement team visited one of the five local component teams, being the largest overseas component, Nigeria, to meet with local management, discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit team, as well as attending the audit clearance meetings.
For those countries not visited, we attended the audit clearance meetings via conference call and had regular communication with the local teams during their audit.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings, review anddiscussion of reporting received from local component teams, together with the work performed at a Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extentof our audit procedures on the individual Financial Statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect ofmisstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 5m 2016: 5m.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark Profit before tax and exceptional items was selected as this provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis applied for determining materiality and, we believe, is the metric most commonly used by Shareholders as a body inassessing Group performance.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 250,000 2016: 250,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 32, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
Aspart of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not allfuture events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 41 Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, weare required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Report on Corporate Governance set out on page 33 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared inaccordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Report on Corporate Governance set out on page 27 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, weare required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Report on Corporate Governance.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 34, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members toassess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 29 to 31, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 42 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZCussonsPlc continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 29 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, addortodraw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 32 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have addortodraw attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors Statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information andexplanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Report on Corporate Governance relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 43 What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our ownjudgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Report of the Directors and Report on Corporate Governance, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company Financial Statements of PZCussonsPlc for the year ended 31 May 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 25 July 2017
