SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report on the financial statements Strategic Report Our opinion Independent In our opinion: Our SuperGroup Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Governance view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 29 April 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and Auditors the Companys cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: Financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Statements IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Report.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and to the members of SuperGroup Plc the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 29 April 2017: the Group statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the Group and Company cash flow statements for the period then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
co. uk 97 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our audit approach Overview Independent Overall Group materiality: 4.4 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before income tax.
We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of four reporting units: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc due to their size and Materiality Auditors risk characteristics.
In addition, we conducted the full scope audits of four reporting units located in Germany, Belgium, Ireland and the US such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Report.
Audit scope Inventory, accounts receivable, revenue returns and property provisions to the members of SuperGroup Plc Recognition of deferred tax assets Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk 98 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Strategic Report We evaluated the slow moving and obsolete inventory provision by testing the Inventory, accounts receivable, revenue returns Independent season ageing of inventory at the balance sheet date and then recalculating and property provisions the provision required with reference to the Group policy.
We also challenged Our Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 67, the critical accounting the Group policy for provision rates by reference to historical evidence of Governance estimates and judgements in note 2 to the Group and Company financial selling inventory below cost and or actual inventory write downs.
Auditors statements on page 117, note 22 for inventory, note 23 for accounts We evaluated the provision for accounts receivable balances by testing the receivable and note 27 for provisions.
Financial ageing of amounts due at the balance sheet date to understand and quantify Statements The valuation of inventory involves judgement in recording provisions for the potential risk in overdue balances.
Recoverability was then tested by slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group accounting policy is based vouching cash receipts after the year end date.
For amounts that were past Report.
upon the ageing of inventory by season, with a percentage provision applied due and not yet recovered, we understood and challenged the provision which reflects the actual historical rate of losses made.
In addition, specific requirements with reference to that customers historic payment performance, provisions are made for known product quality issues and product ranges to the members of SuperGroup Plc any credit insurance or bank guarantees in place, and the wider macrowhich management consider are unlikely to be sold via regular clearance economic situation.
We also tested bad debt write offs in the period and channels.
This requires management judgement to assess the quality of the compared this amount to the provision held at year-end.
products provided for and the expected realisable value.
We evaluated revenue returns provisions by testing the expected returns Accounts receivable provisions involve judgement in determining the rate across the wholesale, retail and e-commerce channels and the gross recoverability of receivables.
Provisions are made for specific known issues margin amounts as applied to the provision.
We also understood the rights such as counterparty risk.
of customers to return goods, tested the amount of returns received in the period and post year-end and then compared that to the return rate per the Revenue returns provisions involve judgement in determining the expected provision calculation.
amount of returns to be received subsequent to the year-end date.
We evaluated the property-related provisions by testing managements Property-related provisions involve judgement in determining the extent to assessment of the onerous elements of lease agreements and agreeing which certain leases are considered to be onerous and the expected value of managements assumptions in relation to future property rectification costs rectification costs to be incurred on leased properties when they are vacated.
to the spend incurred during the year.
We also evaluated loss making stores where impairments and provisions were not in place to confirm that it was reasonable that no impairments or provisions had been recognised.
We found that the provisions recorded were consistent with the evidence obtained.
We have audited managements calculation in respect of total historic tax Recognition of deferred tax assets losses and the recognised deferred tax assets for each location where tax Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 67, the critical accounting losses have been incurred.
estimates and judgements in note 2 to the Group and Company financial statements on page 117 and note 21 for deferred tax assets.
We have agreed the tax rate used in the calculation to the statutory tax rate applicable at the expected time of crystallisation in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
Included within gross deferred tax assets of 31.6m are 10.2m in relation to tax losses in subsidiary entities.
Deferred tax assets in relation to losses We have tested the integrity of the calculation to ensure that amounts are should only be recognised to the extent that the Group believe it more likely being accurately determined.
We have agreed the future taxable profits than not that there will be future taxable profits against which to utilise these forecast for the next 5 years as used in the calculation to the board approved losses.
forecast and have evaluated the accuracy of prior forecasts made by management.
The Groups accounting policy is to recognise deferred tax assets to the extent that brought forward losses are expected to be utilised within five years We found that the deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses was consistent per board approved forecasts.
There is inherent estimation and judgement in assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised.
co. uk 99 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the Independent industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within its two segments, Retail and Wholesale as well as Central costs arising from its head office functions.
Auditors In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified four reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information both due to their size and risk characteristics: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc the Company.
These reporting units were audited by the Group engagement team.
In addition, we conducted the full scope audits of four reporting units located in Germany, Belgium, Ireland and the US such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Group financial statements.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc The audit work performed at these eight reporting units, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the group level, including audit procedures over the consolidation and intangible asset impairment testing, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4.4 million 2016: 3.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before income tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that underlying profit before tax, provides a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million 2016: 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
co. uk 100 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Going concern Strategic Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern.
We Report have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to Our Governance the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Auditors Financial As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in Statements preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were Report.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to the members of SuperGroup Plc to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 63, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to to report.
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 65, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
co. uk 101 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Independent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 48 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, material to add or to Auditors including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
material to add or to Report.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc the Directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done material to add or to so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have draw attention to.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
co. uk 102 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Strategic Report Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Independent As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 95, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Governance Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Auditors Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Statements Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Report.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 6 July 2017 www.
