Chief Executives review I am particularly pleased with the results of the Group in 2008.
The highlight of the year was the acquisition of FKI which was completed on 1 July 2008.
Although global financial and economic conditions have deteriorated since then, the rationale behind the acquisition remains valid.
We are ahead of our plans for FKI.
Our operational improvement plans have not yet had a material effect on these results in the short time since acquisition but we have been very successful in permanently generating cash through better management of working capital.
We are hopeful that we can generate a further 50 million of cash in 2009 from continued improvements.
FKI was a major international diversified engineering group with four divisions, including some businesses with very good market positions.
In general terms, at the head office level, FKI was unfocused with a weak balance sheet and borrowings due to be refinanced in the near term.
The financing terms of Melroses acquisition enabled the balance sheet issues to be resolved and the putting in place of a more appropriate Group borrowing structure with lower overall debt leverage and a maturity date of 2013.
Further details are set out in the Finance Directors review.
DAVID ROPER CHIEF EXECUTIVE In the case of the Energy division, where end-market demand is forecast to remain firm, capital expenditure to improve capacity and efficiency remains a priority.
However, in the Lifting division, where There are substantial lower commodity prices have resulted in a softening in demand, capital for capacity expansion has been pared back until the markets opportunities to continue stabilise.
Nevertheless, opportunities to improve efficiency and cash generation in this division remain.
the operational and cash The following specific points relating to the acquisition of FKI should be noted: generational improvements to Following strategic reviews at each of the FKI business units, the acquired FKI companies.
management implemented measures to achieve operational improvements through capital investment and efficiency gains.
FKIs central costs have been reduced by 10 million per annum.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 06 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES The highlight of the year 10m was the acquisition of FKI Reduction in FKIs central costs per annum which was completed on 1 July 2008.
We are ahead for our plans for FKI.
Cash generated in the six month period from a reduction in working Outlook capital was 79.2 million.
Net debt to EBITDA has been reduced The breadth of the end markets that the Melrose Group companies from 2.7x on acquisition to 2.25x at the year end exchange rates, sell into, both sectorally and geographically, means that although which is significantly better than our expectation at acquisition.
some companies will face more difficult trading conditions this year, others operate in markets with favourable prospects.
The fall in the Hickorys businesses formerly part of FKIs Hardware division have value of Sterling has also resulted in significant translation benefits and either been sold or closed.
This has resulted in a net inflow of cash a competitive advantage for our UK based businesses.
In addition to of approximately 10.2 million, significantly higher than our this, and most importantly, there are substantial opportunities to estimates at the time of acquisition.
continue the operational and cash generational improvements to the We remain hopeful that a sale of Logistex North America will be acquired FKI companies.
Protracted negotiations continue concerning the In addition to the strong underlying cash generation within the disposal, reflecting the economic climate and difficult financing Group and the operational improvement plans being put in place, we conditions.
In its field Logistex is a world class business with a are fortunate to have operational management that have been strong position in its market.
There are actions that are being taken, proactive, where necessary, in taking action to cut costs and conserve and will continue to be taken were it not to be sold, which will cash.
Recently implemented cost savings initiatives across the Group significantly improve profit.
In any event, we would expect Logistex should yield annual savings of at least 25 million at a cost of around as a whole to remain profitable in 2009.
These factors, allied to the solid financial base of the Group and After a strong first nine months of trading in 2008, Dynacast saw a the operational improvement plans being put in place, give us significant decline in sales in the final quarter of the year.
Early action confidence that Melrose will successfully trade through this difficult by the experienced management team to reduce costs and conserve period and position us to be able to benefit from the exciting cash mean that the company is well placed to meet these challenging opportunities that undoubtedly lie ahead.
conditions and will be in a strong position when markets improve.
In the Interim Statement it was stated that a fundamental review of MVC had been instigated as a result of the deteriorating conditions in the US automotive industry.
We were pleased to report the sale of the company in November 2008.
Whilst this business has produced an unsatisfactory result in a very tough trading environment it should not detract from the success of the acquisition of McKechnie.
DAVID ROPER 11 March 2009 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 07
