Business review Chief Executive Ofcers statement Execution Over the past year, we delivered a strong set of financial results and made another acquisition to further our strategic aims.
We have successfully executed ahead of our initial expectations.
Since the year end, the management team has been further strengthened with the appointment of Paul Rodgers as Worldwide Human Resources Director in May 2008 and Marc Andrews as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing in June 2008.
Both individuals are highly experienced in the software industry.
The sales team has been further strengthened and we will continue to invest to drive the business forward.
It has been For over 30 years, Micro Focus has inuenced and innovated particularly encouraging to see the improved performance in in the Enterprise Applications market and we have built up our North American operation as well as continued excellent a leading position in the Application Modernisation market.
performances from our Europe and Rest of World operations.
Major corporations are increasingly becoming aware that it is possible to obtain all of the required business benets through We continue to rene our marketing and delivery capabilities modernising existing applications, as opposed to implementing with a rm focus on developing senior level contacts within our the high risk and costly alternative of rewriting these applications target customers.
With significant momentum building around or replacing them with a packaged solution with little additional the modernisation message it has been encouraging to see business benefit.
the Company establish itself as a thought leader in this area.
Micro Focus technologies and solutions are a driving force While organic revenue growth is our primary focus, our strategy behind the day-to-day business success of many of the largest review, carried out in the six months to October 2006, companies in the world, helping these organisations achieve highlighted the potential for further profitable revenue growth competitive differentiation through modern, efficient and low through acquisitions.
On 4 May 2007, we acquired Acucorp cost platforms.
This proposition is particularly relevant against for $40.9 million.
Acucorp provides technology that is highly the backdrop of the uncertain economic outlook.
complementary to Micro Focus core business in the COBOL Development Tool space as well as providing the opportunity for Micro Focus to expand its reach into the small and medium-sized enterprise SME markets.
On 18 June 2008 we acquired NetManage, a software provider of technologies to transform core applications into new web-based business solutions.
Combining the businesses of Micro Focus and NetManage will further strengthen Micro Focus Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 13 Business review Chief Executive Ofcers statement position as a leading player in the growing Application Continued future revenue growth is largely dependent on driving Modernisation market and provide the enlarged Group with licence sales.
Our strategy review, undertaken in the six months further opportunities for growth through a more comprehensive to October 2006, identied the major growth opportunity and broader product offering.
Due to the complementary nature around larger value licence fee transactions into the Global 2000 of the two businesses from a market, product and financial G2000 companies.
It was encouraging that we again signed perspective, we are well placed to deliver value from this a number of these transactions in the year, including Boeing, acquisition and look forward to implementing the integration Wal-Mart and RBS, carrying on from our success last year.
Our solutions reduce cost, lower risk, and provide clear and We continue to invest in expanding our solution set as well compelling returns on investment for our customers.
Whilst we as extending our partnerships with other technology companies, recognise the current uncertain macro economic conditions, the system integrators and outsourcers to take advantage of the defensive characteristics of our business model, combined with considerable market opportunity open to us.
the relevance and compelling nature of our solutions, lead us to view the current year with confidence.
Our ambition is to achieve Summary and outlook double digit organic growth, at constant currencies, over the We are encouraged by the progress made over the past year longer term whilst maintaining our EBITDA margin.
reecting the strong fundamentals of the business.
A robust and sustainable market exists to support our growth Micro Focus benets from having a business model with a high strategy.
Our key focus remains on organic growth although proportion of predictable and recurring revenue.
Of licence we continue to review the potential for further acquisitions to revenues, which made up 49.7% of Group revenues in the year, enhance the value of our business, as evidenced by the recent the majority comes from high volume, low value transactions acquisition of NetManage in June 2008 and Liant Software which are supplemented by larger value transactions, the size Corporation in July 2008. and volume of which we are seeing increase.
Approximately one third of licence revenues come from royalties from other software companies, which provides additional predictability.
Maintenance revenues, which made up 45.6% of Group revenues in the year, are secure and robust.
Maintenance revenue growth is driven by the retention of existing customers as well as the addition of new maintenance revenue associated with the sale Stephen Kelly Chief Executive officer of new licences.
An encouraging performance in both of these areas in the year provides high levels of revenue visibility going forward.
The smallest proportion of our revenue is derived from our consultancy services and it is intended that this revenue will remain a similar proportion of total revenue in the coming year.
14 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Business review Penetrating international markets with a ground-breaking application strategy Tescos competitiveness in retail depends in no small part on its highly effective IT systems.
This is especially true for its innovative Continuous Replenishment CR system, which drives store ordering.
This highly sophisticated system resides on an IBM z OS mainframe in the UK and Tesco needed to make it available to the rest of its group.
TESCO A platform-independent common operating model Retail Micro Focus Application Migration and Modernisation offering was Product solution chosen to port the CR application to the IBM System p server running Micro Focus Application the AIX operating system and integrate it with the existing Oracle Retail Migration and Modernisation solution.
Elements of Tescos Common Operating Model are already in Micro Focus Studio place and benefiting some of its businesses.
Micro Focus modernisation Micro Focus Server expertise is not only helping Tesco maintain the momentum behind this strategic IT project, but is also playing a key role in the development of its presence in the United States.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 15 Business review Extracting more value from legacy assets CSCs Financial Services Group wanted to create a new, economical package to help its financial services customers run critical mainframe-based applications on a lower-cost environment, such as a desktop or server.
It was already providing Micro Focus Mainframe Express, Enterprise Edition, to those customers using its VANTAGE-ONE solutions who wanted to do their own development work.
To create the new package it supplemented this with Micro Focus Server to enable deployment to new platforms.
A new solution at lower cost Finance The new solution enables thousands of programmes that would Product solution normally run on a mainframe environment under CICS and JCL to run Micro Focus Mainframe in a lower-cost Windows server environment.
The server-based solution Express Edition reduces deployment charges and increases runtime.
Clients are Micro Focus Server impressed to see an industrial strength application running so quickly with the server-based solution.
Micro Focus Mainframe Express enables CSC to deliver more system capability to its clients.
It also saves the Company cost and improves its own productivity.
It estimates overall cost savings from improved productivity to be 40%.
16 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
