chief executives review CHIEF Q Why do you describe this as a year of EXECUTIVES transformation?
REVIEW A In last years Annual Report I set out a new strategy.
This year I can report good progress.
We enhanced the value we deliver for customers, and we entered a new phase focused on building a growth platform.
This is a remarkable business transformation.
04 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 We are getting fit in healthcare we launched Misys Myway, in March 2007 we set out the Misys strategy which provides small physician practices to turn around and improve the financial with practice management, electronic and operating performance of the medical records and claims management company.
Our vision is to become the applications in one solution.
we also leading application software and services announced our proposed merger with provider to the most important industries Allscripts.
combining Misys healthcares in the world, by providing customers with strengths in Practice Management and integrated, comprehensive solutions.
Allscripts strengths in electronic health records ehr we will create a true leader i am pleased to report good progress in the fast growing ehr market, which is executing against the strategy.
forecast to be worth us$5 billion by 2015. the combined company will have an we have completed the sale and disposal installed base of around 150,000 physicians.
of non-core operations, including sesame this merger will transform our healthcare and two healthcare businesses.
we have business to a leadership position.
repositioned our portfolio around highgrowth market areas.
we launched a new Open source division during the year to help drive innovation in we have taken costs out of the organisation the market place.
two market opportunities through a range of productivity have been identified: carbon trading and improvements, procurement savings, connecting healthcare communities.
reorganisation and back office offshoring Open source is working towards launching which has helped move us from a net the first revenue generating solution debt position to a positive cash position.
during 2008. since we announced the strategy we have in Global services the business has grown built a new leadership team which is now significantly by increasing the breadth and well established and has shown its ability depth of support we provide and enabling to execute against our strategy.
customers to maximise their return on investment in solutions.
Our training solution Misys Academy grew and we Misys is fitter, sharper and more launched the innovative online training competitive as a result of our actions and portal Misys learning suite.
our key performance indicators underline this.
we have improved margins by three Developed a more resilient business model percentage points and have delivered the past year has witnessed a shift in revenue growth of 6% which were ahead economic sentiment which has brought of plan and expectations.
with it a new and different set of challenges.
whilst we will continue to closely monitor Our customer satisfaction levels are the needs of our customers, demand for improving across all areas of the business, our solutions and service support has been and while there is still a lot more to do i am largely unaffected, most notably in Africa, encouraged with the early indicators.
we Asia, the Middle east, russia and the cis.
achieved these improvements despite a within our established markets of north challenging macro-economic environment America and western europe, many and tough competition in our markets.
customers are seeking solutions and service support to help address cost, compliance Launched innovative solutions and services and risk issues.
this inherent geographic Over the last year, in Banking we saw the strength of our business model, combined much anticipated launch of Misys with 58% of our revenues being recurring Bankfusion, a new universal Banking and our growing services business, means platform which is able to host an array of new We promised to align Misys with that not only can we take confidence in our and exciting applications and services.
we the needs of customers and the ability to meet our expectations across the started the implementation of our first Misys expectations of shareholders cycle, but also that the credit crisis to date Bankfusion solution in spring 2008 with our has not changed our expectations for Misys.
we are executing ahead of first customer standard Bank of south Africa.
however, we have appropriate contingency schedule and our performance plans in place.
in treasury & capital Markets tcM all shows that we are moving in the of our key applications are now available, right direction.
or due for launch as hosted solutions and Mike Lawrie, Chief Executive extend the asset classes they cover.
Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 05 chief executives review Established winning partnerships in new We are transforming the Misys culture This year we took an enormous high-growth markets the changes we introduced this year have step towards leadership in we increased our presence and capabilities made a positive impact due to the talent Healthcare when we announced in the fastest growing geographic markets and commitment of our employees.
we our proposed merger with including the Middle east, china, india asked our people to deliver and they did.
we launched strategic they responded to change with a terrific partnerships that further strengthen our attitude, hard work and the achievement Mike Lawrie, Chief Executive offering and open up new markets.
As an of tangible results.
example our partnership with digital china will open up a market of 30,000 small and i am delighted that our latest employee medium sized banks in china.
survey shows we are making progress on employee engagement.
it takes time to Group revenue Increased efficiency and productivity transform an organisation but we are 6% growth we are establishing common systems and moving in the right direction, led by a 2008 492m processes within Misys to drive strong and accountable leadership team, performance, cost efficiency and compelling values and a high performance 2007 464m productivity improvements.
wherever we operate Misys people we adopted and implemented world-class now share a clear vision and values, and business processes such as salesforce.
that is having a powerful effect on how we com, supportforce.
com, cognos, clarity work together.
and others, and these will help us achieve significant run-rate savings, enhanced i have been impressed by the loyalty our development processes and faster people feel towards the customers they Operating profit improvement response time for customers.
employees tell me that the wider 37% growth effects of our work are also important to 2008 81m Increasing targets for the next phase them.
from helping to improve the quality of Misys has delivered ahead of schedule on healthcare for millions of people to playing 2007 59m the targets for phase one of the turnaround an active role in meeting the challenge of that we outlined in our March 2007 strategy climate change what we do can benefit our presentation.
we are now entering the customers and the wider world.
second phase and in light of the progress we have made, we think it appropriate to update We are taking Misys to the next level the strategic goals for this new phase.
the good progress we made in executing our strategy ahead of plan allows us to improve Total order intake for the next phase of the turnaround, which our strategy goals.
the principles we set out 7% growth we expect will take around two years to at the start of our turnaround remain true 2008 259m execute, Misys is aiming to: today.
everything we do must be focused Grow revenue at around 5-8%, up from around meeting the changing needs of our 2007 242m the 2-4% targets originally set out in 2007 customers.
we must keep driving costs Grow our Global services business at down and efficiency up.
we must keep around 15-18%, up from the 3-5% targets investing in our most valuable markets and originally set launching new and better solutions and Over this same period we aim to grow services.
Our competitors are not standing revenue in tcM by 10-13% up from the still and we need to deliver more than ever previous growth rates before if we are to compete successfully.
Operating margin Build on the 16% we achieved for Group 13% growth margins in phase one and seek an we have performed well this year and go additional 1-2% margin improvement in into the second phase of our turnaround in 2008 16% the second phase of the turnaround.
good shape, but there is no complacency 2007 13% here.
Our absolute priority is clear we none of these targets reflect the expected must find more and more ways to increase positive impact of the Allscripts merger the value we deliver to customers.
that is with Misys healthcare.
what will drive us forward in the future.
Getting the company fit for the future was just the start.
As we move into the next phase of our turnaround strategy, we are sharpening our focus on competing harder, financial performance measures winning more and increasing the long-term reported on a like-for-like basis.
value we create for customers and Mike Lawrie see page 27 for reconciliation to statutory measures.
Chief Executive 06 | Misys plc Annual report 2008
