415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy Mitchells & Butlers performance this year has been robust against the background of a tough year for the pub market as a result of the smoking ban and the weakening customer spending.
Despite this, our focus on real value for the customer together with sustained investment in amenity levels and high service standards has enabled us to accelerate our profitable market share gains and announce positive like-for-like sales growth throughout the year.
Tim Clarke Chief Executive This review OFR has been prepared in accordance sales have continued their positive growth in on-trade beer volumes and a contraction in with the Directors Report Business Review requirements trajectory being up 0.5% in the period despite the eating-out market in line with decreases of the Companies Act 1985.
It also incorporates much the sustained challenges in the on-trade beer in disposable incomes.
Against this demand of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statements on the Operating and market where volumes have fallen 8% over background, our value and volume strategy is Financial Review.
All numbers except where stated the past quarter.
These sales increases well placed to support a resilient performance are before exceptional items.
have been driven by our value and volume in a market driven by value-orientated strategy although the overall growth has been customers.
For instance, the average price Against the background of the first full year restrained by weak machine sales.
Like-for-like of a meal in our pubs is 6.05 and the average of the smoking ban in England and Wales, sales since we last reported for 51 weeks price of a pint of standard lager is over 40p weakening customer spending and sizeable to September were up 1.7% for the nine cheaper than the average in leased pubs.
cost pressures, Mitchells & Butlers has weeks ended 22 November, with a strong delivered a robust trading performance with final week of the last financial year.
Mitchells & Butlers sales have proved highly like-for-like sales growth of 1.0% and Group resilient through the first year of the smoking operating profits in line with last year.
Eight weeks ended 22 Like-for-like ban and the credit crunch.
This has been November 2008 sales growth generated by our ability to grow our food This has been achieved as a result of a Residential 1.9% sales per pub by 7.2% in the last year and consumer focused quality and value strategy High Street 0.7 % to out-perform the on-trade beer market that has generated profitable sales growth and Total 1.0% by over 5%.
We are aggressively driving significant market share gains underpinned by accelerated market share gains and ensuring productivity and cost efficiency improvements In the Residential estate, accounting for 76% that this is profitable activity by focusing on in the year.
Our pricing strategy continues of our sales, like-for-like sales were up 1.9%, the optimal balance of volume, price and mix to be deflationary in real terms with average with strong growth across the spectrum of our to maximise the cash contribution to profit.
food and drink price increases of 0.8% in the value, mid-market and premium formats.
Our As a result of this policy and the proactive year delivering more value to customers and new winter menus have started successfully menu management we expect to significantly maximising the cash contribution to the and over the period there have been some mitigate the impact of the input cost increases.
This, together with our sustained good performances from Vintage Inns, which investment in amenity levels and high service has continued its rejuvenation started in During the year ahead we will continue to standards has enabled us to accelerate our November last year and from Sizzling Pub Co. face substantial increases from input and profitable market share gains.
There has been and Crown Carveries which have both regulatory costs.
Commodity price volatility a 16m increase in external costs including generated some excellent food and drink remains high and, while there have been duty, the National Minimum Wage, food and growth.
Our menu and service enhancements encouraging reductions in lead cost indicators energy against which we have successfully in Harvester have made some initial primarily in wheat and oil, our input costs on reduced our fixed and variable costs by 20m encouraging progress in both the Early Bird food, gas and electricity have remained at and achieved our highest ever growth in staff menu and improvements in the trend of the historically high levels.
This has been the case productivity of 5.4%.
Primarily as a result of later evening cover volumes.
in securing our winter requirements at prices this excellent cost management, net operating which are substantially above the levels profits of 343m before exceptional items are In the High Street segment, accounting for prevailing during the first half of last year.
flat on last year with net operating margins 24% of sales, like-for-like sales were down As a consequence, we expect a 30m only slightly down.
This reflects continued strong growth increase in food and energy input costs, exceptional items were 31.5p, down 11.3% from our central London businesses, heavily concentrated into the first half.
We on last year, as a result of higher debt levels combined with a good performance from our expect those increases to subside and in some and interest costs.
Town Pubs outside London, which have been cases reverse in the second half as the impact more than offset by very challenging market of the recent commodity price declines feed Current trading conditions for the later evening venues.
through into our input costs.
In addition, there Current trading has shown a resilient trend in will be a 20m increase in regulatory costs the first eight weeks of the financial year with Outlook and strategy driven by National Minimum Wage and like-for-like sales up 1.0% to 22 November.
We remain highly cautious on the outlook holiday pay increases and by the preFood sales continue to be strong, driven by for consumer spending in 2009 as the UK announced increase in the beer duty.
the success of our new winter menus, and economy slides into recession.
As a result, were up 3.5% on a like-for-like basis.
Drinks we expect continued significant declines Mitchells & Butlers 17 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued The market consumer expenditure Growth per annum 19822007 m 80,000 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 Nominal Real Eating-out 8.8% 3.5% Beer, wine and spirits 4.9% -0.2% Total 6.7% 1.6% The Merlin, Premium Country Dining Group, Alderley Edge Source: ONS n. b. Eating-out market includes soft drinks We expect these cost increases to continue to The market Eating-out is increasingly becoming the reason be partially offset by further improvements in Mitchells & Butlers has consistently executed a for visiting, especially value-for-money, casual staff productivity, food margin management, strategy to respond to the changing underlying dining offers purchasing and other cost efficiency savings, demand trends in the pub and eating-out Approximately one third of the total which we are targeting to be in the region market in order to generate a long-term household food expenditure in the UK is of 20m in the year.
Our outlet scale, with sustainable value positioning and a focus on spent on eating-out, having grown from average EBITDA per pub of 240,000 food.
This was the basis for the repositioning around 18% in 1985.
Over the last couple of per annum, as well as our corporate scale, of our estate and is critical to our continued years, we have seen a slowing in the trajectory with sales of over 110 million meals and over out-performance of the market over the past of this growth, driven in part by weakening 500 million drinks, will enable us to maximise five years.
The key trends in the market are consumer expenditure.
However, the valuethe benefits of operating efficiencies and as follows: for-money eating-out market has remained purchasing power to mitigate the impact in robust growth.
Residential pubs, as a result of these external cost increases.
Pub usage is becoming more popular due of their proximity to high density housing, to the widening consumer appeal of pubs relaxed casual dining atmosphere and valueIn relation to the reduction in VAT from The popularity and availability of eating-out for-money are capturing a significant share of 17.5% to 15% we are in the process of passing in pubs has increased over the last 10 years, this growth.
This performance contrasts with on in full the benefits of this reduction to attracting social groups who were historically the high street restaurant market which has our customers on products for resale other either light users or non-users of the pub.
The recently come under pressure as a result of than alcoholic drinks as a result of the result is that over 80% of the UK population higher price points and low barriers to entry.
now visit the pub at least once a year with over 34% visiting on a monthly basis up from Mitchells & Butlers has been able to capture Taking all these factors into account we only 15% in 1980.
This development has a disproportionate share of the growth in estimate that same outlet like-for-like sales been fuelled by social and lifestyle changes casual dining particularly as 76% of its pub will need to grow by around 3% in order to such as the growth in single households and estate is in residential areas with physically achieve a similar level of retail operating the female working population as well as the large buildings which are also typically on profits as last year.
spending power and longevity of a growing prominent sites with high traffic flows.
Overall however the size of the pub is important to help generate To assist in the priority of reducing the number of pub visits has fallen for the market profitable food sales as a large trading floor levels of unsecured debt, we are reducing the as a whole as the number of drinkers who visit space, sizeable kitchens and car parks with levels of expansionary capital expenditure.
the pub on a regular basis during the week, good outside space enable considerable Compared to last years total capital spend solely to drink beer, has diminished greatly.
volumes of meals to be served driving down of 193m we expect to invest around 120m This is seen in a substantial fall in the the cost per meal significantly.
The great majority of this spend, percentage of the UK population visiting the growth has been assisted by selective other than 18m for converting the recently on-trade three times a week from 18% in acquisitions and disposals which have acquired Whitbread sites, will be focused 1980 to 5% now and is driven by a range repositioned the estate to focus on large sites on maintaining the existing high standards of factors including changes in male social with the scale to cater for high food volumes of amenity within the estate.
drinking habits and the low price of beer at attractive prices.
Our pubs therefore have in the off-trade.
average weekly takes almost four times higher Overall, despite the challenges from than the average UK pub.
Last year, for weakening consumer demand and the The smoking ban has accelerated these example, we disposed of 82 smaller pubs and external cost pressures, we expect the factors and caused a step change in habits hotels with low growth opportunities and consumer appeal of our brands, the quality with users who previously did not eat out acquired 44 high quality Pub Restaurant sites of our well-invested estate, the accelerating in pubs due to tobacco smoke visiting and from Whitbread which will be converted to market share gains from our value and volume lighter users increasing the frequency of their Mitchells & Butlers industry leading brands sales strategy and further cost efficiencies, outings to food-led pubs.
By comparison, at the and formats during the first half of FY 2009. to support a resilient operating performance same time there has been a further decline in amidst what are set to remain very difficult those frequent users who visit solely to drink.
TNS Alcovision Mitchells & Butlers 18 Annual report and accounts 2008 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Eating-out as a percentage of total food Beer volume: on-trade vs off-trade Drinks price gap Average price per pint expenditure UK vs US Barrels millions of standard lager Sep 08 vs Sep 07 50 3.00 14p US UK On-trade Off-trade 60 10p FY 08 40 2.50 6p FY 07 50 2.00 30 40 1.50 30 20 1.00 4p 20 10 0.50 10 0 0 0.00 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2007 80 82 84 86 88 90 92 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 MAB Managed Total tenancy Total grocery 94 pubs leased multiples Sources:US:US Dept of Agriculture, Economic ResearchService Source: BBPA.
2008 figure year to July 2008 Source: AC Nielsen UK:ONS Family Spending Survey The customer appeal of pub food is expanding Continued decline in on-trade beer sales and Summary The growth of eating-out in pubs in the 1990s the growing importance of the off-trade Mitchells & Butlers resilient performance this was concentrated in suburban areas with Consumers have over the past 30 years been year has been achieved amidst a pub market offers focused on middle income consumers.
steadily substituting drinks purchases in the buffeted by a number of challenging external on-trade for purchases in the off-trade due factors.
The smoking ban, particularly during However, over the last few years, the pub to highly discounted supermarket offers.
the winter period, had a significant impact eating-out market has become far more Volumes in the on-trade beer market have after its introduction in July 2007 in England broadly based, with affluent consumers declined by an average of 3% each year and now affects the whole of the UK.
discovering the pub as a venue for enjoyable during the period, with total volumes over This factor on top of the high input cost relaxed eating-out, primarily through the 50% down from 36m barrels to 17m barrels inflation in drinks, duty, employment, food development of gastro-pubs.
At the same time off-trade volumes and utilities together with snow on the mainstream markets, those Local Pubs with have nearly trebled from 5m barrels to 13.5m Easter bank holiday and another wet summer the size and ability to deliver value and quality barrels.
In the last year these changes have have resulted in sharp declines in traditional food in the heavily populated housing estates accelerated as a result of the smoking ban pub usage during FY 2008.
Subsequently, are experiencing a rapid increase in demand.
and the substantial increases in beer prices the pressures on discretionary consumer in the on-trade.
The smoking ban has only reinforced these dynamics and we have therefore focused The supermarkets strategy over a number of These short and medium-term factors have on developing brands and formats to exploit years of using beer as an advertising tool and served to accelerate the reducing viability of the growth in both the premium and the value traffic builder to increase customer visits has a significant proportion of UK pubs which rely segments.
Hence we have expanded our intensified, with deeper discounting in place solely on drinks sales served at relatively high premium country dining format, which caters on a more permanent basis.
This is in stark prices in an environment which often provides to more affluent consumers to almost 50 pubs contrast to the on-trade, where, in response to low levels of amenity.
This has resulted in with food sales growth in the year of almost falling volumes and increasing duty and drinks a ninefold increase in the number of pubs 10%.
In the more mainstream market input costs, prices have been raised ahead of closing in the period since 2006.
Our pub segments we have developed value offers inflation, with the price of a pint of standard business model, by contrast, combines the such as Sizzling Pub Co. and Crown Carveries lager on average 10p higher in managed pubs delivery of quality food with higher margin which offer exceptional value for steak and and 14p higher in leased pubs in September drinks sales which offer excellent value chips or a full carvery meal for under 5, and 2008 than in the equivalent month last year.
through appealing formats and generate are now serving over 900 and 3,000 meals per Mitchells & Butlers has however followed a high sales and profitable growth.
policy of pricing restraint, with a pint of standard lager, at 2.21, costing over 40p less Going forward, our focus operationally Growth in food-related drinks volumes such than in leased pubs and 20p less than in the remains on continuing to generate profitable as soft drinks, wine and coffee as a share of average managed pub.
This relative value, market share gains from the value and volume the total sales mix allied to the industry-leading quality of sales strategy and the underlying growth The growth in the eating-out market has Mitchells & Butlers pubs has generated trends in eating-out using the strength of the resulted in a shift in the drinks sales mix with widening market share gains.
It has also brand portfolio and the quality of the estate.
the proportion of products associated with the resulted in same outlet like-for-like beer This strategy will place us in a resilient position sale of food, such as soft drinks, wines and volumes during the year being down only 2% to make further market share gains should coffee increasing.
Mitchells & Butlers has and drinks sales returning to growth in the last general economic pressures increase.
therefore focused on developing industry 10 weeks of the financial year.
This compares leading drinks retailing and purchasing skills with on-trade market beer volumes falling by Mitchells & Butlers strategy for growth to ensure that it has the product range, serve 9% in the same period.
Our belief is that there and business review quality and presentation to stimulate interest will be a significant opportunity to build further Mitchells & Butlers performance this year and attract new customers.
This, along with on these market share gains in the future.
has been robust against the background of the strength of our food sales performance, a tough year for the pub market as a result has resulted in significant market share gains of the smoking ban and weakening customer in these categories, with wine and soft drinks spending.
Despite this, our focus on real value volumes out-performing the on-trade market for the customer together with sustained by 8% in aggregate in the year.
investment in amenity levels and high service Mitchells & Butlers 19 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued Harvester, Cardiff Bay standards has enabled us to accelerate our We have seen significant growth opportunities down 9% in the period, wines down 5%, profitable market share gains and announce in the mainstream market where our ability soft drinks down 6% and spirits down 7%.
positive like-for-like sales growth throughout to deliver quality meals at good value price the year.
We estimate that we are now outpoints is generating huge demand.
Our value Against this depressed market outlook, performing the pub food market significantly food offers in Crown Carveries average we have focused on widening the product and have consolidated our performance as main meal price of 3.94, Sizzling Pub Co. range that we offer: improving the serve the on-trades largest caterer selling over average main meal price of 4.85 and quality through intensive cellar training and 110 million meals in the year at an average Cornerstone average main meal price of investment in cooling systems: delivering main meal price of only 6.05.
In drinks, 4.07 are some of our fastest growing formats.
better presentation through attractive against on-trade beer market volumes down glassware: as well as maximising the sales over 9%, we have delivered like-for-like sales Our strength in the casual dining market is of drinks bought in conjunction with our down less than 1% with categories associated best demonstrated by the uplifts achieved in increasing food volumes.
As a result of our with food, such as coffee, wines and soft the sites bought from Whitbread in July 2006 strategy to focus on food and other growth drinks showing a resilient performance.
We and subsequently converted to our brands areas of the market, beer now constitutes have successfully reduced fixed and variable and formats.
The average EBITDA of the 205 around a quarter of our sales, having costs by over 20m and achieved our highest converted pubs has now increased by over accounted for over 70% 15 years ago.
ever growth in staff productivity of 5.4% to 50% on a fourth quarter run rate basis from offset the 16m increase in regulatory costs.
the profitability level when acquired.
This has For example, during the year we have As a result of this strong cost management, been attained ahead of expectations through concentrated on increasing the range and operating profit was in line with last year and the strength of our market-leading brands and distribution of the cask ales that we serve, overall net retail operating margins were only formats and the implementation of our value with cask ale volumes having grown by 8.6% slightly reduced against last year.
and volume strategy that provides the in the year on a same outlet like-for-like basis platform for maximising the profits of each in an ale market which was down almost 10%.
We have generated this performance site.
This has led to sales increasing by 20% In Vintage Inns, for example, almost all pubs through the successful implementation of and food volumes rising by 32%.
Significant now have two or more hand-pulls leading to our operational strategy which is to: purchasing gains of 8m have also been growth in beer volume and a significant extracted through these increased volumes.
In increase in total ale gross profit.
Lead the value-for-money casual dining market addition, the introduction of our efficient staff Mitchells & Butlers continual focus is on scheduling systems and service training have We are also always looking to add interest to building our brands and formats to be the place radically improved staff productivity with our range, with seasonal products such as the of choice for customers to visit.
The greatest employment costs reducing from 32% to 27% organic cask ale Golden Promise brewed demand today is centred on value-for-money of sales.
As a result, substantial improvements by Caledonian Breweries, which was stocked casual dining and our pubs are well placed in profitability have been generated.
These in Vintage Inns, Ember Inns and Nicholsons to take advantage of this growing area.
Pub Restaurants, together with the further 44 in September and a number of Christmas ales Eating-out has now become the core reason Whitbread outlets acquired on 19 September such as Santas Tipple, brewed by Batemans, for visiting a Mitchells & Butlers pub with 2008, are high quality residential sites in a family brewer.
Both Ember and Vintage Inns around two thirds of our sales being generated prominent locations that offer an excellent have also hosted highly successful beer by a food-related visit and food sales alone opportunity for further long-term growth festivals.
Looking forward, we are planning accounting for almost 40% of our sales mix.
within the pub eating-out market.
We expect to introduce cask ale into both Toby and This reflects our long-term development that over half of the newly acquired sites will Crown Carveries early in the new calendar of, and investment in, our formats to develop be converted to our brands by Christmas 2008. year, whilst All Bar One will be trialling cask a clear value proposition for our customers ale in a number of bars.
This emphasis has across a wide range of demographics Generate significant drinks market-share gains been accompanied by further investment and income levels and to generate in turn We have out-performed almost all of the main in cellar training with over 1,200 managers substantial profit growth from food sales.
categories in on-trade drinks sales in the year, having gained their award in Beer & Cellar As a result we have further increased our namely beer, cider, wines, and soft drinks.
Quality in the year and over 700 pubs share of the eating-out market with same This has been achieved against a depressed achieving their Cask Marque accreditations.
outlet like-for-like food volume growth of on-trade drinks market, with beer volumes 8% against a pub market up approximately 2%.
Mitchells & Butlers 20 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Listening to 240k EBITDA per pub per annum increased to over 240k in FY 2008 our customers 700 72% Cask Marque Food volumes accreditations through up by 72% a major drive on in last five years cellar training and The White Hart, Village Pub and Kitchen, Pirbright, Surrey dispense standards Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued Staff training, Reinvest margin Increase value in quality value scheduling, incentives The Watergate Toll Toby Carvery, Bolton Value and volume cycle The success of our value and volume strategy means we can reinvest gross Increase volume Reduce costs margin and our labour productivity and purchasing gains to provide our customers with even better quality and value.
Increase Capacity management Supply chain efficiency of productivity buying power In draught cider we have concentrated on increasing proportion of new customers and Extract volume driven efficiencies providing further choice, and have therefore generate higher levels of visits.
We have Our overall pricing strategy continues to installed cider pumps in over 120 pubs which developed and evolved our brands and emphasise value to customers with average had previously not sold the product, with the formats over a number of years through a food and drinks price increases of 0.8% in the result that all of our pubs now stock at least close understanding of customer preferences year.
This reflects our focus on maximising the one draught cider.
The range has been and detailed knowledge of how to benefit cash contribution to profit from the optimal increased to drive interest and premiumisation profitably from these trends.
By having clearly combination of volume, price and mix in a value into the category with products such as differentiated offers targeted to a specific sensitive market.
As a result there has been Addlestones and Aspalls being installed in customer grouping, together with regular strong food volume growth and associated addition to a standard cider.
Our approach and sustained levels of capital investment to drinks sales, which although putting some to draught cider has led to some excellent invigorate and evolve formats, we have been pressure on gross margins from the faster results, with cider volume growing by 12%.
able to create an industry leading portfolio growth of lower priced and lower margin of brands and formats focused on the growth products, has increased our purchasing gains.
Value also plays a key part in our outsegments of the market.
This has enabled our food inflation to be held performance with a pint of standard lager to only 3% compared with increases of 10% in costing on average 2.21 in a Mitchells & The success and strength of these brands and food costs in the marketplace.
Butlers pub in September this year, over 40p formats can be seen in the evolution of wellper pint less than the average in leased pubs.
established formats such as Toby, Vintage We have successfully reduced fixed and This is despite our average retail drinks prices Inns, ONeills, Nicholsons and All Bar One variable costs by over 20m mainly through rising by 2.8% in the year as a result of like-forwhere incremental improvements to the a meticulous focus on pub level costs as well like price increases as well as the introduction customer offer have created long term as continuing efficiencies in the cost base.
For example we recently We have also achieved our highest ever successfully rejuvenated the performance of growth in staff productivity of 5.4% through The growth in food sales is resulting in Vintage Inns thanks to the introduction of new our continuous investment in service training strong associated uplifts in wine and coffee menus with improved quality and value and and ever more refined techniques for particularly following the smoking ban.
We enhanced training and service standards, forecasting and scheduling.
These factors have been extending our ranges with new allied to an extended drinks range.
have enabled the Company to offset the 16m premium products offering good value, as well increase in regulatory costs from drinks duties, as serving own label products and enhancing Deliver a profitable, integrated food and the National Minimum Wage, holiday pay the serve quality.
Hot drinks therefore grew drink offer regulations and business rates.
As a result by 7.6% in the period.
Many of our pubs have prime locations in of this strong cost management, net retail residential areas and are able to create an operating margins were only slightly reduced In soft drinks we have been extending informal casual dining experience alongside for the year.
the range of fresh juices and cordials in our a strong drinks trade.
This requires a carefully Pub Restaurants.
We have also been first-tothought through pub design, away from Extend the skill base of excellence throughout market with new dispense equipment for the segregation into formal restaurants the estate our carbonates which is industry leading or traditional pub decor towards sensitively We believe strongly that guest satisfaction is in ensuring the consistency of the taste, integrated zoning of drink and food areas.
critical to driving profit and that the skills and carbonation and temperature.
The roll out of This then enables a much more atmospheric experience of our operating teams both front this innovative technology began in April and and informal social experience where the and back of house provide a real advantage we have now completed over 500 installations.
food occasionality may be at normal mealtimes in improving the customer experience.
To that or at any time throughout the day.
In this end, this year we have initiated a continuous Develop and evolve an industry-leading way our formats are able to take advantage survey of customers experiences across most portfolio of formats to drive sales growth of integrated food and drink offers comprising of our brands in order to gain direct guest We remain focused on developing and both higher margin drinks sales and lower feedback both on the offer and the individual expanding our brands and formats to margin food sales delivered at a small pub.
This is giving us a real competitive keep pace with fast changing consumer incremental cost, resulting in attractive advantage in spotting and addressing expectations ensuring that we attract an increases in profits.
Mitchells & Butlers 22 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating 5.4% Growth in staff contribution per hour an efficient business 20m Overall fixed and variable cost reduction by end of FY 2008 The Masons Arms, Crown Carveries, Bristol Operating and financial review Chief Executives review of the market and strategy continued The Watergate Toll Toby Carvery, Bolton 6days This year we invested an average of six days of training per employee 40,000 We currently employ over 40,000 people We have also continued to build our staff Our managers are also trained through the The yearly corporate employee satisfaction training programmes and industry-leading Compass and Management Foundation survey gauges staff opinion on a wide variety practices in the areas of capacity management Course programmes, giving them the essential of Company issues and working practices at peak times, kitchen processes and skills to operate our businesses legally and in a confidential manner and provides a organisation, bar and floor service safely.
This year we invested an average continuous objective measure for employee productivity, and staff product knowledge.
of six days training per employee.
This year This focus is central to our out-performance the response rate was again excellent and of the pub market.
Our training programmes not only give our employee engagement remains high.
employees the skills to achieve their ambitions We aim to attract and train excellent people but also, crucially, underpin our commitment Proactively manage the estate to maximise looking to develop their career in licensed to operate our businesses safely.
Our wide range of brands and rigorous training on the responsible retailing Our operational strategy continues to be to formats mean we can offer a great variety of alcohol to give our retail employees the maximise the profitability and value of each of opportunities to our employees and expertise and the confidence to serve our pub by applying the most appropriate trading we provide comprehensive training for all customers correctly.
Our retail teams currently format for the local market and demographics, levels of retail employees and management.
refuse service to approximately 70,000 people whilst looking to demonstrate the value of the Background and experience is not as a month who are unable to provide proof of estate through individual pub disposals at high important as having the right personality, their age and 17,000 people a month on the EBITDA multiples.
The Company is grounds of being intoxicated.
committed to providing equal opportunity During the year our focus has been on to all employees without discrimination The Company aims to fill the majority of our completing the conversion of the original sites and we are supportive of the employment management and RBM positions through acquired from Whitbread in July 2006.
These and advancement of disabled and internal succession.
We deploy a combination were completed in the first half, with 205 pubs disadvantaged persons.
of assessment centres, internal development now converted to our industry-leading brands centres, recruitment advertising, interviewing and formats.
We currently employ over 40,000 people and on-job evaluation to develop potential and take all necessary steps to ensure our managers and assistant managers and to help In addition, we have opened six new sites, retail management and staff have the skills people progress their careers.
and carried out 52 conversions and 34 growth to perform their roles effectively.
We offer projects to change the customer offer or real opportunities to build a career within the The Corporate Graduate Scheme is designed increase the trading area of the site.
The development and succession to recruit and develop many of our senior generating a pre-tax incremental return of 16% of people who work in our pubs is regularly managers of the future and provides some on these investments over the last two years.
reviewed by managers and their Retail of the most exciting and demanding graduate Business Managers RBMs, with training training in the industry for the around This activity is taking place in an on-trade programmes in place to develop individuals 10 graduates who join us on the scheme market where general levels of investment are in the progression of their careers into more each year.
This year we won the award low: therefore the amenity gap between our senior roles.
for the 'Best Initiative to Attract People into pubs and the majority of UK pubs is widening, Management' for our Progress Retail Graduate further improving our relative customer value Our Stepping Stones scheme is the building Scheme, at the Springboard UK Awards.
proposition and supporting continuing market block for retail employee training, where share gains.
team leader development is supplemented Mitchells & Butlers has a long-established, with a workbook, including both back and comprehensive employee communications In addition, a total of 100m of disposal front of house requirements and on-job and programme in place, ensuring effective proceeds at high valuations has been realised off-job modules.
There has been a steady two-way communications between senior during the year, or will be received from increase in the number of employees management and employees.
A formal unconditional contracts, including 15m from completing their Stepping Stones training business forum, at which Executive Standard Commercial Property Developments over the last few years.
Directors meet with elected employee Limited SCPD, our property development representatives to discuss business unit.
This, together with our strong operating concerns, takes place annually.
cash inflows, has significantly reduced our debt levels since January 2008.
Mitchells & Butlers 24 Annual report and accounts 2008
