Ruby McGregor-Smith, Chief Executive 20 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our Property Services division has Order book been reorganised to align our Chief Our forward order book has grown specialist skills to the market place to 4.4bn 2007: 4.1bn.
82% of this in which we operate.
We are order book is within our Facilities Executives intent on making each area of our Services division, 11% within Property business a truly national offering, Services and 7% in Engineering review focusing on roo ng, minor repairs Services.
This year, we have secured and redecoration, interior t-out, 78% of our budgeted revenue for At the end of my first full year as plumbing and heating, social the year ending 31 March 2009 Chief Executive, I am delighted housing and re protection.
compared to 75% at the same that we have continued our record point last year.
of double digit growth, increasing Our Engineering Services division has revenue by 14.5% in the year.
Our also been focusing on aligning the Acquisitions operating pro t before amortisation structure of the division with its three We continue to seek to acquire has increased by 20.5% and all three main markets: energy: technology businesses that complement or t of our divisions have performed well, and infrastructure: and building within our existing company and in enabling us to maintain our overall services.
In the energy markets, we 2008 made three acquisitions.
In April underlying operating pro t margins offer a full energy management 2007, we acquired Jabez Holdings within our target range at 5.1%.
consultancy for our clients, reducing Limited, the holding company of the their carbon footprints through Robert Prettie plumbing business.
In order to deliver value to our renewable technologies and use of In March 2008, we completed stakeholders by delivering future ef cient materials.
The technology the acquisitions of both Catering sustainable growth, we have spent and infrastructure markets Partnership Holdings Limited and the year ensuring that we are well concentrate on providing information DW Tilley Limited.
placed to meet the needs of our communications technology services ever changing markets.
All three acquisitions complement ICT as well as power generation and our existing activities: We have aligned our Facilities cooling solutions for data centres.
The Services division to focus on growth building services market is the more Robert Prettie is a Nottinghamin the FM and multi-service markets.
traditional mechanical and electrical based business that works in With the formation of our new contracting arm of the business.
partnership with local authorities, FM business, we are now able to councils, developers and We have had an excellent year and compete for the larger FM contracts.
registered social landlords on have delivered record results.
Our The business now provides us with kitchen and bathroom installations, business is focused on growth through a vehicle that has been created heating replacement, gas its strength in integrated facilities, to really understand our clients FM servicing, maintenance and property and engineering services.
needs and show how we can match call-out services.
This acquisition We are con dent in our ability to them with MITIEs capabilities.
has added signi cantly to the make progress in this economic capabilities of our Property Services climate and there are positive trading division in the housing sector and conditions across all three divisions.
has complemented the existing We have a record order book regional operations: and are well positioned to deliver sustainable, pro table growth.
We have realigned our divisions to meet the needs of our ever changing markets.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 within our Facilities Services division.
The workplace environment is more Chief Executives review The second generation scheme in demanding than ever for our clients.
continued our Security business was introduced Issues such as waste and recycling, on 4 October 2007 following energy management, carbon shareholder approval at an EGM.
footprint and through-life cost asset Catering Partnership Holdings The introduction of this scheme management all demand forward Limited is a Midlands-based is important for the successful thinking and integration into their catering company.
The company development and consolidation strategic planning.
complements the geographical of our Security business which has MITIE is well positioned to take coverage of our existing grown rapidly, particularly over the advantage of these current operations: and last two years.
markets and has the capability DW Tilley Limited is a national Our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to provide integrated services roo ng contractor, based in scheme was also introduced in July through a measured and thoughtthe North East of England.
The 2007 following shareholder approval out approach.
We can assist company complements our at the AGM.
EPS growth targets our clients by using the expertise existing Property Services division over three years form the basis of developed within our business in and provides us with a national the performance criteria for the these increasingly complex areas, roo ng capability.
LTIP, with shares being offered to a providing the thought needed to number of key senior management.
develop integrated solutions that Equity incentivisation This scheme ensures that we have understand the unique needs of We continue to start new businesses market leading reward mechanisms each and every client.
and support first generation equity to attract the best management start-ups within MITIE.
In October In our engineering markets, we are in our sector to MITIE.
2007 we started MITIE Client Services nding that clients are increasingly Limited.
This business operates looking to award contracts on a Market development within the Facilities Services division framework basis.
The long-term Our markets have always been and will provide clients with high visibility provided by a framework demanding and will continue to quality, client facing support services approach to workload allocation be so.
Uncertainty in the general including reception, switchboard, and the continued aggregation of economy creates opportunity for helpdesk and events management.
the procurement philosophy of both MITIE as customers seek innovation public and private sector customers and fresh thinking from their service As part of the development of continues to work to MITIEs bene t. providers.
Our relatively low market our equity incentivisation model, We are well placed to take share, range of services and we have introduced a second advantage of this shift in work type integrated delivery makes us generation equity scheme into due to our substantial knowledge of an attractive partner.
some of our established businesses key sectors, our national capability to provide an equity opportunity One way that customers are saving and our expertise of renewable for the new management teams money and increasing ef ciency technologies.
within those businesses whereby is through enlarging the scope of management share the risks and The engineering sector is also facilities contracts.
The move towards rewards of ownership.
responding to new legislation, in larger multi-service and FM contracts particular the requirement of energy provides us with opportunity due to Second generation schemes have certi cates for all buildings that our unrivalled range of services and been set up in our Property Services are constructed, sold, rented or wealth of knowledge.
division and also in the Cleaning, occupied.
The certi cates will show Landscaping and Security businesses Our business is structured to face the needs of our current and future markets.
MITIE 1,407m Facilities Services Property Services Engineering Services 820m 286m 301m Facilities Security management 257m 136m Cleaning and Catering environmental 22m 270m Engineering maintenance 135m 22 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 how energy ef cient a building is We have always recognised and Corporate responsibility CR and how much CO it emits into the promoted success within MITIE and 2 For us, CR is about behaviour and atmosphere.
Responsible contractors this year have launched a new attitude.
We aim to ensure that our within this sector are providing the recognition scheme called MITIE CR programme involves every area expertise and innovation to deal Stars.
The new scheme will be a of our business.
CR is undoubtedly with this new requirement.
MITIE has key tool in recognising excellence a differentiator for us, and has invested heavily in resources and within MITIE, helping us to drive been cited as the deciding factor performance improvement and is actively involved in the design for some clients when awarding and application of more ef cient support the need for consistency us contracts.
CR issues, such as across the organisation.
forms of energy generation and reducing the carbon footprint of distribution to the built environment.
buildings, create opportunities for us In MITIE, our success has been built This commitment and investment as we have substantial experience in on the strength of our teams.
It ensures that our Engineering Services renewable energy technology and is unusual for us to single out the division is at the forefront when it energy consultancy.
contribution of one individual, but on comes to advising clients and the this occasion I would like to extend This year we will publish our third CR supply chain on planning regulations my personal thanks and those of the Report.
The Report covers our CR and requirements.
Board to David Ord, who will step programme in detail and expands Our Property Services division down as non-executive Chairman upon the summary of our CR continues to operate in diverse of MITIE following our AGM in July performance that is in this Annual markets.
David has been instrumental in Report and Accounts.
We are proud Prettie provides us with the technical supporting the development of the of this years achievements including ability and expertise to create a Group since his appointment and I gaining a silver award scoring 81.5% service aimed at the wider housing wish him every success in the future.
in Business in the Communitys market.
We believe this new Corporate Responsibility Index 2007: Ruby McGregor-Smith offering will prove attractive to the bronze award with 70.0% and Chief Executive sector and provide us with future, featuring in the Top 100 Companies sustainable organic growth.
The that Count for the second year social housing market continues to in a row.
The index is a voluntary, afford us opportunities to increase self-assessment survey, providing our presence in this sector.
an annual benchmark of how companies manage, measure and International services report their corporate responsibility.
MITIE is the UKs market leader in providing facilities, property and Our greatest asset is our people engineering services.
As our markets We continue to see our people as are very fragmented, we still only being our greatest and most valued have a relatively small market asset.
Without their commitment share in the UK.
Our primary focus and hard work, MITIE would not be remains on growing our UK business.
successful, so I would like to thank Nevertheless, we do have the personally all of our people for their capability to deliver contracts outside efforts over the last 12 months.
the UK when asked to do so by our increasingly global client base.
Rewarding our stars We have launched a new employee awards scheme across MITIE in order to give something back in return for all their energy and commitment.
Its called the MITIE Stars awards scheme and it will make sure that the most important part of our business is recognised and rewarded our people.
The overall winner will take home more than 25,000 worth in prizes from a total prize fund of more than 100,000.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
