David Hathorn Chief executives review In the year under review we continued to focus on enhancing our lowcost production in emerging markets, increased our ongoing costreduction efforts, took early action to realign our capacity with volatile market demand and redoubled our focus on cash management.
Results From 1 January 2008 the former Mondi Packaging and Mondi Business Paper operating units were restructured to operate as two geographical divisions: Europe & International and South Africa.
Within Europe & International the main businesses are: Bags & Specialities, Uncoated Fine Paper UFP and Corrugated.
In South Africa the businesses are UFP and Corrugated.
The reorganisation allowed us to eliminate duplication and simplify processes, resulting in a lean business which is cost-efficient and able to adapt quickly to the changing economic environment.
Our results for the year to 31 December 2008 are reported using this new structure, with adjusted prior-year comparisons where appropriate.
Overview As reported in Mondis Interim Management Statement in October Mondis low-cost production strategy, ingrained 2008, a strong performance in the first half gave way to a more difficult cost focus and ability to respond quickly to third quarter.
This was followed by a sharp slowdown in demand in the changing market conditions position the Group fourth quarter as the downturn in Europe took hold and conditions well in these challenging times.
benefits cannot insulate us from the global Our caution in predicting a 10-15% reduction in Group underlying economic turbulence which all companies operating profit was therefore appropriate, with a final result of 441 million, 12% lower than the prior year, on revenues 1% higher are currently experiencing.
The significant downturn in volumes in the second half occurred mainly in Europe as the Europe & International Division reported revenues 1% down at 5.16 billion 2007: 5.19 billion and a 13% decline in underlying operating profit to 334 million 2007: 386 million.
This was only partially offset by a strong improvement in our South Africa Division, where underlying operating profit grew by 42% to 111 million 2007: 78 million on marginally lower revenues of 587 million 2007: 591 million.
In Europe, demand for paper bags was impacted by the significant downturn in the construction industry in the fourth quarter.
The slowdown in demand was exacerbated by customer destocking, especially in sack kraft paper.
Contract prices for sack kraft held firm throughout the year, although open market prices declined towards the year-end.
Contract prices for 2009 are down 5% on those achieved in 2008.
For a more detailed review of the Groups performance, p15-24 see pages 15 to 24.
10 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: The reorganisation allowed us to eliminate duplication and simplify processes, resulting in a lean business which is cost-efficient and able to adapt quickly to the changing economic environment.
Brown kraftliner and testliner prices were down around 5% year-on-year a restructuring exercise at the Turkish corrugated business was testliner prices declined sharply in the second half, ending the year over started: 24% down on the prior year close.
Box prices, having increased in the the Nyborg specialities plant in Denmark and the Zaragoza bag first half, started to level off in the third quarter and declined by 6% at plant in Spain were closed: and the year-end.
Our UFP sales held up well in the face of the downturn, with selling prices slightly up on 2007. a restructuring of the Finnish and UK coating businesses was initiated.
The South Africa Division saw significantly improved results from These moves have the effect of adjusting our production capacity in light both Corrugated and UFP, benefiting from product mix changes of the changing demand environment, lowering our overall cost base and and price increases.
Domestic demand growth in UFP was good streamlining our asset portfolio to focus on those businesses that throughout the year and export sales also increased.
The impact of provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage in their respective the restructuring over the past two years and the benefits of recent markets.
In total we will have exited around 600,000 tonnes of high cost management changes were clearly evident, with a much improved production capacity 14% of Europe & Internationals capacity, thereby operating performance.
lowering our average European cost per tonne for the related products by around 5%.
This is very much in line with the Groups stated strategic Mondi Packaging South Africa MPSA reported a modest 1% increase objective of focusing on low-cost, high quality assets and achieving cost in underlying operating profit in local currency, but was heavily impacted leadership in its chosen markets.
on translation by the strength of the euro against the South African rand, with reported underlying operating profit down 20% to 28 million 2007: Furthermore, steps have been taken to significantly reduce capital 35 million.
Merchant and Newsprint saw a substantial decline in profit expenditure outside of the two major projects.
This initiative is supported as our UK joint venture, Aylesford Newsprint, suffered from both lower by the well invested nature of our asset base.
Capital expenditure selling prices and higher input costs.
approvals will be limited to 40% of depreciation in 2009.
The cash flow effects of this initiative started to be seen towards the end of the reporting period, with the main benefits expected to be realised in 2009 Decisive response to the downturn and 2010.
Mondi has acted to close or dispose of certain higher cost operations in Cash inflow from working capital of 27 million was achieved despite Europe.
The total cost of disposal, closure and restructuring initiatives a 1% increase in sales and an already strong performance in the prior excluding impairments amounted to 85 million and has been disclosed year 97 million.
Since the half year, working capital inflow amounted as a special item.
The cash element of this charge is 56 million.
Actions taken: A special item impairment charge on the write-down of both goodwill the previously announced closure of our 140,000 tonne UFP mill and tangible assets amounting to 293 million was taken in the period, in Hungary and European UFP reorganisation were completed: reflecting the weaker outlook for several of our business segments in light of the worsening macro-economic environment.
the integrated Stambolijski kraft paper mill in Bulgaria and the Dyns PM5 kraft paper machine in Sweden were mothballed: the recycled containerboard mill in Holcombe, UK was closed: 128 million in cost savings three sheet feeder plants in the UK and a recycled containerboard 2.4% of prior-year cash cost base mill in Switzerland were sold.
The sale of two further corrugated converting operations in France was also agreed: Exited around 600,000 tonnes of high cost production capacity Capital expenditure approvals limited to 40% of depreciation Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 11 Directors report David Hathorn Chief executives review continued Mondis Combi Pack reel wrapping is produced in Industrial bags the Czech Republic by at Mondis the coatings business in Zeltweg operation cooperation with regional in Austria.
In the year under review, more than half the Groups revenues and more Maintaining our competitive advantage than 80% of our operating profit were generated from our assets in We believe that our strategy is especially valid in the new economic emerging Europe, Russia and South Africa, where we occupy the environment.
Leading market positions, low-cost operations and a number one or two market positions in all our key packaging and UFP robust focus on performance have always been key elements of that product segments.
It is significant that revenues in or from all three of strategy and in todays challenging economic times its benefits will be these regional markets continued to grow in 2008, despite the sharp even more pronounced.
downturn in demand elsewhere in Europe.
We took steps to further secure our market positions during the year Building on market leadership with a number of small strategic acquisitions totalling an enterprise value At a time of global uncertainty in our industry, we believe it is more of 89 million, designed primarily to strengthen the product mix and important than ever that we continue to strengthen our leading positions geographic coverage of our Bags & Specialities business.
in packaging and UFP, particularly in emerging markets.
These markets will not be immune to recession, as we indicated at the end of 2008, but they continue to offer above-average long-term growth potential.
54% 83% Revenue by origin from Operating profit from emerging markets emerging markets 12 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: We are committed to delivering superior returns, above the average of our competitors, and this commitment is undiminished by the difficult trading conditions.
The woodyard at the wiecie pulp and paper mill in Poland.
Remaining a low-cost producer Sharpening focus on performance We are committed to delivering superior returns, above the average The requirement for continuous productivity improvements and cost of our competitors, and this commitment is undiminished by the difficult reduction is an imperative in our business.
Our highly experienced trading conditions.
The value of having much of our production in some management teams have implemented a continuous series of of the worlds lowest-cost regions is a significant benefit when volumes business excellence programmes in recent years and rigorous asset and selling prices are under pressure.
management is second nature for everyone in our operations.
This unwavering emphasis on cost control and operational performance Over the last four years we have progressively concentrated our has never been more important than in the current economic climate.
production in the lower-cost regions of emerging Europe, Russia and South Africa.
64% of our operating assets and 80% of our virgin-based The reorganisation of the Group into two divisions, Europe & International production are now deployed in emerging markets.
and South Africa, together with the subsequent restructuring of the South Africa Division and the reorganisation of our UFP business, The great majority of our primary raw material is also in low-cost all brought a steady stream of benefits to the bottom line throughout regions.
We now own or lease 385,000 hectares of forest in South the year.
Africa and have logging rights to 2.1 million hectares in Russia, maintaining our self-sufficiency in two of the worlds lowest-cost The chairmen have already referred to the 128 million of annualised fibre-producing regions.
This in turn means that we have the potential cost savings in 2008 achieved through a range of initiatives.
In addition, to source approximately 50% of our Group-wide wood requirements we have closed or divested a number of high cost operations and taken from our own resources.
market-related downtime, and this process continues.
In the last four years, our fixed costs as a percentage of revenue have reduced from Our high level of vertical integration in the supply chain, combining 32.5% in 2004 to 27.2% in 2008.
Personnel costs as a percentage of low-cost fibre with low-cost production, gives us good security of supply revenue have also reduced from 16.2% to 14.6%, over the same period.
and greatly reduces our exposure to volatility in raw material prices.
The 2009 cost savings target is 180 million 3.3% of 2008 cash costs.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 13 Directors report David Hathorn Chief executives review continued The year ahead also presents us with some opportunities.
In particular, The Mondi team rationalisation of the European paper and packaging sector is long I would also like to add to the chairmens tribute to our employees.
They overdue and there are encouraging signs that this is beginning to gather have demonstrated continued commitment to Mondi during a difficult pace.
Over one million tonnes of annualised UFP capacity reductions fourth quarter and into 2009.
Mondis management teams have worked have already been implemented or announced by our competitors, constructively retaining their sharp focus on improving efficiency and following the closure of our own Hungarian mill earlier in 2008, in total production as well as reacting to the adverse economic conditions representing around 11% of the market.
I thank them for their continuing support.
reductions of around 900,000 tonnes per annum have been announced in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK, including 110,000 tonnes through I am personally thankful to my now ex-colleague, Paul Hollingworth, the closure of our plant at Holcombe in the UK.
Mondis chief financial officer until October 2008, for his expertise and commitment throughout his time with us: in particular, his management We are under no illusions about how difficult 2009 is likely to be for our of Mondis demerger from Anglo American plc.
The risk of further declines in volume and price remains our greatest challenge in the current year.
Although our stock levels are low, I am delighted that we have an excellent replacement in Andrew King with destocking largely adjusted for, we cannot predict how quickly or who has worked for Mondi for seven years, latterly as Group strategy when customer demand will recover.
Andrew joined the Boards as chief financial officer on 23 October 2008 and is based in South Africa.
We are being assisted by a currency tailwind after many years of adverse exchange rates.
In recent months both the Polish zloty and Ron Traill was appointed chief executive officer of Mondis South Africa the South African rand have moved in our favour and a strengthening Division in January 2008 and was appointed to the DLC executive US dollar is relieving pressure from transatlantic imports and supporting committee in June 2008.
Ron joined us in 2003 as managing director European pricing.
Input and commodity costs have also fallen in recent of the tt pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic.
months, especially in energy and recycled fibre, although these will only Ladimir Pellizzaro rejoins Mondi as Group technical director, succeeding partially mitigate the effects of continuing weak volumes and prices.
Ladimir took a break from Mondi in 2005 after being Over the next few months, we will be focusing on even tighter control with the business for 15 years in a number of senior technical and of working capital, holding back on the small number of acquisitions operational roles, following which he was retained by the Group as an we have under review, continuing to review our production base, further adviser.
I would like to thank Kurt for his outstanding commitment to sharpening our focus on cost-reduction and taking additional marketMondi for almost 30 years.
He leaves us with our very best wishes.
related downtime as circumstances dictate.
I would also like to thank Mervyn Walker who returned to Anglo With expenditure on our two major projects at wiecie and Syktyvkar American plc in September 2008.
Mervyn played a vital role in well underway, we are in a position to significantly reduce capital overseeing Mondis demerger and listing in 2007. expenditure outside of these projects without impacting the operational performance of our businesses.
Market outlook We retain our aspiration for growth in the longer term, provided the Pricing has weakened for some grades since the year-end, with opportunities match our rigorous low-cost criteria.
However, our continuing pressure on testliner and sack kraft prices.
Pulp prices have overriding priority in 2009 will be to run all our businesses as efficiently also softened, although the effects are limited by the fact that we are as possible and ensure the long-term competitiveness of our business.
almost balanced in pulp supply for our own operations.
To date UFP prices and kraftliner prices have held up reasonably well.
The pricing Outlook outlook is unclear and will depend largely on how well the industry reacts to weaker demand, either through commercial downtime or Given the level of global economic uncertainty that emerged in the latter permanent capacity closures.
Mondi will continue to take whatever part of 2008, the outlook inevitably remains challenging.
However downtime and actions are required to ensure that our stock levels Mondis strong financial position, our low-cost, high quality asset base remain low.
We will also continue to assess the need for further and our quick and decisive response to rapidly changing economic permanent capacity closure in addition to the closures that we have events leave us well positioned to benefit when market conditions recently made.
As such, the Boards remain confident in the mediumand long-term prospects for the Group.
14 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader:
