Business Review Chief Executives Report In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group has Savings showed the strongest growth in the Money performed well despite the challenging trading conditions vertical with revenue increasing by approximately 80% that have been driven by the tightening credit markets in the year as customers sought to spread their cash and downturn in the economy.
Group revenue has balances across a number of accounts to take advantage increased year on year by 10% from 162.9m to of the protection afforded by the Financial Services 178.8m and the Insurance, Travel and Home Services Authority Compensation Scheme, and to find the best verticals have all continued to grow helping to returns as interest rates fell.
compensate for the decline seen in the Money vertical.
The Travel vertical performed well with revenue increasing Adjusted EBITDA declined in the year by 9% to 48.4m in the year by 27% to 19.1m 2007: 15.0m.
Growth principally due to further investment in the Groups online slowed over the second half of the year as customers offering and the increased customer acquisition costs in sought to reduce discretionary expenditure.
The Group remained strongly cash growth was driven by increased visitors to the vertical generative and ended 2008 with no debt and the cash which were 32% higher in 2008 than in 2007. balance increasing during the year by 19.5m to 73.5m.
We believe this demonstrates the resilience of our The Home Services vertical delivered a strong diversified business model in these difficult economic performance in 2008 with revenue increasing 63% in times.
For a large part of the year, utility prices were increasing, prompting customers Insurance is now the largest vertical in the Group, to shop around for the best available deal.
The Home accounting for 43% of Group revenue.
Revenue Services vertical is now well established and experienced grew in the year by 38% to 77.7m 2007: 56.4m visitor growth in the year of 97%.
albeit at a slowing rate as the year went on.
This was driven both by improved commercial arrangements In September 2008 the Group launched its own shopping with providers and increased visitor numbers that were channel.
Whilst the Group has had a shopping channel 20% higher than in 2007.
We maintained a strong market on the website for some time, this was previously provided by a third party.
This limited the Groups ability position in a sector which continued to show growth during the year despite the increasing level of competition to drive visitors to its website from search engines and from other online aggregators who spent significantly on therefore our ability to grow this channel.
The Group now television advertising and bid aggressively on search has its own product which gives an additional 75,000 pages to be indexed by search engines, enabling results engines.
We believe we still have the most complete insurance comparison engine in the UK offering our from our shopping channel to appear in the natural customers the widest choice of providers together with a listings on search engines, increasing revenue.
Mortgage 2000, the Groups offline business which During the course of 2008, and in particular in the second specialises in supporting mortgage intermediaries half of the year, the Money vertical felt the impact of the continued to decline throughout the year reflecting deepening global banking crisis.
Revenue in the year the declining mortgage market.
The Group is currently reviewing its options for this business.
declined by 10% to 68.3m 2007: 76.0m as credit markets continued to tighten.
With the UK consumer seeking to reduce debt and providers continuing to The Groups strategy in 2008 tighten their lending criteria, revenue declines were most Despite the current challenging economic conditions, the Group remains well placed to respond to the notable in the loans and mortgages channels.
Visitors to the Money vertical were however 27% higher in 2008 continuing structural shift in consumers and providers than in 2007 demonstrating the value of the website to behaviour as consumers spend increasing amounts of our customers, particularly in times of uncertainty.
time online and their confidence in, and familiarity with, transacting over the internet increases.
The impact of the credit crunch and the worsening economic conditions were particularly felt in the secured We believe the Group provides the largest and most loans market which contracted substantially.
In July, effective price comparison marketplace in the UK, matching providers with customers who, having Barclays took the decision to close its subsidiary First Plus to new business with effect from August.
First Plus compared the market, are ready to make a purchase, had provided the Group with an exclusive market leading thereby improving the focus and efficiency of providers product and represented approximately 10% of Group marketing spend.
revenue at the time it closed to new business.
Although the Group was able to replace some of the revenue lost following the withdrawal by Barclays, the continued tightening of the supply of available credit throughout the year meant that revenue from secured lending in the second half of the year was significantly lower than the first half.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Simon Nixon Revenue 178.8m 2007: 162.9m Increased by 10% 17 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chief Executives Report continued The Groups strategy to capitalise on this structural shift In September 2008 the Group launched its own has focused on three main areas in the last financial year: shopping channel.
This channel is already performing well and the Group is planning to further improve its Customer focus functionality to make it a market leading proposition.
The Group is committed to saving its customers time and money.
This sits at the heart of the Group and its Brand awareness innovation and product development.
Each new website Marketing and PR drive new customers to the Groups development, new tool or new product that the Group website and ensure that the Group remains at the front of launches is intended to save its customers time and customers minds.
The Group has continued to invest money, support the customer in his or her purchasing heavily in its brand as part of a highly focused marketing decision or enhance the customer experience.
This has helped the Group to increase the number of visitors attracted to its website by 32% to This constant focus on placing the customer first helps 120.1m 2007: 91.0m and has helped to ensure the ensure that the Group remains at the front of customers Group remains the UKs leading price comparison minds and is central to how the Group is run.
The success of this strategy is reflected in the increased online brand recognition of Innovation and product development moneysupermarket.
com to 80% in September 2008 The Group has continued to invest in innovation and from 73% in November 2007. product development in 2008 and will continue to do so.
Customers see the benefits of this innovation in enhanced The Group continues to supply best buy tables to the website functionality, improvements in existing products personal finance sections of a number of national and the addition of new products and features.
This focus newspapers including The Telegraph, The Times and on innovation and product development ensures that the The Independent and in 2008 spent 19.0m on television customer experience is continually enhanced and the advertising 2007: 17.0m.
With increased competition Group remains their first choice for price comparison in from other online aggregators, most notably in motor the UK.
By enhancing the customer experience and insurance, the Groups brand remains one of its most providing support to customers in their purchasing important and valuable assets.
decision, providers benefit from increased conversion rates and a more efficient marketing spend.
Examples of new products and services introduced in 2008 include: Simon Nixon The launch of a Policy Wizard tool in motor insurance which enables customers to find the policy that exactly meets their needs and see prices update in real time.
This significantly improves the usability of the motor insurance channel and will improve providers conversion rates.
The look and feel of the Travel website was refreshed to make it more inspirational: to really excite customers about the prospect of travelling or holidaying and to make it more intuitive to use.
This was initially released to customers as an alternative or beta version and will be fully live during 2009.
The Group integrated hotel reviews from Trip Advisor and added far more photos, videos and content into its Travel website.
The Group launched a new credit cards channel and enhanced the loans and savings channels, both of which now include expert, video and user reviews, all substantially improving the customer experience.
The Group extended the question set within its motor and home insurance channels to enable customers to obtain a more tailored quote for their personal circumstances.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 19 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chief Executives Report continued Before I outline the Groups strategy in 2009, I would The Group will further look at and test innovative new like to thank Simon for his help and support during my opportunities to utilise and leverage its core price transition to Chief Executive Officer.
I very much look comparison competencies in markets different to forward to working with him in his new role, where he will those in which the Group currently operates.
continue to drive product development and innovation across the Group.
Insight led The Group will focus in 2009 on using its data better and The Groups strategy in 2009 developing tools and capabilities from which it can drive Simons Chief Executive Report described the Groups decision making.
In a challenging market, it is essential strategy during 2008 and in particular the focus on that as an online business the Group uses every piece of customers, innovation and product development, and information effectively.
As the Group becomes more analytical in its approach, These cornerstones of the Groups strategy in 2008, the insight and knowledge it gathers about its business, which have served the Group well in its development customers and providers will enable the Group to and growth to date, will continue to form a major part of optimise its decision making and to monitor its the plans for 2009.
However, the unprecedented global performance against its goals.
This will ensure the financial crisis and the subsequent UK recession means Group is able to manage its business better in the the Group faces a very different marketplace to that short, medium and long term.
which it has encountered in the past.
Customer focus Our immediate task is to reconfigure our business for Saving customers time and money remains at the very the lower levels of demand we are seeing due to the heart of the Groups philosophy and the Group will recession and to concentrate on managing our existing continue to focus on this during 2009 and beyond.
2009 will be a difficult year and we The Group has started to build a single base of customer cannot assume 2010 will be any easier.
More so now than knowledge, and as a business, recognises the need to ever, the Group must remain flexible and responsive to be much more inquisitive about customer behaviours and the changing market conditions and changing customer attitudes so that the Group can respond to them with needs.
better service and more tailored products.
Accordingly, the Groups priorities for 2009 will focus on As the UK continues in recession and customers need the following areas, each of which interacts with the other to find more ways to save money, the Groups focus on as part of an overall strategy: customers will be more important than ever.
com are The short term outlook is not good.
Revenue to date this both market leading brands, with online brand recognition year is significantly down on last year, entirely due to the at their highest ever levels as a result of the major recession.
We will manage ourselves accordingly.
marketing and PR investment by the Group over the past three years.
In 2009, the Group will continue to invest However, the Group has many important strengths, significantly in its brands and will focus on building more including a diversified business, market leading brands, innovative and effective communication with its high brand recognition with customers and a motivated workforce.
I am confident that the successful execution of customers.
Making the marketing investment and the Groups brands work harder will be a major challenge the Groups strategy in 2009 will position the business for for the business this year as we seek to optimise our long term sustainable growth.
Innovation and product development Continued innovation and product development remain key to the Groups strategy in spite of the downturn.
Peter Plumb Customers are already benefiting from a more personalised search capability across the website, in the form of customer reviews, richer content and smart search tools and wizards.
Such innovations not only save customers money but also time.
The Group will continue to focus in 2009 on innovation and product development with the aim of saving customers more time and money.
The Group will also invest in developing its existing systems, both to simplify the customer proposition and to make more of what the Group already has.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Peter Plumb 21 21 M Mo on ne ey ys su up pe er rm ma ar rk ke et t.. c co om G m Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 00 08 8
