The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 16 Business review Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Ofcers review Given the increasingly challenging market environment in 2008, it is pleasing to report that all three Divisions delivered year-on-year increases in sales and operating profits.
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive officer The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 17 Business review Governance Financial statements Strategic priorities...
Underlying operating profit Strategy Continuing businesses m 98.2 Morgans vision is to be one of To focus on 3 78.9 the worlds very best advanced 56.4 higher growth, materials companies.
25.8 higher margin, Our aim is to create long-term 7.2 superior shareholder value.
non-economically 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 cyclical markets To help implement this vision and achieve our aim we have set five Underlying operating profit margin Continuing businesses % strategic priorities.
We use these to To be high lter new investment opportunities, 3 11.8 11.4 to screen our businesses for t with value-added to the existing Group and to identify 7.0 our customers areas requiring strategic attention 3.8 and action.
2.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 To be number one 3 or number two in our chosen market segments To have a culture 3 of operational excellence and cost efficiency To nd, keep 3 and develop the right people Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 18 Business review Governance Financial statements... delivering substantial progress Group results and petroleum markets along with robust John brings a wealth of experience to the I am pleased to report that Morgan Crucible demand in emerging market economies.
role on the back of his 18 years service with has delivered another healthy set of financial The focus on operational excellence in Morgan Crucible during which time he has results in 2008 against the backdrop of an the Division through the World Class lived and worked across the globe for the increasingly difficult economic environment.
Manufacturing WCM programme yielded Group in a range of different roles and good improvements in our manufacturing businesses.
John replaces Phil Wright who, Group revenues were up 20.5% on last processes.
Our commitment to remaining after 16 years of loyal and committed service year at 835.0 million.
For the first time at the forefront of world technical leadership to Morgan Crucible, retired from the Group in a number of years, currency translation in the insulating ceramics eld was at the end of the year.
Phil has successfully effects have actually been in our favour on underpinned by the opening of a new brought about significant changes to the the income statement with our reported global R&D centre in Bromborough, UK.
manufacturing footprint of the Molten Metal nancials benefiting from the strength of Systems business leaving it well positioned The Technical Ceramics Division also had the US dollar and the euro against sterling.
I would like to thank Phil an excellent year with revenues up from We also saw nine months of good financial personally for all of his contributions over 152.6 million in 2007 to 212.2 million contribution from the advanced ceramics the years.
in 2008, representing 3.3% growth on businesses acquired from Carpenter a constant currency basis and excluding Technology Corporation at the end Looking forward acquisitions.
There was good progress in of March.
Unprecedented volatility in the global the underlying business particularly in economy clearly makes it much more Overall organic sales growth, that is to say medical market applications with divisional difficult than usual to forecast the demand excluding the additional revenue from these performance also bolstered by the new outlook accurately.
However, our ongoing acquired businesses, was a very respectable revenue and earnings stream from the strategy of moving towards less economically 4% on a constant currency basis.
I am pleased to cyclical markets has successfully reduced report that these newly acquired businesses the Groups exposure to some of the sectors This revenue growth, allied with strong which predominantly serve the aerospace which came under particular pressure in ongoing operational management of the and power generation markets have the latter half of 2008 such as automotive, cost base, helped the Group to show delivered an excellent set of results in consumer goods and semiconductors.
continued improvement in profit margins their first nine months with the Group.
Demand in markets such as defence and despite the headwinds caused by inationary medical remained strong which to date has pressures in raw material and energy costs.
The Carbon Division also reported offset the softening we have seen in some Underlying operating profit margins for the year on year growth in revenues and sectors which are more aligned with the year were a healthy 11.8% compared to operating profits.
Revenues increased general industrial cycle.
Our goal as a Group remains from 216.6 million to 239.9 million: where we have seen weakening demand mid-teen operating profit margins in good representing 1.3% growth on a constant we have taken decisive actions to reduce times and double digit in bad times.
This revenue progress was the cost base.
Going forward, we remain achieved despite delays to the US military watchful and prepared to respond Pre-tax profit for the Group was 82.8 million: procurement programme for the next proactively to any other signs of slowdowns up 15.5% on the prior year.
Underlying generation of US body armour, X-SAPI.
in our end markets as they emerge.
earnings per share at 23.4 pence compared Encouragingly, the NP Aerospace business in to 19.7 pence last year also showed double which we acquired a 49% equity stake last The general economic environment is digit levels of year on year growth.
year nished a very successful 2008 with a clearly more difficult now than it has been strong order book for 2009 having secured for many years but I remain confident that Divisional highlights additional contracts from the UK military for Morgan Crucible is a higher quality, more Given the increasingly challenging market vehicle armouring applications.
resilient business than in the past.
As we environment in 2008 it is pleasing to report look to the future, we are committed to that all three Divisions delivered year-on-year Management demonstrating this quality and resilience increases in sales and operating profits.
A major priority for me as Group Chief over the next 12 months.
Executive remains to continue to develop Progress was particularly encouraging in the and enhance the senior management team Insulating Ceramics Division the Groups of Morgan Crucible with the next generation Mark Robertshaw largest Division by revenue which saw of home grown talent.
I am therefore Chief Executive officer revenues rise 18.2% from 324.0 million delighted to report that John Maxwell to 382.9 million: 6.1% on a constant was appointed CEO of the Molten Metal currency basis.
This was driven in particular Systems business unit formerly known as by large project orders into the chemical the Crucibles business on 1 October 2008.
