Chief Executive Of cers Review We believe that the combined B2C and B2B model is an essential key to successfully growing the business in 2009, and we therefore intend to continue focusing on both these lines of business.
Introduction The first half of 2008 was again a very successful trading period for 888 delivering record half year results and a seventh consecutive period of semi-annual growth.
Trading during the traditionally weaker summer months of July and August remained solid with TOI in August growing above Julys level.
However, like most business sectors, we were not immune to the unprecedented ferocity with which the global economy slowed.
Growth in September began to slow and that coupled with the extraordinarily volatile exchange rate movements especially the sharp decline in the value of European currencies versus the US dollar has impacted the business.
Delivering on our Strategy Despite the difficult circumstances, our underlying business 2008 marked another milestone in the delivery of our remained solid throughout the year, and we have delivered strategic goals in the completion of the transformation of our 21% revenue growth year on year.
We are confident in product offering and the significant evolution of our strategic our business model and strategy and find our successful partnership programme into a significant B2B business.
combination of a world class B2C organisation and an innovative B2B provider in the sector a strong model In the first half of the year we made strategic investments that enables us to deal better with the current challenges in both our offering and our brand.
The constant drive the industry faces.
As proof, our firm foundation of B2C to acquire and retain customers through an enhanced earnings, which was significantly expanded and diversified and innovative offering saw 888 transformed into a in 2008, was complemented by a rapid growth in our B2B comprehensive provider of the four key online gaming business in the year.
segments: Casino, Poker, Sportsbetting and Bingo as well as additional niche products such as Backgammon.
TOI increased 21% to US$263 million 2007: US$217 million underpinned by 208% growth in our Emerging Offering to In March we launched www.
com 888sport, US$45 million 2007: US$14 million with EBITDA increase a pan-European sports betting offering, developed with of 23% to US$56 million 2007: US$46 million.
Blue Square, the interactive gaming and betting division of Rank Group Plc.
The service was initially launched in five markets and we have also recently launched in one additional market and plan to further expand our geographic reach in 2009.
Our sports product delivered solid performance in its first year.
Before share benefit charges of US$8.4 million 2007: US$7.8 million and exchange rate losses of US$2.6 million 2007: gains of US$1.1 million.
indd 8 08 04 2009 17:46 08 04 2009 17:46 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Our Bingo offering has been significantly expanded and enhanced during the year.
888ladies, our new sub-brand targeted predominantly at a female audience, was officially launched in February and backed by a high profile TV campaign featuring well-known celebrity comedian Vic Reeves.
The launch was a huge success with customers and the industry alike as was recognised when we were named Bingo Operator of the Year at the eGaming Awards.
At the end of the year we announced the further expansion in the B2B side of our Bingo business, achieved by signing agreements to launch three new Bingo networks in addition to the seven we already operate.
One of these in Spain will be, for the first time, a localised offering tailored specifically for local tastes and customers.
In addition to operating our own brands we also host, on a full managed service basis, a number of skins and during the year agreements were signed to add another six new partners to the network.
Bingo remains the fastest growing segment in the online gaming industry and we feel we are very well positioned in this market.
The result of these activities was significant growth in the bingo business in 2008. gaming capabilities will yield significant mutual benefits.
As well as launching our own new products, in 2008 we Following this deal we are well positioned as one of the have evolved our strategy toward the creation of a gamesleading B2B providers to the industry, and given our recently ecosystem powered by our industry-leading integration announced deals and ongoing activity with some of the infrastructure.
This enables us to introduce a diversified leading online gaming operators, B2B will continue to be our offering to existing and new players rapidly and with a low main growth engine in the coming years.
cost of development and integration.
By opening up our platform for integration with games from other vendors we I am pleased that we continue to be awarded industry are offering our customers an accelerated rate of new games accolades for our innovation and our offering.
In 2008 we launches while offering third party game providers the best retained, for the third successive year, eGaming Awards platform on which to debut or grow the exposure of their Casino operator of the Year endorsing our global reach titles.
Over a dozen games integration contracts have been and market-leading position in this category and were also signed giving us access to more than 1,000 new games awarded the aforementioned Bingo operator of the Year.
We of which 22 are already launched in various parts of our also picked up Leisure Reports Best Betting and Gaming business.
Award for a second year running and Operator of the Year beating strong competition from across the general leisure This dual approach, which gives us the ability to introduce sector.
games easily and quickly into local markets, will remain a core element of our strategy as we strive to increase Our approach and success in B2C marketing is one of customer loyalty and lifetime value and continue to attract 888s key differentiators: where 888 innovates, many follow.
Marketing was a key component to the success of our product launches for both 888sport and 888ladies.
Strategic 2008 was a transformational year in terms of our B2B sport sponsorships and associations such as Sevilla FC, business, which grew rapidly throughout the year.
The real World Snooker Championship and the Shane Warne step change for our B2B operations came in June with captaincy of the 888 poker team give the brand valuable the ground-breaking partnership we signed with Sportech high profile visibility.
These initiatives, coupled with our ability PLC, one of the UKs leading gaming businesses.
Under to localise our marketing efforts across multiple channels, the partnership 888 provides Sportech with a turnkey online continue to support successfully our geographic expansion gaming operation which includes our market leading gaming and generation of significant numbers of new players.
and back-end software, customer support and payments processing as well as for the first time the marketing of all their products online.
We believe the combination of Sportechs brands in global pools sports betting coupled with our software, operations, Internet marketing and online Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 16254888COM FRONT.
indd 9 08 04 2009 17:46 08 04 2009 17:46 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Chief Executive Of cers Review continued We continue to recognise the importance of customer loyalty, Responsible Gaming as building strong relationships leads to people playing more We take our responsibilities as an international gaming games, more often, for more time.
As product offerings are operator extremely seriously.
We continue to lead the market increasingly tailored to individual markets and segments, in our support of the prevention of under-age and problem the CRM teams continued to run localised promotions gaming and promotion of responsible gaming.
2008 was no throughout the year.
Alongside front of house promotions, exception and was marked by the introduction of a unique ongoing improvement in our support systems and services product called the Observer.
Observer was developed with also helped to ensure that customers kept coming back Dr Mark Griffiths, a Chartered Psychologist and Professor to 888. of Gambling Studies at the Nottingham Trent University.
A complex set of parameters including financial and During 2008 we also opened up further communication behavioural data are used to flag up customers who might channels through which we are able to contact customers.
be at risk from becoming a problem gambler.
This data is The magazine Eight remains popular amongst customers, analysed and investigated and action taken in partnership and direct mail has now been augmented with SMS with the customer to prevent or resolve a potential problem messaging.
This, coupled with targeted segmentation of situation.
the customer base, now means players receive information of particular interest to them immediately.
The delivery of Last year we launched a specialist website promotions and tournament reminders in this way also helps www.
com dedicated exclusively to to drive traffic online.
It is a comprehensive site covering all aspects of responsible gaming practices, dealing with People problem gambling and preventing under-age gambling.
Our ability to recruit and retain high calibre employees is In 2008 we also ran a specific campaign aimed at raising fundamental to our success and we continue to add talented potential under-age gamers and parents awareness of people to our world-class team.
It is not just that our people under-age gambling issues.
have a direct influence on the way our customers feel when they are playing our games the integrity and expertise Our 2009 Focus of our people is central to our strategy, execution and We believe that the combined B2C B2B model is an innovation.
I would like to personally thank each and every essential key to growing the business successfully in 2009, employee for their support and hard work in the past year.
and therefore intend to continue focusing on both these lines of business.
Regulation The regulatory landscape within which we operate remains We have taken the decision to operate B2B as a separate unstable in some regions.
Whilst the European Court of business unit as our strategy for our B2B business is to Justices ruling in the Placanica case restated the importance become a leading provider of technology, operations and of EU regulations to our industry, there have been some knowledge to new entrants to the market using our existing mixed messages from the EU Parliament.
The B2B business will be relaunched under we view EU developments positively and we have seen a a separate brand with its own sales force and we have continued trend throughout the year of additional European appointed a separate Managing Director to the business.
jurisdictions embarking on a path to license and regulate We have a very strong pipeline with more than 50 deals online gaming, a route which we clearly welcome.
We will expand organically but will also look to grow our footprint through the acquisition of B2B As stated in our announcement dated 5 June 2007, we technology enablers to accelerate our growth.
We have have initiated preliminary discussions with the United States already announced a deal this year, signed in January, Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York focusing on Continental Europe and expect to announce relating to our activity in the US prior to the signing of the more deals during the year.
It is too early to assess any particular outcome of these discussions.
Alongside the fast developing B2B business we will continue to focus on our B2C offerings with the introduction of a no download games tab, Live dealer in Europe and Bingo into a number of additional European markets including Spain.
These developments, alongside further geographic expansion are expected to drive the growth of our B2C business even in these turbulent times.
indd 10 08 04 2009 17:46 08 04 2009 17:46 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Third party games integration continues and 2009 will see a The broader economic climate remains challenging as does major step as the platform will become a full multi-currency the weakness of the European currencies, affecting our US$ offering, allowing customers to play localised games that reported revenues.
However, whilst remaining cautious in appeal to them, in their local language, in their local currency.
our outlook, we are confident our customers will continue to This is expected to have a positive impact on both our B2C enjoy our services and that the overall strength and resilience and B2B businesses.
of the business will ensure we weather this turbulent period well.
Just as we managed to grow market share after the Outlook industry was hit by the closure of the US market, we are Our plans for 2009 will be to both grow our player base and confident we will outperform the market in these challenging maximise customers Life Time Value for both us and our times and continue to grow our business.
B2B partners by offering new and innovative products.
Our B2B business, which saw the first full year of operation in 2008, is already showing further growth in 2009.
Our sustained performance in B2C will be achieved by a continued focus on customer needs and the growing Gigi Levy attractiveness of our offering.
Specifically, opening up our Chief Executive Of cer platform to integration with games created by other vendors, will continue delivering customers with ongoing innovation in 2009.
The combination of our leading B2C business and our fastgrowing B2B business gives us a very good base for growth in 2009 and beyond.
