Chief executives report Our progress is built on a simple strategy, which creates a clear point of difference between Northern Foods and other food companies Stefan Barden Chief Executive Our strategy Dear Shareholders Our progress is built on a simple strategy which creates a I am pleased to report that Northern Foods clear point of difference between Northern Foods and other food companies.
This strategy has three priorities.
is delivering steady top and bottom line growth.
This is driven by our focus on Strategic priority one: targeting attractive, growing market segments making great tasting food that consumers Our target markets grew at a weighted average of 5.2% in want to buy again and again and again.
2007 08 and, we forecast, similar growth over the next couple of years.
In uncertain times, Northern Foods benefits from operating across diverse food markets.
These can be Every day, in thousands of stores around the UK and Ireland, characterised in a number of ways: for example, by temperature millions of people are casting their vote for food cooked chilled, ambient and frozen, by lifestyle healthy, indulgent, by Northern Foods chefs every time one of our products or by season winter biased, summer biased.
This gives us an is purchased.
Their vote is the ultimate test of the quality element of natural hedge that reduces but does not eliminate and value for money we deliver every day.
some of the volatility to which our Group is exposed.
Understanding how consumers view the products we deliver During 2007 08, we have consolidated our position in our five day in, day out is crucial to our success.
Each of our businesses selected markets, with three bolt-on acquisitions which added focuses on our most important performance measure the new capacity for us but which did not expand market supply, so number of units sold of each product, per store, per week.
We helping us maintain our pricing power with our retail customers: are constantly seeking to improve our performance against this in Ready Meals we acquired two facilities: Ethnic Cuisine, and, as a result, in 2007 08 we have delivered greater sales revenue.
which supplies Sainsburys with Chinese ready meals: and the Baxters chilled soup site in Grimsby: However, it is not sufficient for us simply to grow the business.
in Frozen Pastry, we bought the rights to the McDougalls We also have to do so profitably, driving enhanced returns frozen pastry assets and brands, which we have successfully for shareholders.
This requires tough choices to be made.
transferred to our Irish facility in Portumna.
We have culled poor selling products, exited unprofitable retailer own label contracts and eliminated unprofitable promotions.
Each of these acquisitions was completed at an attractive cost We have driven efficiencies across the business, taking out to us and two came with experienced workforces.
We have also cost where sufficient value is not added or where we are not grown organically.
We had a good year in our Chilled division, achieving world class performance.
We invest and utilise cash despite the poor summer weather, and our performance in selectively across the Group, targeting additional returns.
This disciplined, performance orientated approach has improved Strategic priority two: focusing on customers that value quality profitability.
We continue to generate free cash flow.
Our strong and service balance sheet provides a solid platform for growth: this year we We are working with customers who are scale players, with single funded a share buy-back and three bolt-on acquisitions which points of negotiation and few distribution points.
These customers will strengthen the business.
value what we do: making great tasting food, to the highest food safety standards, delivered promptly, at the right price.
This was all delivered against a backcloth of unprecedented market volatility, in which significant commodity cost increases We are focused on creating a true point of difference between have been successfully recovered.
We have demonstrated that ourselves and our competitors.
This point of difference gives the basics of running the business are now in place: we have our retail customers the benefit of improved repeat purchase identified and made good progress in eliminating the priority by their shoppers.
Improved rate of sale, per store, per week performance issues of a year ago: and, most importantly, translates into above average category growth for our customers.
we continue to build a better business.
This approach helps us to build our customers businesses by giving them crucial shopper loyalty.
Our chosen markets are growing at a weighted average of 5.2% Year on year market growth 5 2.2 Ready meals 6 Sandwiches 7.0 7 Salads wet and prepared 7.5 7 Pizza frozen and chilled 6.8 8 Christmas Puddings 0 7 5 Biscuits TNS Worldpanel 52 w e 23 03 08 6.3 6 TNS Scantrack MAT 15 03 08 7 ACN Scantrack MAT 22 03 08 Average growth 5.2 8 Internal estimate Northern Foods plc | Chief executives report 5 The Corporate social responsibility CSR agenda is increasingly Taking individual responsibility for actions has allowed us to take important to both ourselves and our customers.
Northern Foods out management tiers.
This has reduced cost, enabled faster is a leader in this, building on our strong heritage and supporting decision making and created ownership of results.
We have also our customers in delivering their specific commitments and worked hard to make remuneration more variable with greater targets.
Our CSR report explains more about our achievements upside for results and clear action on under-performance.
and plans, from which all of our stakeholders, including our customers, benefit.
In an industry short of available talent, we want to be an employer of choice.
We are committed to developing our talent We seek to maintain good, professional relationships with at every level.
This was one reason why I accepted, on behalf all of our customers.
We see ourselves as custodians of our of Northern Foods, a directorship on the Board of Improve, shareholders investments in assets which supply the retailers.
the governments Sector Skills Council for the food manufacturing We believe that we have an obligation to our customers to provide industry.
In addition, we have signed the governments Skills them with food which improves their business and, in return, Pledge which commits Northern Foods to aspiring to give all we have an obligation to our shareholders to generate an of our employees the opportunity to be trained to an accredited acceptable return on any investment we make in each retailer.
We are the first food manufacturer to have done this.
Across our workforce, we are working with service providers Strategic priority three: a low cost operating model to deliver certification in food safety, as well as training in We have adopted a low cost operating model.
We are developing continuous improvement, product development, health and and strengthening our culture of effective cash and capital safety, and lean manufacturing.
Improved disciplines have seen capital invested A further demonstration of our commitment to our employees much more selectively, focused on good margin business training and development agenda can be seen in our which generates real returns for our shareholders.
The capital re-activated graduate training programme.
We have committed investment we currently require remains well below our historic 450,000 to helping 150 technical graduates through university depreciation although increased expenditure will be made over the next five years, boosting food science resource for the where future returns are strong.
Working capital is also tightly industry as well as ourselves.
Helping to drive this culture within the Group, each business is now charged weekly a notional sum for Summary the shareholders capital that it utilises.
Looking ahead, we are well placed to deliver our targets of improved returns for our shareholders and of making Northern Our cost out agenda has been a key contributor to our Foods a great place to work.
Our goal is for increasing numbers increased margins.
Across the business we are driving efficiency of consumers to purchase our great tasting food every day.
through a combination of rationalisation and investment in This will enable Northern Foods to continue to deliver steady automation.
As part of this, we have reduced our corporate top and bottom line growth.
centre in Leeds to just one floor, housing only 35 people, completing our 12m central cost reduction programme.
Stefan Barden Chief Executive Performance culture and talent agenda 27 May 2008 As our strategy begins to deliver results, we are working hard to embed success throughout the organisation.
Key to this is our focus on building a performance culture and differentiating ourselves through our talent agenda.
To get the best results every day requires a strong performance culture.
Empowered, focused business units, operating with disciplined weekly reporting, ensures that everyone is committed to delivering their promises.
Looking ahead, we are well placed to deliver our targets of improved returns for our shareholders and of making Northern Foods a great place to work 6 Chief executives report | Northern Foods plc Ready Meals We target Our Ready Meals add value through attractive delivering genuinely market leading growing products markets Pizza Sandwiches & Salads Constant innovation Strong cost control and ongoing range together with selective refreshes continued product development to drive Goodfellas maintained a robust performance margin performance Biscuits Puddings Our new brand We successfully strategy will ensure launched The Pudding, we maximise a new premium the strengths of branded offer for the Foxs brand Christmas 2007 Northern Foods plc | Chief executives report 7
