14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review 15 Interview with the Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Group Chief Executive Interview with the Group Chief Executive Petrofacs Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, comments on the progress made by the Company during 2008 and its plans for the future.
2008 was another very successful year for Petrofac.
Al-Ahmadi refinery in Kuwait and new contracts to construct gas What are the main factors behind this achievement?
treatment plants for the Ebla and Jihar projects in Syria.
I am very proud of our performance during the year, which was the direct result of the expertise and commitment of our workforce In Operations Services, we completed our first full year of operating around the world.
Our people set themselves the highest standards Dubais offshore assets.
While our operations continue to progress and do their utmost to achieve them, at all times and on every well, sadly, a helicopter incident occurred approximately 70 project we work on.
kilometres off the Dubai coast on 3 September 2008.
There were no Petrofac personnel onboard but the two aircrew and five Petrofac has always had an entrepreneurial culture and this is passengers, who worked for companies contracted to Dubai something that we strive to maintain.
We try and do things Petroleum, all lost their lives.
This was a terrible tragedy, and the differently and are open to new ideas and new commercial models investigation by the authorities in Dubai to identify the cause is still that deliver more value for our customers, as well as for our ongoing.
We work in some challenging environments and incidents shareholders.
For example, we can provide our services through a like this show why the safety of our people and all those impacted number of commercial formats.
From straightforward reimbursable by our operations is absolutely key to everything we do at Petrofac.
arrangements with or without an element of performance-based income to lump-sum turnkey agreements, all the way through to During 2008, Operations Services finalised arrangements to co-investing with our customers in upstream and infrastructure provide turnkey operations services on the Northern Producer, the projects where that meets their needs and ours.
floating production facility on the Don fields in the North Sea which are being developed by our Energy Developments business, and Another important factor behind our success is the number of our extended our Duty Holder contracts with BHP Billiton Irish Sea people who own shares in the Company and therefore have a Pioneer and Venture Production Kittiwake.
direct, personal interest in delivering long-term and sustainable value.
More than 40% of our shares belong to employees and Energy Developments made significant progress with the Don fields approximately one in five of our employees are either shareholders during the year and first oil is expected during the first half of 2009. or participate in our share award schemes.
In Tunisia, the commercial export of gas from the Chergui plant commenced in August.
We have been able to expand the plant How is the economic downturn impacting on Petrofac?
capacity by more than 20% and have delivered higher than Triggered by the liquidity crisis in the banking sector, the broader expected productivity from the reservoir.
As a result we are macroeconomic environment clearly changed very dramatically negotiating a revised higher volume gas sales contract with during the second half of 2008 and, although governments across the offtaker.
the world have taken concerted action to support the banking system and to stimulate demand, confidence remains low and What does the sales pipeline look like for 2009 and beyond?
the near-term prospects for the global economy continue to be It continues to look very good indeed.
In response to rapidly falling forecasts of economic those in our key geographies of the Middle East and North Africa, activity, all commodity prices, including oil, have fallen dramatically are making long-term decisions based on relatively low long-range from the all-time highs hit last year.
So far in 2009 we have secured contract awards of around US$2.8 billion see page 32.
Against this extremely challenging backdrop I am pleased to say that Petrofac remains in a strong position and, although we cannot Looking at the medium-term, where and how do you expect ignore external circumstances, I believe we are very well-placed Petrofac to grow?
Our geographic focus, particularly in the For the last five years, we have achieved very healthy growth in Middle East and Africa, where the cost of oil production is relatively revenue in excess of 35% per annum and I believe we can maintain low, the extensive long-term relationships we have established with good growth over the medium-term, considering the strength of world-class national and international oil companies and our our backlog and the visibility this gives to our earnings.
competitive cost structure all put us in a strong competitive position as we have shown by our continuing success in winning We will retain our focus on the Middle East and Africa, the new business.
Commonwealth of Independent States, the UK Continental Shelf UKCS and the Asia Pacific region.
These are areas where we have What have been the key events of 2008?
a wealth of established relationships and a proven track record.
The Engineering & Construction division continued to execute We will continue to grow organically as well as through selective projects with great skill and resourcefulness.
2008 saw many acquisitions that add depth and breadth to our capability.
impressive achievements, including the securing of a major contract to engineer, procure and build a gas pipeline to the Mina Subsequent to the approval of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts by the Directors on 6 March 2009, the group announced a further lump-sum EPC award for the El Merk project in Algeria, with a contract value of US$2.2 billion.
This takes the total of the groups new contract awards in 2009 to US$5.0 billion.
16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 What is the rationale behind the recent restructuring?
Interview with the Group Chief The new organisational structure that was implemented on 1 January 2009 will be the basis for growth in the medium-term.
Executive continued A key driver for our current success has been our differentiated offering in the marketplace and it is important that we build on this model by promoting collaboration and co-operation between our In what way will the strategy develop over the short to various business units.
Our strategy is clear and unchanged.
We will maintain our focus on Following extensive debate among the executive team and senior oil & gas while also broadening our capability into areas such as management throughout 2008, it became clear that we needed to offshore engineering and liquefied natural gas as well as expanding evolve our structure in order to improve integration and create a our geographic footprint into markets including Saudi Arabia and broader platform for growth.
The new structure is outlined in detail West Africa.
This strategy is delivering tremendous opportunities for organic How would you summarise the year and the outlook?
growth, however, at the same time, we will continue to look for Overall, 2008 was an excellent year for Petrofac.
Our backlog, acquisitions that fit with our strategic objectives.
Caltec and Eclipse continued geographic focus, new structure and strong bidding came into the group in 2008 and I am pleased to say that both are pipeline combined with the commitment and dedication of our adding valuable depth to the services we provide to our customers people around the world are the foundations for what I believe and have improved our capability to deliver projects through the will be a very successful future.
Production Solutions business unit using a gain-share model.
Partnership will also remain a key element in the strategy.
The year saw us form joint ventures in Indonesia with IKPT and in Abu Dhabi with Mubadala Petroleum Services Company.
Ayman Asfari Are you making progress on providing more integrated Group Chief Executive capabilities to projects?
Many customers are keen to access a wider range of our services on specific projects and we have continued to work hard to integrate our capabilities more closely.
There are numerous examples of our three divisions working together to deliver benefits to customers.
For example, at the Chergui gas plant in Tunisia we are not only co-investing, thereby sharing the risk and aligning ourselves with our customers interests, but we have also provided engineering, design, procurement and build expertise and are currently supporting the ongoing operations.
Through Production Solutions, a new business unit created by our recent restructuring, we are now extending the groups offering by packaging our services and delivering them to customers on a quasi-equity or gain-share basis, where our returns are directly related to the value added to the customer through enhanced production.
Business review 17 Interview with the Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Group Chief Executive 1 3 2 4 1.
