03 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Questions & Answers with Harriet Green, CEO Harriet Green became CEO You described your new strategy in The journey of Premier Farnell in April Q last year's annual report.
How has continues 2006 and began a journey the strategy evolved over the past year and how is to transform the business through a simple strategy Premier Farnell different from 12 months ago?
focused on delivering consistent, profitable growth.
Later that year she commenced a strategic review of The past 12 months have been a very the business, involving employees from right across A exciting time for us as we have worked the organisation.
The result was a 3 year plan to to implement and embed our strategy globally.
We have transform the organisation through focusing on the made huge strides forward in the major areas of the strategy, needs of electronic design engineers globally, driving without ever losing sight of the absolute fundamentals of business via the web, internationalising the Premier what our customers expect from a high service distributor Farnell business model into new and emerging thats great service, the right products, and superior logistics markets and continuing to support the needs of that get the right goods to the right place at the right time, the maintenance and repair segment.
Here she talks to us at the end of the first year of I believe our strong financial performance for the year is the Groups strategic plan and reviews progress.
a healthy indication that we have the right strategy for the future.
Our changes are clearly beginning to deliver greater value judging by the high numbers of new customers and suppliers we have attracted during the year.
The rapidly gaining momentum across the business is hugely encouraging.
We have made huge strides forward in the major areas of the strategy, without ever losing sight of the abso lute fundamentals of what our customers expect.
Harriet Green Chief Executive Officer 04 Questions & Answers continued Our sales have accelerated globally through the year as What do you see as the highlights of we have continued to outperform the market and drive Q the year for Premier Farnell?
How will profitability, despite currency and market fluctuations.
you capitalise further on your strengths and address We have delivered our second full year of gross margin the weaknesses?
stability, nine quarters in total, which is industry differentiating.
Indeed all of our financial metrics have improved year on year.
Undoubtedly the major highlight for the year A has been our robust financial performance Our focus for the year has been on rigorous implementation which sees us end the year in a strong position of sales of the strategy and really listening to the voice of our growth, margin stability, increased profitability and costs customers and suppliers.
There are many differences clearly as a percentage of sales decreasing despite our ongoing evident from 12 months ago.
Our service offering to electronic design engineers is vastly We have the people and plans in place to deliver the strategy improved as we continue to expand our offering of world and although the first year has seen us make significant class suppliers and technology specialists to meet their needs progress there is still much to do and we have a number and improve our data, support and information services too.
of plans to further differentiate ourselves.
It is critical that we Since we began our strategic evolution we have added 62 continue to listen to the voice of our customers and continue new suppliers to our portfolio and over 138,000 lines of to innovate to meet their needs and requirements.
product, along with some exciting new tools and services.
Each of the regions of our Marketing and Distribution Division Also during the year we launched our new world class web MDD business began the year from a different place and so platform across Europe and Asia, following its successful despite progress across the board, our transformation plans launch in the USA in December 2006, creating a truly global must continue with the same vigour in the coming year.
We have continued to invest and enhance our We have plans in place to address the parts of the business web offering and have many more local language websites where growth has not been as fast as necessary and now than a year ago, with ever improving speed and search have made some very powerful changes to our customer capabilities.
proposition already that we believe will further differentiate us.
We have expanded our business operations significantly Our Industrial Products Division has had a very strong year, and have launched businesses in China, India, and Eastern delivering stellar results.
The growth has come largely Europe over the last 12 months.
In April 2007 we disposed from their strategic progress, most notably the continued of BuckHickman to the BSS Group as we did not anticipate diversification into new industry segments and international the business would be capable of achieving the target we markets.
In the longer term the investments we were making in our core strategy would have been unlikely to With aggressive customer acquisition plans in place we benefit this business.
feel optimistic about what we must deliver in year two of the strategy.
Investment in our people has also been a significant pillar of our strategy.
As an intermediary, service excellence is key to our success and knowledgeable, engaged people are critical to a positive customer experience.
We have made enormous progress in this area and significant investments to develop our internal talent.
At the same time we have attracted industry experienced talent to our leadership teams in all businesses in all regions.
We now have strong succession plans in place across the organisation, covering most of the senior management positions, with further bench-strength developing all the time.
Together we are determined to build a high performance culture where everyone is constantly working to raise the bar of their own performance and delight customers.
So much has happened and changed this year everything from the creation of a carbon reduction plan to new technology initiatives which all feel very different, and better.
05 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Why are you targeting the global EDE The web is the primary research channel for this community Q customer segment?
as they continue to transform and shape the world in which we will live so our web strategy must constantly evolve to The electronic design engineering segment meet their needs.
A globally is conservatively estimated to be growing at between 6-8%, and this growth will only Internationally the needs of the EDE market are very similar accelerate with the increasing demands we, as consumers, and expansion is truly global.
Every year hundreds of place on our designers for products that are smaller, look thousands of engineers leave universities around the world, better and are kinder to the environment.
Aesthetics and more in China and India than anywhere else, hence our environmental considerations now play a critical part in critical focus in these new markets.
Our customer base is quite brilliant in some of the work they are doing, pushing the boundaries of science and Our suppliers recognise our strength in seeding their new technology forward creating, solving world problems, technologies to the design community and are keen to innovating and demanding more from their electronics partner with us ever more closely on specialist programmes suppliers.
Whether creating the latest medical equipment, and activities.
Having the right suppliers and technology PC or environmental control products our designers need us offering remains key to our design engineering community to be equally brilliant and responsive.
It is critical that we listen and weve added over 60 new suppliers, all keen to be a part to their needs and exceed their expectations consistently.
of our market differentiating customer proposition.
For design engineers immediate access to products that enable them to meet their own time to market challenges is critical and with our ability to offer next day delivery to most parts of the globe and our extensive range of stocked parts we really do have an industry leading proposition globally.
With the web as a key part of your Q strategy, aren't you worried about Our customers are quite brilliant copycats and the low barriers to entry?
in the work they are doing, It may be relatively simple to start a basic pushing the boundaries of science A website but it is what lies behind it that will and technology forward.
also make the difference to our customers.
Our web channel is evolving constantly, requiring significant investment in tools, resources and technology to continue to meet our customer needs as a part of our multi channel customer experience.
The levels of sophistication of search, speed and simplicity we have achieved require investment, time and expertise.
Then beyond the web investment the quality of service to the customer will be based on the established distribution principles of the right products, stock, logistics excellence and next day delivery.
The availability of quality data is also critical every product needs full and accurate technical and environmental parameters.
Momentum from the implementation of the new web front end across the business continues to build, with web sales up 33% in the year.
Some countries are already performing well above our target to transact 50% of our business via the web, and a goal of transacting 50-70% of our business via the web now seems more realistic.
The levels of activity were seeing in mainland Europe for example, now equate to us receiving an order via the web every ten seconds!
06 Questions & Answers continued Engineers want to be able to place orders at any time that Now that you'five established businesses suits them and our web sites make this very possible.
We Q in China and Eastern Europe and have also seen a significant increase in organic search, entered the Indian market, are there progressive and increasing average order values: and a other parts of the world you are focusing on?
How will significant increase in both new customer and repeat visits you proceed with expansion?
The completed integration of sophisticated new customer and web analytics software, supporting the Our internationalisation plans are certainly continued enhancements and improvements we are making A well on track, starting with the launch of to our customer experience, underpins much of our recent Premier Electronics in China last year, a business that is growth, as we continue to build on the investments made.
starting to show strong growth as it continues to transition from its former Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO, Our multi-channel approach will be enhanced by the lower margin, customer base to focus closely on the faster imminent launch of new catalogues across Europe and Asia growing, profitable EDE segment.
offering extended product ranges, carefully selected to meet customer demand.
As a group we distribute over a million We are now active in four East European countries as we catalogues in over 50 language, country and price variations, invest in local language websites, catalogues and resources not to mention our extensive direct mail programmes both in Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Customers value our multi-channel growth in this vibrant market is planned.
offering and with our call centres, branch network and trade counters offering extended hours and our sales force We are now starting to build on the power and reputation continuing to grow we are doing everything we can of our brand in the fast growing Indian market from the eight to ensure our customers can reach us via whichever office locations now in place.
Driving value from all of our channel they choose.
new markets will be a feature of the year ahead.
In 2007 we organised a unique environmental design challenge called Live Edge and had participation from design engineers in 102 countries so there is certainly scope for further internationalisation plans.
We intend to establish an early leadership position in our focus markets of China, India and Eastern Europe.
The Board remains open to acquisition opportunities if they are the right ones and complement our existing offering.
Having the right suppliers and technology offering remains key to our design engineering community and weve added over 60 new suppliers, all keen to be a part of our market differentiating customer proposition.
07 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Are you looking to get out of your Customers value our multi-channel Q traditional MRO space?
offering and with our call centres, branch Absolutely not!
We have been committed network and trade counters offering A from the outset of our strategic review to exten ded hours and our sales force continue our extensive offering and support to this important continuing to grow we are doing customer base.
The maintenance and repair segment is growing more slowly than the EDE space, but continues to everything we can to ensure our be profitable and therefore remains a key part of our business.
customers can reach us via We have added new franchises and products to support this whichever channel they choose.
segment throughout the year and will continue to do so.
Indeed, many products like test equipment are used by engineers from both our principal segments.
How do you view the coming year?
Q As another exciting challenge as we drive the A flawless execution of a good strategy!
You talk a lot about technologies that We have much to do but I believe that we have the strategy, Q help the environment.
What is Premier the people and the focus needed to really drive the business Farnell doing to positively impact the environment?
forward with even greater momentum than we have achieved this year.
As I have said before, our strategy is not a one-off We established a strong leadership position event but a journey, constantly moving us closer to where we A through RoHS, supporting our customers want and need to be for our employees, our customers, our globally with RoHS compliant products, information and suppliers and shareholders.
support to enable them to comply with the requirements and legislation in their own countries.
We have continued to support our customers through the growing range of environmental legislation, including REACH and WEEE, with product, information and advice.
We believe that responsible design is critical for the future of our world and will play our part in encouraging it.
Indeed, our Live Edge challenge encouraging environmentally friendly design and product was such a huge success, attracting, over 3,500 entrants, that we will be running it again this year, as part of our commitment.
We are serious about Corporate Social Responsibility as I hope our CSR report demonstrates and view our commitments to the environment and society as an important aspect of our business.
We have also developed our own three-year plan to reduce our carbon emissions globally to the lowest practical level for our business.
We have many other initiatives taking place across the world, including a focus on sustainable procurement and ethical trading practices.
I am very proud of the way our employees embrace multiple opportunities to help us fulfil our responsibilities to become an even better corporate citizen.
