I am pleased to report on a very successful 6 year for Reed Elsevier with major progress Reed Elsevier in developing the business, and the Annual Reports and Financial Statements strongest constant currency adjusted 2008 earnings per share growth in a decade.
Good revenue growth was seen across Chief most of the business driven by the growing demand for online information and Executive workflow solutions.
This, together with Officers a strong focus on restructuring and cost report management delivered meaningful margin improvement.
Operating cash generation Sir Crispin Davis was excellent.
Whilst the economic Chief Executive Officer environment has become progressively more challenging, our business is more resilient than most and we are in a I am pleased to report strong financial position.
on a very successful year Underpinning Reed Elseviers progress in for Reed Elsevier with major recent years has been a consistent focus progress in developing the on three strategic priorities: driving online workflow solutions with our professional business, and the strongest customer base: reshaping the portfolio into constant currency adjusted a faster growing, more cohesive whole: and earnings per share growth improving cost efficiency and stronger margin growth.
Good revenue growth was seen across Driving workflow solutions most of the business driven As our customers increasingly conduct their business online, this gives Reed by the growing demand Elsevier significant opportunities to for online information leverage technology to provide information and workflow solutions.
driven solutions and embed our online products into their workflows.
This enhances customer productivity and effectiveness.
In 2008, over 50% of Reed Elseviers revenues ie 2.7 billion u3.4 billion were online and these revenues grew at 14% at constant currencies.
The year saw further demonstrable progress across the business from continued investment in online product development, both from the launch of a wide range of new, innovative products, and from customers responding positively to the benefits of these products.
Online revenue $bn 5.0 4.3 3.6 3.3 2.8 04 05 06 07 08 Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information In Elsevier, subscription renewals reached Improving cost efficiency 7 record levels whilst other online solutions The $290 million restructuring programme Reed Elsevier for the scientific and healthcare announced in February 2008 is progressing Annual Reports and Financial Statements communities grew rapidly.
Online legal well and is expected to deliver a 2 year cash 2008 information solutions have continued to payback, with the targeted 2008 cost savings expand, and there is growing demand for of $30 million delivered and the targeted Chief information analytics in the risk market.
$200 million annual savings by 2011 on track.
In legal research we see significant The scope of the programme has now been Executive opportunities for more intuitive and expanded both to include the RBI business Officers interoperable offerings to enhance and to add further restructuring and report customer productivity and are stepping consolidation opportunities which have been up our investment to reflect this.
identified, reflecting the good progress made continued and the more challenging economic Reed Business Informations successful environment.
The additional savings identified organic development over the past few represent a 2 year payback on a further years of innovative products and significant $220 million of restructuring costs, and give online franchises is now delivering over additional targeted annual savings of $150 330 million u420 million of revenues.
million by 2011: the bulk of this represents the inclusion of RBI in the programme.
Reshaping the portfolio The year has also seen a major reshaping Financial performance of our business with completion of the 2008 saw a strong financial performance.
sale of the remaining Harcourt Education Revenues from continuing operations businesses and the acquisition of were up 7%, adjusted operating profits ChoicePoint.
ChoicePoint transforms our up 12% and adjusted earnings per share position in the risk information and analytics up 15%, all at constant currencies, with sector and the strategic and financial good performances seen across almost benefits are very attractive.
The business all the businesses.
has performed well with the insurance data and services business, which accounts for Elsevier had a successful year driven by the substantial majority of ChoicePoints new publishing and continued expansion operating profits, delivering 10% year-on-year of our online information and workflow organic revenue growth.
The integration with solutions as well as increasing cost our existing risk business is progressing efficiency.
The year saw good underlying well and we are confident of achieving our revenue growth, significant underlying savings targets.
margin improvement, and further major progress in the development of the business.
We were disappointed not to be able to sell Reed Business Information, but the macroLexisNexis had a good year despite more economic environment and poor credit challenging markets with continued growth market conditions made it too difficult to in online information solutions in the US structure a transaction on acceptable terms.
large law firm market and internationally, Whilst the short term outlook for RBI is very and good growth in risk information and challenging, RBI is a high quality business, analytics markets.
Good revenue growth with a strong management team.
It remains and the cost actions taken to improve our intention to divest RBI in the medium efficiency delivered significant underlying term when conditions are more favourable.
Adjusted operating margin % Return on capital employed % 12.1 25.9 11.8 24.8 11.0 24.0 23.0 23.0 10.2 9.4 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Reed Exhibitions had an exceptional year The Boards are recommending an increase 8 with successful major shows and the net in the equalised final dividends for Reed Reed Elsevier cycling in of biennial exhibitions, and Elsevier PLC of 10% and a decrease for Annual Reports and Financial Statements demonstrated that, in an increasingly online Reed Elsevier NV of 7%, to give total 2008 world, face to face exhibitions continue to dividends for the year up 12% and down 5% deliver significant value for exhibitors and for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Chief visitors alike.
The difference in growth rates in the equalised dividends reflects the Executive Reed Business Information held up well significant strengthening of the euro against Officers despite difficult economic conditions sterling since the prior year.
report throughout most of the year.
This was, however, not enough to counter the recent Additionally, in January 2008, we returned to continued impact on advertising markets of the shareholders an aggregate 2.0 billion u2.7 downturn in global economic conditions.
billion from the net proceeds of the Harcourt Education sale via a special distribution of The quality of the operating profits is 82.0p per share for Reed Elsevier PLC and underpinned by strong cash flow, with 102% u1.767 for Reed Elsevier NV.
of adjusted operating profits converting into cash.
Free cash flow before restructuring, Strong financial position acquisition spend and dividends was Following the return to shareholders of 999 million u1,259 million.
The return on 2.0 billion u2.7 billion of net proceeds average capital employed for the continuing from the Harcourt Education sale and the businesses increased further to 12.1% post 2.1 billion u2.7 billion acquisition of tax, the fifth successive year of rising returns.
ChoicePoint, Reed Elsevier remains in a strong financial position with excellent Earnings per share and dividends cash generation.
In January 2009 we issued At reported exchange rates, adjusted $1.6 billion of term debt as part of our earnings per share were up 24% for Reed planned refinancing of the ChoicePoint Elsevier PLC to 44.6p and 9% for Reed acquisition facility and Reed Elseviers term Elsevier NV to u0.87.
The higher growth in debt maturities are well spaced over the sterling than the 15% at constant currencies next few years.
In February we extended reflects sterling weakness against the prior our revolving credit facilities beyond the year and the lower growth in euros reflects 2010 maturity.
Over the next 12-18 months the strengthening of the euro.
our focus is on repayment of debt and to restore Reed Elseviers credit ratios to Reported earnings per share were down more usual levels.
56% to 22.1p and 60% to u0.44 for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV respectively, principally reflecting that 2007 reported earnings included the gain on sale of Harcourt Education businesses and prior year tax credits.
150 years Grays Anatomy In September 2008, Elsevier celebrated the 150th anniversary of the original publication of Grays Anatomy: The Anatomical Basis of Clinical Practice, publishing the 40th edition of this world-renowned anatomical reference.
With more than 2,000 images in full colour, users of Grays Anatomy have unparalleled views of every anatomical detail of the human body.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Outlook In March, Ian Smith will succeed me as 9 In the short term, 2009 is clearly going Chief Executive Officer.
Ian joined us at the Reed Elsevier to be a more difficult year with most of the beginning of the year and has spent most Annual Reports and Financial Statements worlds largest economies currently in of his time with our businesses and meeting 2008 recession.
The key professional markets customers.
He will make a meaningful served by Elsevier and LexisNexis which impact in the development and success Chief account for about 80% of Reed Elseviers of Reed Elsevier and I wish him well for adjusted operating profits, while not the future.
Executive immune to the impact of the economic Officers It has been a privilege to lead Reed Elsevier downturn, are more resilient than report for the last nine and a half years.
It is a most and these businesses benefit from great business, what we do is important to a strong subscription base and the growing continued the communities we serve and to society, demand for online solutions.
In our and our people are remarkably committed business-to-business markets accounting and talented.
They do an outstanding job, for about 20% of Reed Elseviers adjusted caring greatly about what they do and the operating profits the demand for advertising customers we serve, and I want to take this and marketing services has been much opportunity to thank them all.
more affected by the tougher economic environment.
We therefore expect to show a profit decline this year in these businesses, including the effect on our Exhibitions business of the net cycling out of biennial shows.
Overall, with the cost actions we are taking, Sir Crispin Davis while continuing to invest in new and Chief Executive Officer upgraded products, Reed Elsevier should see positive adjusted earnings per share growth at constant currencies in 2009.
In the longer term, I believe Reed Elsevier is well placed to develop and grow strongly.
We have leadership positions in large, global growth markets, strong and well established brand franchises, are seeing increasing success from the focus on online products, and financially Reed Elsevier is in a strong position.
These are fundamental strengths that, together with the actions we are taking outlined above, will stand Reed Elsevier in good stead for the future.
Full reports online The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 are now available to view online.
