Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives review Focused on our priorities Our strategy remains one of sustainable and measured development These results, achieved under difficult circumstances, especially during the final quarter of the year, reect the continued successful application of our business model of sustainable, measured growth on a global basis.
We continue to demonstrate our ongoing ability to return shareholder value with an 80% increase in our dividend alongside 19.9 million of share repurchases made during 2008.
I am also pleased to end the year with a balance sheet reecting a record level of cash, after Mark Dixon repayment of our outstanding debt, which will enable us to further invest for the future in our people, products and technology.
Overview Through the ongoing implementation of our Amidst a backdrop of deteriorating economic core strategy of controlled, disciplined growth conditions, I am delighted to announce a via both organic expansion in existing and fifth successive year of record results, with new markets and acquisitions the Group a 25% growth in revenues, a 20% growth has delivered substantial workstation growth in profitability and a doubling of our net cash in all regions during 2008.
Average workstations balance at 31 December 2008. grew 20,322 or 15.3% to 153,260 during 2008.
The total number of available workstations at 31 December 2008 was 159,121.
If nonconsolidated workstations are also taken into account, the total number of workstations under management increases to 171,277.
The unique nature of our business will ensure We have seen the number of centres we operate that we continue to drive sustainable growth: increase by 60 net of closures.
New locations include Karachi in Pakistan, Sharjah in the U.
A. E. St Petersburg in Russia, Fukuoka in Strategy Japan and we opened our first centres in Malta, Monaco and Taiwan.
Our consistent long-term strategy is that of 1 measured, sustainable growth to maximise benefits Strategy and objectives for our stakeholders.
In 2008, we have continued to adhere rmly to our strategy to continue to grow profit and cash generation through measured, sustainable Business model capacity growth.
A scalable business model with considerable potential 2 Whilst we are acutely aware of the potential for further development.
impact of the current downturn, and the unpredictability of its severity and duration, the core fundamentals of our strategy and current business model remain unaffected.
Future prospects We will continue to seek to take the business 3 We believe that we are in a good position to capitalise forward through disciplined growth, focused on our flexible product offering which makes us an ideal investment for the long term, and through keeping as nimble as possible in respect choice for many companies in times of uncertainty.
6 6 w ww ww w.. r re eg gu us s.. c co om m Chief Executives review of cost control and operational exibility.
With number of mobile workers worldwide will reach a steady adherence to our fundamentals, we one billion by 2011, we feel that we are the only believe we are as well positioned as we could company delivering the right product in the right be to face the forthcoming challenges of 2009. place at the right time to help them compete in the current economic climate.
The delivery of our strategy will continue to come about through focus on our priorities: We remain focused on highlighting the significant cost savings our clients can secure through our Brand and product development product offerings.
Systems and technology People and processes Systems and technology The roll-out of our internally developed, Brand and product development inventory, reservation and billing system across Our brand and market presence is strong, our worldwide network has now been completed, enabling us to respond to a wide variety of with all of our centres utilising this technology customer needs through a centre footprint in their day to day operations 2007: 495 centres.
which allows us to be local, regional or global.
We are already seeing tangible benets in terms In short, we have the adaptability and agility to of control of our business notably in discount be many things to many customers.
However, and exception management and in driving new we recognise the need to continue to respond sales opportunities.
to our customers needs and leverage further the core quality and exibility of our products Looking ahead, we anticipate this system which differentiate us from our competitors.
being a key enabler in our newly established Regional Service Centres, and the system is The launch of our Businessworld programme being onward developed to ensure full integration in early 2008 has been a significant success, into operational improvements being made in our with membership expanding rapidly throughout centres i. e. integration to photocopiers, telephone the year and now encompassing 200,000 card billing systems, franking, etc.
Wherever possible, holders who have signed up for one of four unique Businessworld membership packages.
we are also seeking to integrate third-party With external market research predicting that the vendors into this infrastructure.
A leading strategy for growth Our priorities for 2009 Operational efficiency We will continue to take early action on our 1 Developing cost structure to manage our cost base in line our team with future trading expectations.
members Expanding our network Innovative recession busting products Our product solutions for our customers are immediate, easily implemented and generally Developing require no capital expenditure all critical Generating our brand recession busting considerations which will Innovative profitable enable them to obtain signicantly more value for products growth and services money and exibility than a conventional lease.
Investments in systems and technology Operational Utilising our internally developed, inventory, excellence Investments reservation and billing system now rolled in systems out across our entire worldwide network will and technology ensure we continue to capture and bill for all revenue generating opportunities.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Directors Report Business Review We have also made improvements during Change of residence and appointment the year to our data capture and management of three new non-executive directors systems, which will form a stronger platform In successfully implementing our strategy of from which to develop better, more timely diversication, both geographically and in our reporting.
Some early-adopting centres are product offerings, we have developed a more already receiving daily activity and planning balanced global revenue platform.
reports to allow them to focus on daily The creation of a new corporate structure and customer-focused priorities and enable quality organisation for Regus, incorporated in Jersey planning for the next one to two weeks ahead.
and resident in Luxembourg, has therefore given us a chance to further internationalise our People and processes business in keeping with our ongoing strategy.
The strong results in 2008 have been driven Coupled with this, the appointment of three new largely by our 5,442 team members, and I would international non-executive directors further like to take this opportunity to thank all of them enhances our global perspective.
throughout the Group for their substantial efforts in the year.
Our results are a testament to their Responding to market conditions hard work, diligence and commitment.
Whilst we have delivered a strong set of 2008 As we develop our business and invest for results, we anticipate that market conditions the future, we recognise the importance of will be challenging during 2009.
However, we enhancing skill sets through training and have the potential to outperform our competition development programmes.
Ultimately, the by maximising revenue and cash growth whilst quality of our team members and their ability keeping a tight control on costs, and maintaining to deliver high quality customer service remain focus on our core strategy.
fundamental to the continued long-term delivery With respect to our cost structure, we will of our business model.
continue to take early action to manage our We will continue to rely heavily on our people cost base in line with future trading expectations.
and their enthusiasm, talent and focus to further Our costs throughout 2008 have continued to develop the success of our business, regardless become less xed in nature as we increase the of external economic factors.
number of exible leases in our portfolio and Business model A globally diversied business Regus value proposition Mobile and home working leader For the customer 2 Virtual office, video-conferencing Cheaper opex and meeting rooms Zero capex Business lounges, membership Flexible cards and day offices Immediate, no fuss Reliable, outsourced solution National, regional, global Business centre leader 978 centres in 74 countries For the landlord 159,121 workstations Allows small customers Market rent or better Incubator Amenity Corporate outsourcing Regus brand Training room Immediate and easy Managed offices 8 www.
com Chief Executives review reduce our exposure to longer, conventional sheet and cash generation ensure that we are leases.
In addition, throughout 2008 we have well positioned to take advantage of appropriate continued to implement a number of cost saving opportunities to increase shareholder value as programmes throughout our organisation, which they arise.
we anticipate will continue to ensure we are able We recognize that we will have to continue to to act with maximum speed and efficiency.
challenge ourselves to become more efficient As part of this process, we have accelerated and drive down costs, whilst at the same time plans to consolidate certain central and regional not losing sight of the need for continued longadministrative functions into a number of newly term investment in growing our business.
With established Regional Service Centres.
We expect a strong global brand driven by the stewardship of our customer-focused teams, a broad and that these will be fully operational in the next exible product range, and a business model financial year, with a focus on reducing overall we have continued to adhere rmly to and costs and ensuring better integrated finance, deliver upon, I am confident of our position to information technology and other support meet the challenging market conditions ahead.
Outlook We are not at all complacent about the outlook.
Mark Dixon Chief Executive officer In the last two months of 2008, the increasing pressure that we were seeing on our revenues translated into a softening in our occupancy and price KPIs which has continued into 2009.
However, although many of the countries in which we operate are experiencing increasingly difficult economic conditions, we believe that we are taking the necessary actions and expect to strengthen our current market leading position.
Our global footprint, strong balance Future prospects United Kingdom EMEA 3 Continued early adopter of new Consolidation of processes into sales and product concepts a regional service centre to improve efficiency of collections, reporting Heightened focus on efficiency and cost and compliance Migration of all centres onto centralised Identification of low risk opportunities billing and credit control for expansion Americas Asia Pacic Expansion into new markets in New centralised customer Latin America service centre to handle customer administration Maximising yield in existing centres Consolidate and develop our Exploiting new marketing partnerships position as the largest provider of serviced offices in the region nd out more at: regus.
com Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
