Chief executives message low cost, long life assets that enable us to of the Kitimat aluminium smelter in Canada.
build value throughout the cycle.
No less Instead, we plan to spend a further US$300 important to the Groups success is the million to continue the initial stages of the quality of our people, who have project: this is in addition to US$200 million demonstrated great skill, flexibility and drive committed last July.
in meeting the exceptional challenges which Rio Tinto Alcan has announced an confronted us in 2008.
11 per cent cutback in aluminium During the year, we continued to invest production, equivalent to 450,000 tonnes of in new production capacity, while remetal per year.
This is being accompanied by examining the timing of big capital projects a decrease in alumina production of close to to ensure that planned production levels are six per cent.
carefully aligned with projections of The fundamentals of the aluminium demand.
Higher Looking to our future, the transaction energy costs are raising the aluminium cost we announced with Chinalco in February curve, particularly in China, to the 2009 makes great financial and strategic advantage of lower cost producers like sense.
It is intended to position Rio Tinto to Rio Tinto Alcan.
I am therefore confident lead the resources industry into the next that our aluminium operations will continue decade and beyond by ensuring the to play a vital role in helping Rio Tinto meet continuity of our strategy with the added its commitment to creating value.
benefit of Chinalcos valuable relationships, Our iron ore operations are performing resources and capabilities.
well and we expect robust demand in the medium to long term.
In the short term, An extraordinary year How we manage for value however, a drop in demand has led to a ten 2008 was a year of stark contrasts.
Our We are a low cost producer of the key per cent reduction in our iron ore shipments business performed exceptionally well in the commodities that support the and to a scaling back of our immediate first nine months before being hit hard by a industrialisation of developing countries like production forecasts.
Iron Ore Company of steep decline in commodity markets in the China.
In 2007 the most recent year for Canada is cutting production in 2009 and fourth quarter.
But despite the biggest global which full comparative industry data is expenditure at the Simandou iron ore financial crisis in generations, the quality of available, 93 per cent of our iron ore project in Guinea is being reduced.
our business shone through and we production, 95 per cent of our copper and Our review of short term capital succeeded in maintaining strong cash flow 87 per cent of our aluminium production spending has also led us to slow exploration and earnings.
were positioned in the lower half of the and evaluation at the La Granja copper This encouraging financial performance cost curve.
was unfortunately overshadowed by a very In the current market conditions we are Meanwhile, in Australia, the Argyle damaging year on the safety front.
There implementing a comprehensive package of diamond underground project, Northparkes were 18 fatalities in the businesses managed tough but necessary measures which take Mines copper, Kestrel coal and HIsmelt by Rio Tinto, including ten people killed in a into account the short term impact on the have all trimmed back their expansion helicopter crash in Peru.
Twelve of the 18 demand for our products.
These initiatives activities or temporarily ceased further deaths occurred at new projects in are aimed at preserving value for investment.
developing countries and 14 of the 18 were shareholders by conserving cash flow and But the story is not only one of capital employees of contractors.
We are A major review of contractor There will be 14,000 staff reductions taking advantage of this period to look for management is now under way and in 2009 globally made up of 8,500 contractors and further opportunities to add value to projects there will be renewed emphasis on the 5,500 employees.
Controllable operating by redirecting our project design focus, implementation of Group standards and costs are to be cut by at least US$2.5 billion looking at the best, rather than the fastest, systems for safety and on the expectations per annum by 2010 and net debt will be solutions.
Creating this breathing space and training for leaders.
We have also reduced by US$10 billion by the end of gives us the time for further study to reduce redoubled our work on preventing low 2009.
We intend to cut our capital capital costs, minimise our environmental probability, high consequence incidents.
On expenditure to about US$4 billion in 2009, impact, enhance our social contribution and a more positive safety note, 2008 saw a from US$8.5 billion in 2008, which will of shorten development timetables.
welcome reduction in the frequency of lost course affect many projects.
In addition, time injuries and also of the rate of all more assets will be divested than those A stable financial position injuries.
The way we manage for value means our Market conditions in the fourth quarter All projects and near term capital financial position remains stable.
In 2008 of 2008 combined to send the spot prices of expenditure will be continuously reassessed we reduced our net debt by US$6.5 billion.
many commodities down to levels last seen in light of demand from China, the Our next major repayment will become due in 2006.
The unprecedented downturn and prevailing outlook for commodity prices and in October 2009 and we have available to us continuing near term uncertainty reflect a the falling costs of construction.
In short, unused credit facilities of US$8.1 billion, more negative global macroeconomic our aim is to make sure our businesses whilst our interest costs are at a very setting.
remain robust during a period of relatively competitive rate of around 3.5 per cent.
We have always said we are in a cyclical low prices.
In early 2009, we sold, for very good industry and our strategy is geared to this We have, for example, deferred a final prices, our Corumb iron ore mine in Brazil fact.
Rio Tinto is a resilient business, with decision on the US$2.5 billion modernisation and two potash development projects in 12 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Overview Argentina and Canada.
and our growth rate is not dependent on any reason to be fairly optimistic about the All the previously announced divestment one project.
More than 80 per cent of our medium and longer term.
I am confident we processes are under way and our primary growth plans are derived from brownfield have the right strategy for these difficult objective continues to be obtaining developments in established business times.
Indeed it is a strategy that will serve appropriate value, in spite of some delays in environments.
Generally, 85 per cent of our us well whatever the future may bring.
the timing of the divestments.
earnings come from businesses located in Having travelled widely round the Group OECD countries.
in 2008, I have seen for myself the skills, Market conditions In Madagascar, construction of the US$1 energy and unwavering commitment of our The recent turbulence in the worlds billion QMM mineral sands operation was workforce.
I very much regret the necessity financial markets and the dramatic drop in substantially completed on time in 2008.
It of having to make many of these valuable the demand for our products have resulted represents the largest foreign investment in people redundant and to cut back on our in a massive, synchronised global slowdown.
the country and forms part of a regional project development work.
Chinas growth trajectory dipped much development plan supported by the World Those employees who remain will make more than expected in the fourth quarter of Bank.
The first production of ilmenite from us a stronger company, a company that is 2008.
This may lead to a pick up in 2009 in the plant is due to be shipped to Canada in able to shift more rapidly back to a higher the cumulative demand for most of the March for processing into titanium dioxide gear when the upturn comes.
It is they who metals and minerals we produce.
This high quality resource in make us strong and competitive, adding we hope to see some recovery in Chinas Madagascar is expected to be in production value for shareholders every day.
I thank all gross domestic product in the second half of for 40 years.
of them for their outstanding contribution as this year.
We are confident we can manage the we press on into another eventful year.
In the West, anxiety in financial markets risks associated with investments such as has meant falling asset values, volatile these.
We are experienced operators in exchange rates and depressed commodity frontier regions, with a good reputation in prices.
The net result has been a substantial sustainable development and community downturn in OECD economies.
Meanwhile, in China, monetary policy to In the midst of the current difficulties, dampen inflation is being loosened in order we are keeping our eyes on the longer term Tom Albanese Chief executive to maintain a growth rate that remains the prize.
Our Mine of the Future technology envy of the world.
The China urbanisation and innovation project in Western Australia story and its beneficial effect on future remains a top priority whatever the market metal markets still holds true, despite the conditions.
It is one of the worlds biggest recent economic turmoil.
Fifteen years ago, private sector trials of robotics and it will only 25 per cent of the Chinese population transform the efficiency and safety of the was living in cities.
Today, urban dwellers way we mine.
account for about 40 per cent of the total It consists of a fleet of mining and that proportion is expected to reach equipment that loads and hauls ore 60 per cent by 2025.
In other words, there automatically.
An important step towards will be hundreds of millions of people who reality was taken in 2008 with the activation will require new homes, schools, factories, for testing of the first Autonomous Haulage offices, roads and other infrastructure.
System at the West Angelas mine in the Take aluminium, for example.
today, consumption of the metal is about We have promising exploration nine kilograms per capita.
In Taiwan and prospects in nickel, bauxite, diamonds, South Korea it is about 20 kilograms.
So if ilmenite and lithium borates, plus potential China were simply to attain a similar level expansion of iron ore resources in the of consumption, it would consume an Pilbara and at Simandou in Guinea.
additional 13-15 million tonnes of At the heart of our long term value story aluminium a year the equivalent of 38 per is the strength of our project pipeline and cent of todays total world demand.
our commitment to improving mining Mining is a long term industry and we technology.
Our portfolio of projects allows still expect global demand for Rio Tintos key us to target strong production growth over products including seaborne iron ore, the long term with the flexibility to copper and aluminium to double in the decelerate as we have done when there is next 15 to 20 years.
That growth will be a pause in demand.
sustained in large part by China, along with India and other emerging markets.
A new reality So, the long term outlook for Rio Tinto We will have a difficult global economy for remains positive.
In the meantime, the perhaps the next two years, during which we Group has positioned itself to deal with the will have to navigate with cost cutting and economic slowdown and to take advantage debt reduction.
All of our actions over the of the rebound when it happens.
past few months are focused on communicating this reality.
Looking to future growth That said, looking beyond the current Rio Tinto has a broad portfolio of projects global financial crisis, there remains good Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 13
