CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A PETER FRANCE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, TALKS ABOUT STRATEGY AND GROWTH ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A THE OIL PRICE HAS BEEN VOLATILE DURING THE YEAR: WHY HAS THIS NOT AFFECTED ROTORK?
Approximately 50% of our revenue is related to the oil & gas market.
Historically this business was concentrated in the downstream sector and particularly in rening and storage.
Over recent years we have been expanding our product range across our divisions.
New markets have also been developed such as LNG and this has led to a lot of different opportunities presenting themselves to us.
Add to this the growth in emerging markets and their desire to be self reliant with regard to oil & gas production, and the need for local storage, and you can see increased opportunities presenting themselves to us.
Oil companies are continually looking to replenish their depleting reserves and the search for new oil & gas elds will continue.
A long-term view is often taken as to the viability of a eld and the current oil price is not always a good indicator of the decision making process.
THERE IS A LOT OF TALK OF CAPITAL PROJECTS BEING REDUCED: HOW WILL THIS IMPACT ROTORK?
Whilst there may be a reduction in the amount spent on capital projects, what is clear is that spending will not stop completely.
Infrastructure projects will continue to be supported by governments eager to stimulate the economy.
Oil companies will continue to look for the next big eld!
Environmental pressures are still around and production efficiencies sought, so in many areas the volume of spend may not reduce but the particular budget that the spend is allocated to may change.
I believe that Rotork is well placed to support our customers on new build projects and on improving their existing facilities.
IS ROTORKS HISTORIC GROWTH RATE SUSTAINABLE?
Rotork has been involved historically in projects that are classied as infrastructure projects.
Power stations or water treatment plants are all big users of actuators.
These markets are driven by economic and demographic growth and by the need to replace ageing plant.
The world population is still growing and many parts of the developing world as well as the developed world need access to consistent power.
The world still needs to nd new sources of oil & gas and once found it needs to be treated and transported from the source to the user.
These fundamentals, along with the opportunities that we see to develop new products and enter new markets with our dedicated and committed worldwide employees, provide me with the confidence that we can continue to grow in the long-term.
INPUT COST PRESSURES ARE RISING, WILL MARGINS FALL?
Rotork has an outsourcing production model with most of our manufacturing plants acting as assembly plants of highly nished components sourced from suppliers internationally.
This exible approach allows us to source from the most suitable suppliers anywhere in the world.
Whilst we have seen some raw material cost rises in the year and the weakness of the pound affecting the cost of components in some areas, we have been able to mitigate some of the increases by value engineering and sourcing exercises.
IS IT TRUE THAT ROTORK IS A LATE CYCLE BUSINESS?
It really depends what you mean by late cycle.
We supply product on many different applications and in many different industries and the time from enquiry to delivery can vary considerably.
On some of the larger infrastructure projects we are often involved at a very early stage in the design concept of a plant even before contractors have been asked to bid.
The larger infrastructure schemes often have a number of phases with projects within projects and we can supply product for these over a number of years.
If you think of an FPSO for instance oating processing and storage vessel, the hull is often built in one location requiring actuators for ballast control, with the topside processes often added at a later stage in another yard, possibly in another country.
WHAT WOULD YOU SAY DIFFERENTIATES ROTORK FROM OTHER COMPANIES?
I am sure that there are a lot of companies with some of the same attributes that we have in Rotork, but I think Rotork is special for a number of reasons.
From the start Rotork has had a number of pillars to support its growth, innovation, global presence service, quality of product and people, and exible production techniques.
In recent times we have added a diverse product offering.
In our recent global employee satisfaction survey it was clear that our employees have an immense amount of pride in working for Rotork and I believe this translates into superior customer service.
