Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executives review Success requires a broad, global spread of businesses, a full portfolio of brands, outstanding operational capability and talented people.
As a result of consistently sticking to its strategic priorities, SABMiller has all these requisites in place.
Owning the growth After several brand launches and This year has seen another strong renovations in the prior year, Latin America performance with results continuing the delivered lager volume growth of 5%.
trend of several very strong years.
Adjusted Strong revenue and cost management earnings per share grew by 19%, bringing as well as favourable currency impacts, the compound annual growth rate over the drove solid profit growth with EBITA up last six years to some 20% per annum.
We expect further growth as we 143.1 US cents, our adjusted earnings per continue to make the beer category more share have very nearly trebled since 2002. appealing through clearer segmentation of the market, improved brand portfolios Review of operations and more effective and efficient selling While each of our markets has its own and distribution.
unique drivers of profit growth, there are common themes that have characterised In North America, Miller Brewing our success this year.
Our focus on building Company has returned to growth after leading, local, mainstream and premium the previous years setbacks.
EBITA was brands and managing full brand portfolios up by 27%, driven by a 4% increase in Graham Mackay, Chief Executive in each market has been successful in sales to retailers along with higher pricing, driving up revenues and profits and brand mix improvements, cost savings and expanding our organic market share.
Millers worthmore What weve demonstrated is that stronger portfolio overall grew by nearly 50% with brands can deliver better value to our the newly launched Miller Chill selling consumers and sustain firmer pricing.
some 500,000 barrels during the year.
As a consequence, revenues have grown The underlying momentum of the business strongly across the business and have will help considerably as we prepare for more than offset higher input costs.
the proposed joint venture with Coors.
We hope to close the transaction in We have also improved our brand mix, mid-2008.
selling more higher-value brands in packs that generate higher margins.
Given the Robust economic conditions in Africa trend towards premium beers, we contributed to a 6% growth in organic continue to work hard to enhance our lager volumes from the groups operations offering in this segment.
Were also on the continent excluding Zimbabwe.
starting to see a meaningful contribution Beer sales in our key markets of Tanzania from brand innovations.
and Mozambique continue to expand rapidly, despite tough comparisons with Consumer demand remained strong the previous year.
Growth in Botswana during the year, particularly in our has also been excellent, following the developing markets.
As a result, weve renovation of the St Louis brand and continued to make significant investments the launch of returnable glass bottles.
some US$2.0 billion in total in additional Our partners in Africa, Castel, have also production capacity, the provision of fridges delivered a laudable performance in and the introduction of new bottles to their markets.
ensure were positioned to take advantage of the growth in our markets.
Weve also In Asia, the groups associate in China, invested heavily in product and packaging CR Snow, has extended its lead, acquiring innovations.
a further four breweries in the year and growing volumes by 15% on an organic Europe continued its very successful basis to bring its market share to 18%.
run with marketing and brand investments Recent industry-wide price increases will producing gains in market share in our help to cover rising input costs in the short six largest markets and pushing organic term and, more importantly, bode well for lager volumes up by 8%.
Almost a third of future profitability.
In India, despite over volumes came from local product and pack burdening regulation, we achieved organic innovations undertaken in the last three volume growth of 19%.
The region has also seen robust business in Australia continues to grow price growth with EBITA rising 30% as we strongly, albeit from a small base.
capitalise on the strength of our brands.
Chief Executives review 7 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Chief Executives review continued Our priority, increasingly, is to identify the most valuable segments of the markets we already serve and to make sure we capture a higher value share of these than our competitors.
We call this process owning the growth.
Our strategic priorities SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, at the centre of which are the four priorities set out below and discussed in more detail on the following pages.
Management use a range of indicators to monitor progress against these four priorities.
Some of the most important measures used are identified in the accompanying table and are expanded upon in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 18 to 23.
Creating a balanced and Our geographical spread of operations enables us to capture growth in total volumes in the developing markets, attractive global spread 7% 10% and value growth as consumers around the world trade of businesses organic growth in group revenue growth upwards from economy to mainstream and from page 10 lager volumes organic constant mainstream to premium brands.
currency Developing strong, Our aim is to develop an attractive brand portfolio that meets consumers needs in each of our markets.
In many relevant brand portfolios 0.5m 11% markets, because the growth is fastest at the top end, in the local market barrels of Miller Chill growth in premium weve been focusing on our international premium brands, page 12 sold in year one volume in Europe such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro and regional brands such as Kozel in Europe.
Constantly raising Good operational performance has always been an SABMiller strength.
While operational standards are the performance of 9% 17.4% already high we are continually pushing them higher as local businesses evidenced by growing EBITA and stable or rising margins.
EBITA growth organic consistent group page 14 constant currency EBITA margin Leveraging our We are leveraging our global scale to grow the business.
Our business platform enables us, for example, to distribute global scale 18% 72% our international premium brands and build our regional page 16 revenue CAGR for international growth brands.
In addition we are using our scale to transfer skills, the last three years of Peroni Nastro methods and our operational performance and efficiency.
Azzurro volumes Principal risks The continued development of our marketing In many countries, regulatory constraints The principal risks facing the group, which and growth of our brand portfolios positions and restrictions on alcohol products, including have been considered by the board, are us well to benefit from changing consumer sales and marketing activities, continue to detailed below.
The groups well developed preferences in both developed and developing be under the spotlight, and management risk management process is detailed in markets.
However, markets continue to evolve interacts with the relevant authorities wherever the Corporate Governance section and and competitor activity is increasing and appropriate.
An increase in such impositions our financial risks are discussed in note 22 should the group fail to ensure the relevance or in excise duties can have an adverse impact to the consolidated financial statements.
and attractiveness of its brands, and the on our business in those countries where enhancement of brand marketing, there is such actions may take place.
Details of the The global brewing industry is expected to the risk that significant growth opportunities groups activities regarding responsible alcohol continue to consolidate.
Should the group may not be realised.
The groups approach consumption can be found in the sustainable not participate in attractive value-adding and progress this year in terms of developing development review on pages 30 to 33. transactions, this may inhibit its ability to strong, relevant brand portfolios in local leverage additional scale benefits.
While The supply of some brewing raw materials markets is set out on pages 12 and 13. participation in global consolidation provides and packaging materials has been constrained opportunities to access scale benefits, enter The group now operates on six continents during the past two years, leading to supply growth markets and achieve benefits from the and it is essential to develop and retain a shortages and cost increases.
Should the groups best operating practices, there is the global management capability.
Failure to group fail to ensure an adequate supply of risk that expected benefits may not be captured maintain this capability at a high level or brewing and packaging raw materials at or may be inadequate, such that an appropriate maintain our effective organisational leadership competitive prices, there is the risk that return on capital is not achieved over time.
process which can capture shared learnings margins could fall.
Mitigating factors for the The group has continued to make significant and leverage global synergies and expertise, risk of supply constraints and rising cost progress during the period with regard to could jeopardise our growth potential.
The of raw materials are covered on page 14. creating a balanced and attractive global spread groups approach to leveraging its global of businesses, as set out on pages 10 and 11. scale is detailed on pages 16 and 17.
8 Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In South Africa, where SAB Ltd began the global operators.
However, we have Shorter term, with input costs remaining the year with the loss of a major premium well established positions and a long high, it is critical to be able to secure the brand to a competitor, overall volumes track record of success in these types raw materials we need at the lowest costs.
remained level while mainstream volumes of markets.
This key priority is discussed further on grew satisfactorily by mid-single digits.
As time moves on, the opportunities The decline in premium volumes was to expand into new territories through Finally, were looking to grow by leveraging partially mitigated by the successful mergers and acquisitions are becoming our global scale.
While allowing each launch of Hansa Marzen Gold and fewer.
This means that while growth business a high degree of autonomy and growth in excess of 100% for Peroni through territorial expansion remains accountability, were setting up structures Nastro Azzurro.
Soft drinks grew 4% important, our priority, increasingly, is and networks to foster collaboration, to despite tough comparatives in the final to identify the most valuable segments ensure standard ways of doing things quarter.
EBITA declined by 7%, reflecting a of the markets we already serve and to where this is helpful and to capture the weaker currency, rising costs in distribution make sure we capture a higher value best ideas and practices and disperse and brewing raw materials and investment share of these than our competitors.
them quickly through the group.
The in our marketing and sales activities.
objective is to create a collaborative, Exploiting our strengths in learning organisation in which the whole Owning the growth has to begin with a challenging marketplace becomes greater than the sum of the parts a thorough analysis of consumer trends As the Chairman has indicated, and is better able to seize the opportunities and marketplace dynamics.
Before we economies in general and the brewing for growth.
can identify the opportunities, we need sector in particular face tough new to understand the evolving tastes and We recognise that our people are critical challenges.
Against the background of preferences of different groups of to our success.
We have a strong culture a global economic slowdown and rising consumers.
Trends such as premiumisation, of accountability and empowerment with food price inflation, the current growth in fragmentation and the increasing importance clearly defined performance goals and we commodity prices means sharp increases of female consumers will influence the way support our employees with world-class in the cost of our brewing and packaging we approach any given market.
Then we training and development.
At the same time, the have to offer the right brands to the right are included on page 31. brewing industry continues to consolidate, target audiences in order to capture the intensifying the competition within each Addressing risks growth where we think it exists.
The retail environment is also Like any organisation, we face a variety getting tougher as stores and supermarkets Here we benefit from a second of our of risks.
Recognising that risk is a fact of claim more of the market from bars strengths the ability to develop strong, business, presenting opportunity as well and restaurants where brewers margins relevant brand portfolios for each local as threat, we aim to manage it in a way are higher.
Unlike some of our competitors, that generates the best return for our weve never concentrated on just one shareholders.
The well developed riskMeanwhile, as the global beer market or two monolithic brands.
Instead, weve management process described on pages review on page 6 explains, consumers developed a spectrum of strong brands 39 and 40 helps us to identify and monitor are seeking more choice and variety in from economy to premium, local to the principal risks to the business and deal their repertoire of drinks a further trend international and traditional to experimental.
The principal risks to be factored into our strategy.
This is now turning out to be an advantage we face are set out opposite while financial Succeeding in this challenging as we now have a locker-full of brands with risks are discussed on page 97. environment requires a broad, global which to address almost any segment of In summary spread of businesses, a full portfolio of any market where we see an opportunity.
With the market positions we now occupy brands, outstanding operational capability The aim is to develop and deploy these and the strategies weve consistently and talented people.
As a result of brands for maximum competitive deployed, we believe that were well placed sticking to the groups strategic priorities, advantage in each local market.
to capture the growth opportunities in discussed on pages 10 to 17, I believe A third strength of our business is its each market, to reinforce our competitive SABMiller is unique among the global operational capability.
Our strategy here is advantages and to keep generating value brewing companies in having all these to keep improving our day-to-day execution for our shareholders.
by consistently and relentlessly raising the Our business portfolio, for example, performance of each local business.
In our gives us wide geographic coverage and manufacturing, our routes-to-market, our Graham Mackay advantageous exposure to emerging sales processes and every other aspect of Chief Executive markets with above-average economic our operations, we believe that long-term growth.
Other brewers have followed success comes down in the end to superior our lead into emerging markets and, as a local execution, recognising that each of our result, competition is increasing between local markets has is own unique features.
Chief Executives review 9 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
