Strategic priority three Constantly raising the performance of local businesses While our operating performance compares well with Dealing with rising input costs that of the rest of the industry, we know we have to keep improving to stay ahead.
Our efforts in the past year The past two years have seen an unprecedented rise in have focused on three main aspects of the business.
the price of inputs, namely barley and hops for brewing and glass and aluminium for packaging.
As one of the The first is to become more efficient, especially in our manufacturing.
largest global buyers of these items, we have procurement Because efficiency is part of our day-to-day management, weve strategies for managing our risks and mitigating the impact.
already gone a long way down this route and the opportunity for further, large, cost-cutting projects is limited.
Nevertheless, the Thanks to our scale, we can procure more efficiently by rise in commodity costs compels us to do whatever we can to coordinating our buying effort globally but sourcing locally counteract the squeeze on our margins.
Weve seen good according to where particular expertise lies.
Europe, for progress across the group, notably from Miller which again made example, buys a significant amount of malt for the group important savings in its brewing operations while producing less while aluminium is purchased in the USA where the bulk of waste and using fewer resources.
This approach has helped to limit the increases in our commodity costs compared to prices The second area of focus and one thats hugely important to on the open market.
our success is to improve our routes to market, both to remove costs and to ensure that the right products reach the right outlets In addition, we have specific risk-management policies to in the right condition, accompanied by the right messages and limit our exposure to commodity market volatility.
Colombia and South Africa are just two hedging strategies to supplement long-term contracts with of several businesses that are working hard to re-engineer their suppliers in order to ensure supplies at target prices.
In the sales and distribution structures to make them more efficient and past year weve been able to limit the increase in the cost of effective.
In markets such as the USA, where the business does goods per hectolitre of beer produced in constant currency not directly control its distribution, were making it easier for to mid-single digits a successful result.
distributors and customers to do business with SABMiller and are looking for ways to add value to their operations as well as ours.
Thirdly, in our quest to raise local performance, were responding to the consolidation of the retail sector by forming mutually beneficial partnerships with major retailers.
Our Polish business, for example, has forged a closer relationship with Tesco while Miller has done the same with chains such as Wal-Mart and 7-Eleven.
The case studies on these two pages describe in more detail some of the many ways in which SABMiller businesses around the world are improving their operating performance.
Introducing 430 million new returnable bottles in South Africa Mainstream brands in South Africa have normally been sold in returnable quart bottles.
Although standardisation made the product more affordable, it was hard to add distinctive labelling and the bottles themselves gradually became outdated.
The business therefore made a decision in 2007 to invest around US$70 million to replace its entire quart bottle stock in a phased project lasting 18 months.
As well as using less glass, the new bottle shape has improved the image of the mainstream category and lends itself to new labelling technology which in turn makes for stronger brand differentiation.
Running from April 2007, the project is a massive logistical task involving the introduction of 430 million new bottles.
The phased roll-out limits the companys flexibility to move stock around the country and infrastructure challenges have created further complications.
Shortages of glass, for example, have required new sourcing from as far away as the Middle East.
Despite the difficult logistics, the results are coming through as evidenced by a return to growth in the mainstream segment.
old new 14 Strategic priority three SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Overview Operating and financial r Operating and financial review eview Gover Governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shar Shareholder information eholder information Developing relationships with large retailers In some markets, consumers are relationships with Tesco and E. Leclerc nationwide leader in hypermarkets and increasingly buying their beer from that involve developing joint plans for supermarkets.
Shoppers increasingly supermarkets and other retailers rather store layouts and sales and promotions.
perceive SABMiller brands as segment than ordering it in bars and restaurants.
The Polish team has drawn on leaders and both SABMiller and Tesco This presents a challenge to brewers in SABMillers knowledge of consumers are benefiting from a rise in sales.
that margins on retail sales tend to be and its skills in marketing to design Miller in the USA has made tighter.
The difficulty is compounded new ways of displaying and promoting similar progress in understanding as the retail sector consolidates and its products in-store.
These are now the objectives and strategies of the drives margins still lower.
in place in three Polish hypermarkets big national retail chains and is two Tescos and one E. Leclerc.
Against this background, its important working with them to add value to to learn how to work with retailers Thanks to this new relationship, the relationship.
As a result, its sales and ensure we become the preferred Tesco Poland has made SABMillers with the big four Wal-Mart, 7-Eleven, supplier wherever possible.
To this Polish subsidiary its principal beer Kroger and Supervalu are growing end, our Polish business has forged supplier and the business is now the faster than its sales overall.
Miller: Lower costs and a smaller carbon footprint In 2007, Miller embarked on Project Unicorn with the aim of continuously improving its operations and making further savings in packaging, freight, waste, utilities and maintenance.
The programme incorporates the principles of World Class Manufacturing whereby employees are empowered to search for solutions that cut the number of stoppages on the production line.
The resulting improvements have taken Millers overall equipment effectiveness to an all-time high of 74.9%.
Expanding production in Colombia Reducing the diameter of Millers After the transaction with Bavaria, SABMiller decided that production standards in all its can ends has cut the companys use Latin American breweries should be lifted to the same stringent levels as in the rest of of aluminium by over 560 tonnes per the group, to ensure that consumers enjoyed the highest quality of beer.
As this included year the equivalent of all the aluminium fermenting the beer for longer, the move put further pressure on capacity at a time when in 2.2 million cases of beer.
A new the local business was struggling to meet rapidly growing demand.
anaerobic wastewater treatment plant at one of Millers plants now generates In response, SABMiller has built a new brewery in extremely quick time on a site enough biogas to produce a megawatt already earmarked by Bavaria for a future plant.
The Valle facility in Colombia is based of electricity for the brewery each hour on Bavarias original plans with modifications to take account of SABMillers worldwide again saving energy and costs and experience and the need to meet the highest efficiency and environmental standards.
reducing the companys carbon footprint.
Operating since March 2008 and now the most advanced brewery in Colombia, the plant is capable of producing 180,000 bottles of beer an hour.
Seventeen months on from its launch, Project Unicorn is on track to achieve The US$220 million Valle project is just one example of the heavy investment going its target of reducing costs by on around the world to keep pace with rising demand for SABMillers beers.
US$120 million over three years.
Strategic priority three 15 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
