12 Business review | Our business and markets Marketplace overview Brand leadership Products and services Sage is one of the leading global suppliers of business We provide a choice of high quality products and management software and services for SMEs.
We are services which are relevant to our customers, use the most the third largest provider of business management appropriate technology and deployment methods and are 1 solutions in the world with a 7% market share.
The mix of products and services we deliver in each of our regions is tailored We have built our market-leading position around our according to the needs of our customers in that market.
decentralised business model, the customer experience These products and services are broadly classified into we provide, the strength of our distribution channels and the following groups: our local brands.
These brands, such as Ciel!
in France, Contaplus SP in Spain, Sage 50 in the UK, Softline Pastel Accounting in South Africa or Simply in Canada, are widely recognised Financial forecasting and trusted in their local markets.
Job costing Business intelligence Above and beyond the strength of our local brands, Taxation and other products for accountants Sage is an internationally recognised brand in its own Business stationery right.
The Sage brand is much more than our logo.
Development platforms It represents our energy and commitment to doing whats E-business right for our customers, going the extra mile and exceeding Enterprise Resource Planning ERP expectations.
To capitalise on our brand position we have Payroll made a substantial investment in a global initiative to Human Resources leverage the strengths of the Sage brand more consistently CRM and effectively alongside those of our local brands.
Payment processing This combination of our global and local brands provides us with a key point of differentiation.
Market leading brands Business management Competitive profile 1 solutions providers Global consistency A 1 2 3 4 Product Customer driven led B 5 Sage F E C D % A SAP 27.5 Local market solutions B Oracle 13.9 Key C Sage 7.0 1 SAP 4 Salesforce.
com D Infor 6.4 2 Oracle 5 Intuit E Microsoft 4.1 3 Microsoft F Others 41.1 1 Source: Gartner, August 2007, Worldwide ERP licence and maintenance revenue by vendor.
13 In addition to this broad range of solutions, we also recognise that businesses in different industries have specialised needs.
Consistent with our approach of staying close to our customers and delivering relevant solutions, many of our operating companies have, alongside our worldwide community of software developers, developed solutions for specific industries.
In regions where the market for business software is more established, such as in the UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America, much of our growth is driven by the demand for value-added support as well as integrated suites of software.
These suites integrate front and back office business processes and simplify workflow across an entire company.
We have also developed tiered levels of support contracts to meet differing customer needs.
These include software support contracts which combine software, annual upgrades, support and services such as electronic back-up, access to training resources and compliance services.
In emerging markets, such as Africa and Asia, growth is driven by demand for support contracts, payroll solutions, upgrades and migrations, as well as our international product offerings.
Industry-specific and specialised solutions UK & Mainland North Rest of Ireland Europe America World Healthcare HR and payroll Construction real estate Transport distribution Payment processing Accountancy Not-for-profit Manufacturing Retail 14 Business review | Our business and markets Technology developments International solutions Technology continues to move at a fast pace, with the We are seeing growing demand from existing and potential growth of SaaS as well as the emerging influence of web customers who increasingly operate internationally 2.0 technologies.
These developments present exciting and need a solution that works in all of their locations.
opportunities to enhance further the value we provide to These solutions must be robust enough to cope with customers, particularly in the areas of collaboration, multiple government legislation, currencies and languages integration and mobility.
We take a pragmatic, impartial yet be flexible, lean and offer local customisation.
As a approach, harnessing the most appropriate technologies global business with extensive experience of working for the benefits they can bring to our customers.
with growing SMEs, we understand these challenges and have developed ERP and CRM solutions that Whilst the market for SaaS is growing, we anticipate meet the demands international businesses generate.
that adoption will be gradual and will vary widely between The provision of these international solutions demonstrates markets.
We believe that customers will gradually our commitment to offer our customers a choice of high incorporate new technologies into their existing solutions quality, relevant, flexible and scalable solutions which meet and adopt a hybrid approach to their business software their evolving needs.
Our focus is on making the integration process easier for our customers, integrating desktop software with supplementary business services delivered as SaaS applications.
As a Group, we continue to introduce SaaS applications where appropriate for our customers.
These include Billing Boss, a SaaS invoicing service in Canada, Sage 50 Accounts Professional Online software integrated with online payment processing services in the UK and Sage Douane Delta, a SaaS application which enables French customers to file their tax returns online.
In CRM, we are creating new interoperability among our CRM solutions, ACT!, SageCRM and SalesLogix.
We are incorporating open web standards to enable integration between the front and back office.
Our CRM strategy also embraces SaaS capabilities and web 2.0 technologies which will provide users, such as mobile salespeople, with an interactive experience from a wide range of devices.
Whether mobile, on-demand or on-premise, our CRM solutions will provide sales teams with a more complete picture of their customers and enabling them to work more efficiently.
15 Cross company collaboration Even though we take a predominantly local approach we also place a great emphasis on collaboration across our businesses.
We work to leverage our accumulated knowledge, innovation, technologies and resources which enables us to continually improve the products and services we deliver to our customers.
This collaboration is on-going and this year has included: Sharing innovation around our premium support models.
For example, the Sage Accountants Club Priority Link in the UK, which provides priority access and dedicated account management for its customers, benefited from collaboration with our French and Spanish businesses, which also have experience of offering Sage Douane Delta premium support contracts.
Sage Douane Delta, is a SaaS application developed The introduction of Sage ERP X3, acquired through by Sage in France to assist customers with online our French business in 2005, into the product portfolios filing of their tax returns.
It has processed one million of our German and South African businesses.
returns since its launch in March 2007.
The application The roll-out of our global CRM strategy and its enables import export businesses in France to ease interoperability platform across multiple geographies.
their transactions with French Customs Douanes Franaises by giving them the ability to complete The leveraging of the knowledge gained by our UK their Customs returns online without generating business, when they developed the Sage 50 and Sage further paperwork or having to invest in sizeable IT 200 suites, by our North American business to launch infrastructure.
Customers are billed per transaction, the Sage Accpac ERP and Sage MAS Extended with no licence or maintenance fee, making Sage Enterprise Suites.
Doaune Delta a cost effective solution.
We take a pragmatic, impartial approach, harnessing the most appropriate technologies for the benets they can bring to our customers.
