qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 12 Chief Executives Statement In 2008, we delivered strong operational and financial performance while continuing to increase our presence in existing markets and enter new markets.
We were successful in expanding the scope and scale of existing contracts, both on rebids and during the contract term, and won a number of significant contracts in new markets with strong growth opportunities.
We delivered another year of doubleExpanding presence in a similar contract for the North Queensland digit revenue growth, enhanced our existing markets region.
The total value of both contracts to margins, generated good free cash flow We expanded our presence in existing Serco is AUS$362m.
In the US, we won a and strengthened our funding position.
markets, both through new contracts and rebid to deliver Aviation Technical At the same time, we invested in expanding the scope and scale of existing Maintenance and Support Services to the improving our capabilities, systems and contracts.
Among larger wins, in the UK US Navy, which has a total potential value structures across the business.
we won two contracts to deliver a range of US$167m over five years and of innovative environmental services for significantly increases the support we In an economic environment that seems the London Borough of Hammersmith & provide to the Space and Naval Warfare likely to remain challenging, our expectation Fulham and Milton Keynes Council valued Systems Center Atlantic.
of continued strong performance is respectively at 140m and 160m over a underpinned by our continued high revenue Developing new markets maximum of 14 years, and we renewed our visibility, our agility and flexibility in In 2008, we also invested in the education and childrens services contract addressing our customers needs and our development of a number of new markets.
with Walsall Council, which is now valued ability to direct our resources at the best In the local authority market, we signed our at 345m over a longer term of 12 years.
first local authority strategic partnership, We were also awarded a facilities valued at 265m over ten years, with The strength of our business model and management contract to manage 29 of Glasgow City Council.
We continue to the commitment of our people mean that Deloitte's office facilities and buildings pursue similar opportunities with other local we continue to deliver quality service to valued at 50m over five years.
In April, we signed our first light our customers, which was again reflected In defence, we continued to expand rail contract in the Middle East with an in our contract win rates.
During 2008, our services to the military in the UK and agreement, valued at 500m, to operate we maintained our win rates at over 90% overseas.
In the UK, we expanded our and maintain the Dubai Metro, leveraging on rebids and one in two new bids, and in contract, valued at 76m over its maximum the transport capabilities we have total we won over 200 contracts valued at ten-year term, to provide the Naval Air developed in the UK and positioning us 3.2bn across a wide range of our markets.
Command with engineering and aircraft well for further opportunities in the region.
support services at Yeovilton and Culdrose Our implementation plan for the Metro is air stations.
In Australia, Serco Sodexho on schedule ahead of the start of the Defence Services, a Serco joint venture, service in September 2009. renewed its contract to provide garrison support services at six defence bases in the Northern Territory, and was awarded 12 Serco Group plc Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 13 Visiting the Glasgow partnership team.
Investing to support our growth We have a substantial During the year, we continued to invest to support our strong growth: this means order book that gives us ensuring that we have the best people, capabilities, systems and business high visibility on our structures to meet our customers needs and pursue the higher-value opportunities available to us.
For example, during the future revenues year, we began the roll-out of our Business Academy, providing our people with online together with increasing access to the latest tools, thinking, approaches and techniques.
At the end of growth prospects.
July, we reorganised the central IT services team within our technology business in order to better align our capabilities with developing market needs such as in security and resilience, and to improve efficiency and simplify structures.
In the future, we will also leverage our new capabilities in India to support these and related areas.
We also completed the roll-out of our SAP system in the UK and the Asia Pacific business, and are now implementing it in the Middle East and anticipate starting this process in North America later this year.
A strong foundation for growth in the US government services market At the end of the year, we completed our acquisition of SI International, a provider of information services, technology, and network solutions to the US Government, for US$524m, including assumption of debt.
In 2008, SI International had revenue of US$575.5m and underlying Adjusted operating profit of US$36.7m.
SI International creates a strong foundation for growth and the delivery of higher value services in the US government services market, by giving us scale and increased resources to bid on larger US Government contracts, broader customer relationships, access to higher growth areas and increased capabilities.
Since the year end, Christopher Hyman Chief Executive 13 Serco AR08 Ver7.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 14 Chief Executives Statement continued we have made good progress in integrating A values-led company During the year, SI International with our existing North We continue to be focused on our values, American business, and there are early our Governing Principles as we call them, we continued to positive signs that our integrated teams will to ensure that we operate in the best be able to apply our enhanced capabilities interests of all our stakeholders in the short, invest to support across our enlarged customer base.
By combining a strong public service ethos with commercial We also entered the Indian market through acumen, we seek to create a working our strong growth: the acquisition in December of a majority environment that is attractive and rewarding shareholding in InfoVision, a BPO business for employees, and gives customers the this means ensuring serving the domestic Indian market, for confidence they need to entrust their 14.8m, and have invested in enhancing requirement to deliver excellent service to that we have the our presence and launching the Serco us.
That environment helps Serco people all brand in that market.
around the world give their best, whether best people, In January 2009, we announced that we improving the education a child receives, had formed a partnership with the Guys helping pilots and commuters arrive safely capabilities, systems and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust to at their destinations, supporting front line improve the Trusts pathology services and military personnel, or assisting businesses and business target the pathology market in the UK and in their plans to grow and prosper.
In the UK, pathology is a The quality and dedication of our people is structures to meet significant market, valued at around 2.5bn.
reflected in the many awards we receive The 50:50 joint venture the first of its kind around the world.
Some examples in 2008 our customers is branded as GSTS Pathology and will include the many employees who received operate and enhance the Trusts existing military service medals for their work in needs.
pathology capabilities under a ten-year operational theatres supporting the No.
32 contract valued at around 250m to Serco, The Royal Squadron and the Skynet 5 which started on 1 February 2009. secure military satellite communications In the nuclear market, while we were systems both in Iraq and Afghanistan.
disappointed that our consortium did not At Merseyrail and Northern Rail, employees win the Sellafield nuclear decommissioning dedication to service has been recognised contract, we have seen growth in our at an industry level: Merseyrail has achieved nuclear assurance business which is a high rating of 90% customer satisfaction well placed to take advantage of and Northern Rail was recognised as the increasing nuclear opportunities Rail Operator of the Year, having continued in the UK and overseas.
to improve reliability and service quality.
Among many other awards, we were again recognised by our peers as the UKs Most Admired Support Services company, for the fifth year in a row.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 15 Visibility of planned revenue at 31 December 2008 13% 13% 1% 90% 76% 76% 2009 63% 63% 12% 12% 1% 76% 2010 2011 49% 49% 15% 15% 1% 65% Order book Extensions & rebids Preferred bidder We were also delighted to celebrate the expertise through exporting proven models Our projections are achievement of those teams and individuals to new areas.
With growing markets and nominated by their colleagues to receive capabilities, our pipeline now stands that our revenue will a Pulse Award, which is Sercos way of at a substantial 26bn, including recognising their efforts in ensuring that SI Internationals pipeline of over 2bn.
increase to we live our Governing Principles and With our substantial order book, excellent support those around us and in our revenue visibility, and our ability to direct wider community.
Our peoples strong approximately our resources flexibly to pursue the best commitment, which we find all over opportunities, we remain confident that our Serco, is the real bedrock of our growth.
5bn and our business will continue to perform strongly.
As 2008 came to a close, approximately We expect increasing demand for our skills Adjusted operating 13,000 people joined the Serco family to support robust revenue growth, and see through the acquisitions of SI International good opportunities to improve our margins, profit margin to in the US and InfoVision in India.
We chose through our focus on managing our these companies very carefully, based on contract portfolio, enhancing our efficiency, approximately 6.3% the growing markets they operate in, the and bidding selectively for higher-value work.
skills and capabilities they have and, Given the confidence this gives us over the by the end of critically, the values that their people medium-term, we are guiding to revenue demonstrate.
We are delighted to welcome and margin by the end of 2012.
In future, them to the Group.
2012. reflecting the operational drivers of our margin improvement and in line with market Outlook and guidance practice, we will give our margin guidance While the global economic environment at the operating profit margin level.
seems likely to remain challenging, we have a substantial order book that gives us high Accordingly, and consistent with our visibility on our future revenues together previous guidance, our projections are that with increasing growth prospects.
our revenue will increase to approximately 5bn and our Adjusted operating profit Our long-term contracts and substantial margin to approximately 6.3% by the end order book continue to provide excellent of 2012, excluding material acquisitions, visibility over our revenues, over 90% of disposals and currency effects.
Including a 1bn benefit from SI International, we had In 2009, we expect to deliver double-digit a substantial order book of 16.3bn as at revenue growth and a 30bps increase 31 December 2008, and we had identified in our Adjusted PBT margin, excluding 90% of planned revenue for 2009, 76% SI International.
The addition of for 2010 and 65% for 2011.
SI International is anticipated to increase our 2009 revenue growth by approximately Constrained government budgets 10%.
Including the benefit of SI International, drive demand for efficiency and we expect our Adjusted operating profit cost-effectiveness in the delivery of public margin of 5.3% in 2008 to increase by services, especially as governments approximately 40bps in 2009.
This balance their investment in providing 2009 guidance excludes material economic stimulus with the requirement currency effects.
Our strong capabilities mean that we are well positioned to provide relevant support in existing markets and to leverage our Serco Group plc 15
