24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 6 Chief Executives review Focus on operational improvement Operational performance Customer service In 2006 07, whilst we undertook the establishment of the correct measures and standards for service in our Customer Relations operation, we were the poorest performer in the industry and were criticised by Ofwat, our economic regulator, and the Consumer Council for Water.
In 2007 08 we have re-engineered the processes, improved our telephony infrastructure, trained our staff and are now delivering levels of service that are radically improved.
Our reported and assessed Tony Wray service for 2007 08 is now back in line with other companies, Chief Executive demonstrating a clear recovery and improvement.
The movement in KPI 4 customer written complaints shown on page 14 demonstrates A revitalised Severn Trent is better placed the results of the improvements we have made.
to serve our customers, shareholders Leakage and regulators.
We have outperformed our Ofwat target for 2007 08 having failed to meet this measure for the previous two years.
We have introduced improvements in measurement and detection, speed of response, resource allocation and targeting the replacement of our network.
Introduction More information about our leakage KPI can be found on page 16.
I believe that a revitalised Severn Trent is emerging from a difficult and challenging period better placed to satisfy our customers, regulators, Controlling our costs employees and shareholders.
For the first two years of our regulatory contract 2005 06 and 2006 07, we failed to get down to the spending level assumed by Severn Trent Water now has a simple and compelling vision.
We aim to Ofwat as we struggled with higher energy prices and inefficient be the water and waste services company in the UK which achieves the processes.
For 2007 08 we have delivered an operating cost outturn highest quality of customer service standards whilst offering our slightly better than the level assumed by Ofwat in their final customers the lowest prices with great people delivering the service.
determination of price limits in 2004.
Improvements to the supply We also aim to continue to develop our complementary business of chain process for energy purchase have been established, enabling Water Technologies and Services to enhance our leadership position a significant proportion of future energy demand to be hedged at as a supplier of water and waste water solutions to key markets around or close to the Ofwat final determination level for the last two years the world.
Our improvement plans at Severn Trent Water are designed to ensure Environmental performance a virtuous circle of investment, process improvement, customer In 2006 07, despite having a leading position when judged by size satisfaction and regulatory compliance, thereby delivering lower costs of population, in absolute terms we had an above average number and sustainable returns.
of total pollution incidents, around 530.
In 2007 08 we have delivered We need sustainable profits to finance investment.
In approximate an action plan to improve the process of preventative maintenance terms, for every 2 we make in profit we are investing 3 back into targeted sewer cleansing and speed of response.
We have reduced water and sewerage assets.
the total number of incidents to around 417, which are recorded in the Environment Agencys report to Ofwat.
The implementation of our strategy of focusing on water is already showing demonstrable results and, with our 25 year Strategic Direction Simplifying our management structures Statement, we have a vision for the future which we are sharing with We inherited a bureaucratic and unwieldy structure with costly all our key stakeholders.
Details of this can be found on pages 8 and 9. duplication between Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water, with two boards and two executive teams.
Here are some of our key operational results and achievements in the past 12 months at Severn Trent Water.
We committed to the creation of a single executive team, establishment of single support functions and the consequent reduction in corporate overhead costs.
We have implemented the structural and organisational changes and have delivered 14 million cost reduction for 2007 08.
6 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Direction 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 7 Last year, we identified 24 million of restructuring costs to be incurred Unplanned interruptions in the remaining three years of AMP4 in order to raise standards and Our KPI is based on Ofwats DG3 measure.
With regret, we report a improve efficiency.
We also highlighted that we expected staffing levels deterioration in performance against this measure in 2007 08 and we to reduce permanent and agency in Severn Trent Water by around fully recognise that this is unacceptable to our customers and regulator 600 posts over a five year period.
and commit to delivering improvements in 2008 09.
Details of this KPI can be found on page 14.
In 2007 08 we expected to incur 8 million of restructuring costs, to eliminate 130 posts and to meet the Ofwat determination for operating Sewer flooding costs.
During 2007 08 we have actually invested 13.9 million Due to a challenging first few months of 2007 08, we had significantly classified as exceptional operating costs.
This investment has delivered more incidents of sewer flooding, resulting in us failing to improve our sustainable improvements in 2007 08, with operating costs around KPI performance.
However, there were improvements from August 1% lower than that assumed in the Final Determination and 150 posts onwards which will position us better to deliver improved results over being eliminated from the organisation.
Notwithstanding the progress the next year.
Details of this KPI can be found on page 15. made to date, we continue to develop our plans to optimise the Floods performance of the company and sustain the improvements in the Julys unprecedented rainfall, record river levels and the sheer severity longer term.
These plans are now focused on three broad areas: of the resulting flooding forced us to shut The Mythe Water Treatment process improvements: Works in Tewkesbury on 22 July 2007 in order to protect the works, the technology and systems that support these processes: and causing 138,000 homes to lose their mains water supply.
the location, training and development of our people to operate Our customers and employees responded magnificently, as did our in this new environment.
suppliers, local authorities, other water companies, the emergency These improvement plans are integrated into our business plan, are services and armed forces, as well as the community of Gloucestershire.
the basis of our future improvements in effective and efficient operation We are already taking steps to make our plants and networks more and will form a major part of the companys draft business plan to be resilient against the growing pressures that climate change and growth submitted to Ofwat in August 2008.
Over the next two years, we now will put on them.
We have also overhauled our emergency and expect to incur exceptional restructuring costs of around 24 million.
contingency plans, learning from the events of 2007.
These costs represent the continuing implementation of our improvement plans that extend beyond the end of the current AMP In addition, we established a 3.5 million recovery fund for period as we continue to deliver against our objective of raising Gloucestershire, working with local authorities and voluntary standards and improving efficiency.
As described in the Chairmans organisations to make sure the money went where it was needed most.
outlook statement, we remain on track to deliver around 3% annual Water Technologies and Services branded as outperformance against the Ofwat determination for operating costs Severn Trent Services in 2008 09 and 2009 10.
Throughout 2007 08 we have achieved underlying top line and Creation of process aligned organisation bottom line growth and maintained a good return on invested capital.
In 2007 08 we dismantled the previous operating model of Asset Our strategy is clear.
We will continue to: Management, Engineering, Operations and Customer Relations and created an organisation based around the key aligned processes of invest in the geographic expansion of our products and services: Water, Waste Water and Customer Relations.
Throughout 2007 08 expand the scope of our operating services in both our home we selected and appointed new teams in every part of our business.
countries and other interrelated markets: In addition, we have created alignment around our KPIs.
focus on and invest in product and operational enhancements to improve our effectiveness and efficiency: Health and safety develop and invest in new technologies at the forefront of water I firmly believe that a successful organisation must be a safe one.
personally to everyone in Severn Trent Water who has a lost time injury to reinforce further the importance of prevention and learning.
Our future direction Severn Trent is a revitalised group with a clear strategy: to focus on In 2007 08, our group performance on our health and safety KPI water.
We are driving for higher standards and continuing improvement of Lost Time Incidents LTI per 100,000 hours worked was 0.58, in performance.
We are making progress but we still have much to do.
Both 2006 07 and 2007 08 LTI rates Our direction is clear and we have the commitment of our board, have been restated to include road traffic accidents.
Although the figure management and, above all, our staff to achieve our goals.
for the year overall has not come down, in the last few months of 2007 08 we did achieve reductions.
Throughout 2007 08 we continued to reduce the number of Lost Time Days.
We remain committed to improving this performance for the benefit of all our employees and for those who work with Severn Trent.
