Our vision is to be Europes leading provider of sustainable waste management solutions chief executives statement I joined as Group Chief Executive on Strategy 1 October 2007 and since then have Having reviewed the business during my managed to visit all of our major sites in first six months I believe there is an the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada and exciting opportunity to generate attractive the UK and met many of the people upon returns for investors by focusing our whom we rely for our success.
My overall investment around sustainable waste impression is that Shanks is a great management in all of the countries in company to be joining at an exciting time which we operate.
There is sufficient for the industry.
Governments across the market opportunity for us to generate high world are urging the waste industry to organic growth rates from such support them in recovering more investment with a lower risk profile than a resources and energy from the things that growth strategy based solely on society throws away.
economic incentives to increase recycling through taxation on landfill and in some Our Group strategy going forward is cases incineration, alongside subsidies therefore a simple one: to deliver organic for treatment processes that support the growth by investing in assets that support production of renewable energy from sustainable waste management and are waste.
The new European Directive on capable of delivering attractive returns on Waste currently moving through the capital.
Alongside this we will actively European Parliament will provide further share expertise and technology across legislative support for this trend.
the Group whilst retaining a very strong focus on keeping our unit costs amongst Shanks is well placed to prosper in this the lowest in the industry.
Finally, we will changing environment.
Our Group use acquisitions to improve capacity operates in countries with the highest utilisation our tuck-in model or to recycling rates in Europe and has secure capabilities that re-orient the experience of a number of treatment Group to higher growth activities.
processes capable of producing renewable energy from waste.
We have The potential for this growth strategy was set ourselves the aspiration to be shown in this years financial results with regarded as Europes leading sustainable all major business units growing well waste management company and will be ahead of inflation other than our Belgian working hard over the coming years to landfill which, as expected, delivered a achieve this goal.
Our investments in each of our country operations during the year reflected the strategic intent highlighted above.
annual report 2008 The Netherlands Belgium UK Strategy Strategy Strategy Maintain our premium margins and grow Grow our Industrial & Commercial I&C Make Shanks the preferred alternative to our Solid and Hazardous Waste Solid Waste business to replace declining landfill.
By establishing a network of businesses ahead of GDP with higher landfill profits by securing competitive processing centres based on the Shanks growth coming from Orgaworld and tuck-in disposal outlets and through renewable Benelux model.
Our Dutch business generated a trading In 2008 landfill accounted for around a Having sold its landfill assets in 2004, margin of 13% in 2008, a performance third of the Belgian profits, already down Shanks is well positioned to take which compares favourably with its peers.
The advantage of rising landfill taxation to Our goal is to maintain this premium contribution from this activity is falling as divert waste we collect to processing position whilst growing the business.
the government seeks to ban municipal centres that we will create similar to biodegradable waste from going to landfill those in our Benelux businesses.
We will The acquisition of Orgaworld in April 2007 and we are therefore creating profitable continue to grow our municipal treatment for 30m plus a five year earn-out of up alternatives by focusing on processing business through participation in Public to 20m provides the Group with strong I&C, organic and wood waste in a way Finance Initiative PFI projects.
capabilities to process source segregated that creates a fuel source or renewable organic waste using advanced composting energy at a lower overall cost than In November 2007 we completed the or anaerobic digestion technologies.
acquisition of Wastecom for 11m to These are technologies that have very provide us with advanced recycling attractive growth potential in a number of We invested in organic growth projects to capability in the Kettering area.
Already a leading produce solid recovered fuel SRF from on the success of recent investments in player in the Dutch organics market I&C customers at our Ghent plant and in Scotland, this further supports our belief serving both municipal and commercial the provision of anaerobic digestion and that there is a profitable opportunity in the customers, we have been able to achieve wastewater treatment at our Roeselare UK to develop a strong recycling business a strong market position in the Canadian plant.
Both of these will generate energy using our expertise from the Benelux.
In market through the application of from waste and support strong growth for April 2008 landfill tax rose by the highest Orgaworlds composting product.
Long our non-landfill I&C business in Belgium.
amount ever 8 per tonne on its way to a term contracts in Toronto and Ottawa with target of 48 per tonne by 2010.
The a total contract value of approximately Shortly after the year end we announced government has confirmed its commitment Can$250m were secured during the year.
the acquisition of the Foronex Group for a to further increases beyond this point and We are also actively looking to introduce consideration of 23m.
Foronex is a this provides the right incentive for its products into the UK and Belgian leading player in the wood waste and byinvestment in recycling and reprocessing markets.
products market in the Benelux and a centres.
We have targeted three regions in significant provider of wood based the UK which in the short to medium term We invested a further 18m including products to the rapidly growing energy will provide the geographic focus to build 3m of deferred payments in 4 small from biomass marketplace.
These are the Central Belt tuck-in acquisitions in the Netherlands opportunities to support the continued of Scotland, the East Midlands and the aimed at improving capacity utilisation growth of this exciting business and to Northern Home Counties.
We have and increasing our local market share.
access more profitable outlets for the identified the sites that we would like to Our commitment to keeping at the 230,000 tonnes of waste wood we develop and will be applying for planning forefront of recycling in the Dutch market currently process each year in the permission shortly.
These, together with was demonstrated by the completion of Benelux.
continued tuck-in acquisitions, will support an investment of 3m in the latest the development of a profitable UK recycling technology at our Vliko plant in recycling business.
annual report 2008 5 chief executives statement continued We continue to believe that the UK PFI consists of the managing directors of the market offers attractive opportunities for three countries together with myself and Shanks.
Over the next ten years the the Group Finance Director, meets government estimates 10bn of funding regularly and part of its remit is to ensure will be required to upgrade the that such knowledge transfer takes place.
infrastructure needed to divert the We will focus on specific projects and biodegradable municipal solid waste away opportunities and will not seek to from landfill.
Shanks has taken a strong centralise activities that are best done position in the market through its locally, thereby avoiding the build-up of proposition based upon the innovative unnecessary overhead.
EcoDeco mechanical biological treatment MBT technology.
We believe this remains Performance a very attractive solution to the needs of We are committed to producing attractive local authorities and so creates a strong returns for the owners of the business.
pipeline of opportunities as authorities We have analysed our portfolio and have move to meet their 2010 and 2013 identified where the best opportunities for reduction targets.
We continue our maximising returns on capital employed negotiations with Cumbria County Council ROCE are.
Whilst our current overall where we are preferred bidder and expect ROCE of 12% is ahead of our weighted this opportunity to reach financial closure average cost of capital WACC, we believe during the current financial year.
that we can and should generate greater returns from our capital base and will be Culture looking for our new investments to Shanks has a highly decentralised contribute to this improvement alongside structure that has allowed it to keep its improving the cash generation and central overheads low and maintain an profitability of our underlying existing entrepreneurial culture in its operating businesses.
This, in my view, has been a strength of Shanks and one which I intend to retain.
Waste collection and processing remains essentially a local business and it is important that decision making is as close to the customer as possible.
It has also proved an important factor in persuading entrepreneurial managers who join the Group through acquisition to remain with us.
Tom Drury This said however, our strategy going Group Chief Executive forward will be to focus on building recycling and energy recovery activities across the Group and it makes good sense to share the technologies and years of expertise that we have within the Group.
The Executive Committee, which 6 shanks.
