7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 4 4 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Chief Executive Officers review Over the course of the past two years at Shire, weve broadened our pipeline portfolio with eight new products, while successfully bolstering our existing franchises.
Riskswisely measured and we have taken to further leverage both.
judiciously takenare part and parcel Consider this: over the course of the of every successful company, and last two years alone, weve successfully certainly weve taken our fair share at completed six deals that have yielded Shire.
In our brightest moments we eight new products in our pipeline have stood at a critical juncture, made portfolio.
Consider, also, this: the defining, not-always-obvious decisions, combined sales of new products and redefined the future not just for launched in the past four years achieved ourselves, but for the physicians and $1 billion of sales in 2008. patients we serve.
Were committed to going the distance Since succeeding Matt Emmens as CEO with every product at Shireasking in June, I have been particularly keen hard questions, exploring new on staying true to those aspects of our indications, looking for ways to extend culture that brought us to our present proven technologies into new state as one of the most effective treatments: always with the patients biopharmaceutical companies in the needs most at heart.
The acquisition world: the willingness to take measured of New River, for example, didnt just risks: the courage to challenge one provide Shire with VYVANSE, a nextanother: and the unyielding commitment generation treatment for attention deficit to the patients, physicians, and and hyperactivity disorder ADHD : communities we serve.
We spent the it opened the door to new possibilities time, in 2008, to look around and to associated with CarrierWave technology, project forwardto set the targets that which enhances drug metabolism and will enable us to emerge, by 2015, as may well have applications for other one of the most valuable specialty medicines.
At the same time were biopharmaceutical companies in the expanding our patient populations with world.
We committed to the underlying plans to expand our presence in thesis that now forms the core of our markets outside the US and the corporate brandthat we strive to be proposed launch in the US of INTUNIV, as brave as the people we help.
our first non-stimulant ADHD drug.
Of course, achieving our mission In the gastrointestinal business unit, demands quite a lot of Shires pipeline we are taking similar strides as well as its marketed portfolio, and leveraging our success with LIALDA, I am very pleased with the steps that our expertise in ulcerative colitis, and 7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 5 5 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Chief Executive Officers review Were asking hard questions, exploring new indications, looking for ways to extend proven technologies into new treatments.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 6 6 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Chief Executive Officers review Weve come together with one overriding purpose: to be as brave as the people we help.
our relationships with gastroMoreover, HGT products are helping enterologists to explore new options for Shire meet its goal of global patients suffering from an entire range diversification, with REPLAGAL and of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Were ELAPRASE together now approved currently in the midst of Phase 2 trials and in use in more than 40 countries, for SPD550, a compound we licensed and 70% of HGT sales now generated in from Alba Therapeutics Corporation outside the United States.
Our world Alba because we believe that it can really is expanding rapidly at Shire, have important implications for patients and we are taking aggressive steps suffering from Celiac disease.
to capitalize onand to create opportunities for patients around the Three and a half years ago, when world who do not yet have access Shire acquired what has since become to the life-altering medicines that we known as Shire Human Genetic manufacture and sell.
Therapies, there were only four projects in the pipeline and there were many Pressures abound in the current questions about this relatively small economy, but at Shire were not just companys future.
Three deals later merely biding our time.
We are moving with Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. forwardbolstering our pipeline through Amicus, Zymenex A S Zymenex business-enhancing acquisitions, and Jerini AG Jerini HGT is 1,000 anticipating breakthroughs for patients people strong, with three marketed with unmet needs, capitalizing on new drugs in its portfolio REPLAGAL, patient populations, and looking for ELAPRASE and FIRAZYR and a commonalities between our Specialty number of very exciting Phase 2 and HGT businesses.
Its been an and 3 products designed to treat exciting time and the future promises such debilitating conditions as even more.
I thank my colleagues Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, and for continuing to help Shire live up to Metachromatic Leukodystrophy.
now occupies an entire campus in Lexington, Massachusettsa campus that we opened to investors in November during our first-ever HGT Business Day.
Angus Russell Chief Executive Officer
