10 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Chief Executives statement Since joining Smiths some nine months ago, I have undertaken a We have delivered strong sales and profit thorough review of operations.
It is a Group with a strong set of growth driven by good performances from technology-based businesses applying some of the worlds most advanced industrial sciences from airport X-ray scanning machines to John Crane, Smiths Detection and Smiths mechanical seals for the oil industry.
In addition, the businesses operate Interconnect.
A performance improvement in markets sustained by long-term secular growth: Smiths Medicals market is growing as populations age and increase in prosperity, John programme is underway to address the Crane by energy consumption, and Interconnect by the need for increased bandwidth and upgraded wireless infrastructure.
Smiths operational issues that have held back Detection is driven by demand for increased security and protection.
Smiths Medical over the past two years.
Although Flex-Tek is exposed to more cyclical markets such as US housing, it has a portfolio of high-performance products that supply the aerospace market.
The portfolio has been strengthened this My review of operations identified significant opportunities to improve year through one divestment and seven performance progressively over a two-year period and maximise value acquisitions which bring new technologies for shareholders.
To deliver these benefits, the Board has already taken some key decisions: and extend Smiths geographic footprint manage the Group as five divisions from 1 August 2008 and restructure particularly in developing markets.
each to improve customer service and deliver efficiencies: restructure and reduce the corporate centre to cut cost and focus it on Our focus is on top-line growth and margin delivering returns from the business: enhancement while there are significant improve business systems and data-flow which, over time, will support opportunities to improve performance and data-driven decision-making and enable the Group to be more responsive to changing market conditions and opportunities: generate value across the Group.
We have build the business through acquisitions which will add complementary begun a substantial restructuring technologies, expand the geographic footprint or leverage existing programme that will deliver operating scale: efficiencies and improve customer service.
increase investment in research and development and focus it more intensely on higher growth areas that will deliver greater returns: and The scale of the opportunities is introduce an incentive scheme for senior management that reinforces demonstrated by the new divisional targets our new culture of performance improvement and delivery against set out here for the first time.
In June, we announced that the Specialty Engineering division would be The sustained upheaval in the world disbanded so that its three constituent businesses John Crane, Interconnect and Flex-Tek report directly to me.
This reduces cost and economy is creating uncertainty in many gives greater accountability to each of the businesses.
In addition, all markets and may disrupt government Smiths divisions will now be managed from divisional headquarters that are closer to their operations, key markets and customers.
spending patterns particularly in the We also aim to realise value by restructuring the divisions themselves.
US and India where there are forthcoming For example, John Crane which had historically been managed as two elections.
However, Smiths Group is well separate operations from the UK and US, is now combined under the leadership of Paul Cox and headquartered at Morton Grove, near placed among global businesses to meet Chicago.
In Medical, the management structure in the US will be simplified and we will introduce a global approach to R&D.
also further opportunities to re-organise Flex-Teks portfolio of businesses to drive efficiencies and improve operational effectiveness.
Looking at this years results, sales rose by 7% and the headline pre-tax At the same time, we have defined more clearly the roles of the divisions profit increased by 10%: after adjusting for currency translation and and their interface with the corporate centre.
These changes will reduce acquisitions and disposals the underlying improvement was 6% and 8% substantially the size of the corporate office and improve the way we respectively.
The headline numbers exclude various exceptional items work by introducing better defined governance and decision-making.
which are detailed in the Business Review: one of these is a charge of The small head office will concentrate on three areas: setting the 40m in respect of John Crane, Inc. litigation, a full explanation of which Groups strategic direction and capital allocation: leveraging the Groups is on page 29. scale where appropriate: and ensuring compliance as a UK-listed company.
In future, we will report the corporate centre costs separately which will give greater clarity to the underlying margins of the divisions and provide a clear incentive to minimise corporate costs.
11 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Taken together, these restructuring programmes are expected to deliver To reinforce our new culture of performance improvement, we have annual cost savings of 47m once they are complete in three years established targets for sales growth and margins for each of the divisions.
The cost of delivering these programmes will be 48m which will These are the ranges we anticipate the divisions will operate within over be treated as an exceptional item.
Further details are given in the the next three years, based on organic growth at constant currency and divisional reviews.
assume a financial and macro-economic environment consistent with that of recent years.
Alongside this, we have introduced a new incentive We are also investing more to improve data-flow and speed up decisionplan for senior management and divisional leadership.
It more closely making through the implementation of better information systems.
For links remuneration with performance and, ultimately, value creation and example, ERP systems are currently being deployed in Detection, John places much greater accountability on the divisional leadership for the Crane and Medical.
At a Group level, a new information platform is being performance of their businesses.
The new incentive plan means that introduced which will help capture operational data from the divisions.
each division will have its own targets to meet, reward will be bound This creates opportunities to leverage the scale of the Group for the first together by one common currency, the Smiths share price.
In that way time by group-wide procurement of travel, IT, and other services.
We we will reflect the value-creating performance of each division.
have already launched a programme to consolidate IT service delivery across the Group, improving service quality and cutting costs.
We have Sales also signed a deal with AT&T to supply a range of communication 2008 2008 Target # # m growth growth range services such as mobile telephones, remote access, etc.
which will deliver annual savings of at least $5m.
Detection 509 12% 10-12% John Crane 626 8% 6-8% Our management team has also been strengthened.
Reflecting the Medical 703 0% 3-5% importance of the IT investment, Brian Jones has joined us as Chief Interconnect 261 13% 6-10% Information Officer.
He brings many years experience in implementing Flex-Tek 206 4% 0-7% ERP systems and improving information flow within large organisations.
Michael Herlihy has been appointed General Counsel and is also a Total 2,305 member of the Executive Committee and Peter Durman has joined to lead an invigorated investor relations programme.
The mix of talent at Headline operating profit Smiths will continue to be refreshed and reinforced with external 2008 2008 Target appointments bringing different competencies and innovative ideas to m margin margin range the Group.
Detection 93 18% 17-20% There are valuable opportunities to build Smiths through bolt-on John Crane 104 17% 17-22% acquisitions particularly in John Crane, Interconnect and Detection.
Medical 140 20% 20-24% Such acquisitions bring complementary technologies, support Interconnect 54 21% 21-23% geographic expansion or leverage existing infrastructure.
John Crane Flex-Tek 24 12% 11-16% acquired Indufil, a specialist in filtration systems, and Sartorius Bearing Corporate centre 35 Technology, a leading provider of high performance rotating equipment Total 380 for the oil and gas industry: both have added valuable new technologies The above analysis reflects the revised operating structure for 2008 09, see page 72, and that can be leveraged through John Cranes global network of more than excludes three months of trading for Marine Systems which was sold in November 2007.
John Crane also acquired Fiberod which # Organic growth at constant currency further extends our upstream energy services capability and complements the CDI acquisition made last year.
In addition, John Crane Delivering these returns will be a team effort and I would like to thank expanded its presence in Japan, the worlds second largest market for our 22,000 employees around the world for their hard work and support OEM pump manufacturers, by increasing its ownership share of John during a time of very real change both within Smiths Group and the wider Crane Japan from 49% to 70%.
In Interconnect, the acquisitions of economy.
Shanghai-based Allrizon Tongguang and Brisbane-based Triasx Pty Ltd In summary, I believe that most divisions have the opportunity to improve have strengthened its position in the growing Asian market.
The greater responsibility, accountability and acquisition of Fast Heat has extended its range of specialty heating incentivisation of the divisional management teams, combined with the solutions.
availability of better data to underpin management decisions, should We are also driving higher levels of revenue growth organically through progressively unlock value for the benefit of shareholders.
an increase in research and development R&D investment focused more tightly on growth areas that can deliver the most attractive returns.
R&D investment for the Group increased by 8%, or 7m, to 86m.
In Philip Bowman Detection, our spend has been focused on X-ray detection systems for Chief Executive both airports and cargo screening, while we have extended our portfolio of chemical and trace detectors.
We are at the cutting edge of a number of technologies X-ray screening, millimetre wave imaging and biological detection.
In Medical, we have launched a number of new products during the year as we begin to benefit from the introduction of a streamlined product development process.
It has resulted in a 50% increase in the number of product launches this year.
