Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Dear Shareholders SOCO closes out one of the most tumultuous years ever in this industry with the strongest balance sheet in the Companys history and began ramping up to the highest production rate in years.
Rui fide Sousa left Chairman Ed Story right President and Chief Executive Officer 06 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Financials Financials Financials position to ensure that it can meet its During the year we demonstrated our future development and exploration goals.
ability to bring a major project on stream, After tax profit from continuing operations essentially on time and on budget, during was $30.6 million from just four and five a period of high material costs and months of producing operations from the scarcity of qualified contractors.
With Groups Thailand and Vietnam assets, further work to be done, we have what respectively, representing a significant could become one of our most significant addition to earnings.
In line with our continuing operations, averaged over the business strategy, value was realised period since start up, was 6,415 barrels from our mature asset in Yemen in order of oil per day BOPD.
to provide funds for reinvestment in areas with material upside that promise 2008 was an extremely active year for the potential to further add significant the Group.
Continuous drilling in Vietnam: shareholder value.
construction of development facilities on the CNV field in Vietnam and the Our business model is about progressive Bualuang field in Thailand: and presustainability as we aim to refresh our drill exploration activity in the DRC and asset portfolio by replacing disposals Congo Brazzaville meant that the Groups with potentially high impact new projects.
capital expenditures reached a record Although Vietnam assets are already $217.6 million 2007 $178.6 million.
The in the portfolio, the high pressure high Company not only funded its commitments temperature HPHT area in Block 16-1 through the funds raised on the disposal where we had the discovery with the of its Yemen asset, operating cash flows Te Giac Den 1X side track TGD-1XST1 of $45.1 million 2007 $49.0 million and well represents an exciting new area for with the remainder of proceeds from the appraisal.
We added to our growing presence in West and Central Africa by convertible bonds issued in 2006, but farming into a prospective block adjacent ended the year with its highest ever to our Marine XI Block offshore the cash balance of $303.4 million 2007 Republic of Congo Congo Brazzaville $68.3 million.
This ensures that the and by signing a production sharing Company is well placed to progress its agreement on a block in the Democratic existing exploration and development Republic of Congo DRC in the highly opportunities and to consider other prospective Albertine Graben where other opportunities that may arise.
industry participants have announced several significant discoveries in the The Directors do not recommend the Profit from continuing operations basin on the Uganda side of the border.
payment of a dividend as the reinvestment We also have a memorandum of of cash will be utilised to fund our ongoing understanding on a very large interior exploration and development activities.
$30.6m 2008 Operations Review Adding or replacing components of the Vietnam asset portfolio are only meaningful if this Block 16-1 Profit from the sale of our leads to value creation.
Bringing two To date, seven exploration appraisal wells Yemen interest projects into production in South East have been drilled in the Te Giac Trang Asia and clearing the initial hurdle in TGT field, with an average oil and gas embarking into the development of what flow of approximately 11,300 BOPD has been the Companys largest field from each well.
The TGT field reserve $356.7m discovery in its history indicates that assessment report RAR received we can progress the impressive asset approval from the Vietnam Government portfolio that we have built.
in April 2008 and the field subsequently received a Declaration of Commerciality Financial and Operating Results under the Petroleum Contract.
The Outline Three items dominate the Companys Development Plan was approved by the results for 2008.
The completion of the national oil company, Petrovietnam, in sale of SOCOs Yemen interest in April September.
The TGT Field Development contributed $356.7 million to 2008 earnings Plan is anticipated to be submitted for along with $36.4 million of operating profit approval by the Vietnam Government through to April and provided $438.5 in the first quarter of 2009. million cash inflow from the transaction.
In July, the Company announced the During the year, two appraisal wells were commencement of production operations drilled.
In June, the TGT-6X appraisal well at the Ca Ngu Vang CNV field on Block was drilled on the H4 fault block as a down 9-2 in Vietnam.
This was followed by the dip test to the TGT-3X exploration well.
commencement of production from the Two drill stem tests DSTs flowed at a Bualuang development in Thailand in combined maximum rate of 14,490 BOPD August.
All three events underpin the of 39 degree API gravity crude oil.
The Groups strong balance sheet and financial TGT-7X appraisal well on a previously Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 07 untested fault block, designated H3N, shareholders of the Hoang Long Chairmans and Chief within the TGT field, was spud in July.
The Joint Operating Company HLJOC Executives Statement well flowed at a combined maximum rate unanimously approved the Declaration of continued of approximately 8,100 BOPD from Commerciality for the TGT field.
approval by the Government of Vietnam is now anticipated in the first half of 2009.
The addition of a productive interval Concurrent with moving toward the discovered by the TGT-6X, combined with development of TGT, exploration drilling the success on the previously untested continued on the Block when in January fault block penetrated by TGT-7X, adds 2008, the Company received formal confidence to our recoverable crude oil notification that the Prime Minister of The range estimates for this field.
Moreover, six Socialist Republic of Vietnam had granted wells over a 15 kilometre structure testing the extension of the deadline of the a total of 60,000 BOPD provides comfort HLJOCs obligation of surrendering the relative to an expected full field production remainder of the Block 16-1 Contract outlook in excess of 100,000 BOPD with Area until 6 June 2008.
This extension first phase production targeted for was granted to allow the completion of the mid-2011.
previously agreed active work programme.
The Outline Development Plan for the The HLJOC gave notice in June of a TGT field was submitted early in the discovery at the TGD-1XST1 following second quarter of 2008.
In August, the completion of the first DST from the prospect E well.
Although significant downhole damage sustained during drilling and preparations for completion precluded recording meaningful sustained flow rates, the test flowed gas and condensate to surface.
The second DST recovered black oil, condensate and gas, indicating the presence of oil with similar qualities to that of the CNV field.
The test was hampered by apparent limitations of the perforations, which had to penetrate two casing strings and associated cementing.
Additionally, operational issues during both the drilling and testing of the well impacted on its ability to flow and accordingly there are no meaningful sustainable flow rates from either test.
The main objective of TGD-1XST1 was to identify the presence of a working hydrocarbon system.
This was achieved confirming a high pressure environment necessary to recover hydrocarbons at these extended depths.
Based on the TGD-1XST1 discovery and a previous discovery at the Voi Trang VT prospect, Petrovietnam approved the application for two appraisal areas within Block 16-1 in January 2009.
The TGD We are confident in the sustainability of our business appraisal area encompasses an area model as we begin exploration drilling in Africa this year of 150 square kilometres including prospect E and the analogous E and progress development and appraisal programmes South Prospect.
This area borders the in Vietnam.
southern boundary of the TGT field.
The VT appraisal area, the award of which is Ed Story conditional upon a successful RAR of the President and Chief Executive Officer commerciality of the previous discoveries in the awarded area, encompasses the VT discovery and several adjacent leads, and covers an area of approximately 100 square kilometres.
08 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 09 terms of a rig contract for a two well HLJOC has submitted the requisite Chairmans and Chief drilling programme in the Marine XI Block documentation to the Government of Executives Statement that is expected to commence in the third Vietnam for formal approval.
Upon continued quarter of 2009. receiving final governmental approval of the appraisal areas, which is expected In September, SOCO EPC entered into in the first quarter of 2009, work will a farm-in agreement to acquire a 29.4% commence immediately to reprocess the working interest in the Marine XIV Block, 3D seismic over the TGD appraisal area which received regulatory approval from in anticipation of drilling a well in 2010. the Government of Congo Brazzaville in The RAR on the VT appraisal area is March 2009.
The Marine XIV Block, which anticipated to be complete by the end will also be operated by SOCO EPC, is of the second quarter of 2009. located in the Lower Congo Basin in shallow water, adjacent to the Companys Block 9-2 Marine XI Block, and will complement The first flow of crude oil and wet gas SOCOs activity both operationally and from the CNV field occurred on 25 July technically.
It was developed as an unmanned discontinuous sections located in water platform tied back to the Bach Ho depths ranging up to 115 metres and facilities and was the first project in covers approximately 265 square Vietnam to utilise the existing facilities kilometres.
Previous exploration activity of Bach Ho in order to maximise the life on the Block has resulted in oil discoveries.
of existing infrastructure and minimise the A multi azimuth 3D seismic acquisition investment costs.
Five development wells programme is currently underway.
have been drilled in the field and a sixth is drilling as at the time of this report.
Democratic Republic of Congo The Hoan Vu Joint Operating Company Kinshasa DRC HVJOC is evaluating the necessity In March 2008, SOCO Exploration and for additional development wells in the fractured Basement reservoir.
The field is Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC expected to be in production for the next entered into a new production sharing 20 years.
Oil production is expected to contract PSC with the Government of be between 10,000 to 20,000 BOPD and the DRC, Dominion Petroleum Limited wet gas production to be between 25 and Dominion and Cohydro, to acquire 50 million cubic feet per day.
The HVJOC exclusive rights for hydrocarbon has signed a provisional gas contract, exploration on Block 5, located in the with final pricing to be determined by southern Albertine Graben in eastern an independent expert during 2009 DRC adjacent to the border with Uganda and applied retroactively to the start where there have been recent discoveries of production.
The Block has an area of 7,105 square kilometres, including part Thailand of Lake Edward.
SOCO E&P DRC holds a First production of crude oil from the 38.25% participating interest in the PSC.
Bualuang oil field in Block B8 38, in the Gulf of Thailand, occurred on 27 August In April our PSC over the Nganzi Block, 2008.
Following the successful hook onshore DRC, received a Presidential up and commissioning of the floating Decree thus passing the final regulatory production storage and offloading vessel, hurdle before becoming effective.
production from the field began from well Confirmation of our first PSC in the BA-05.
After a period of multi-rate testing DRC is a very important first step to of this well, the other producers were commencing a full scale exploration brought on-stream sequentially over the programme in the country.
In total, six development of a 360 kilometre 2D seismic programme wells have been drilled on the field, five was completed during the year and producers and one water injector.
Republic of Congo Brazzaville Angola In March 2008, SOCO Exploration and Activity on the Cabinda Onshore North Production Congo SA SOCO EPC Block, in which SOCO Cabinda Limited entered into an agreement to farm-out holds a 17% participating interest, had 8.5% of its interest in the offshore Marine been suspended pending review of XI Block to Petrovietnam, subject to the security situation.
The seismic approval of the appropriate regulatory acquisition programme is now expected authorities of the Government of Congo to commence in the second quarter of Brazzaville.
SOCO EPC will remain as the 2009 with approximately 1,300 kilometres operator with a 29% working interest in of 2D and 100 square kilometres of 3D the Block.
SOCO EPC is finalising the seismic planned.
10 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Financials Financials Financials possibly be ready to drill the first well on Corporate the onshore DRC Nganzi Block.
We also Disposal of Yemen Interests expect to conduct the largest 2D seismic The Company completed the sale in April survey in the Companys history in the 2008 of its interest in the East Shabwa Cabinda North Block.
Preliminary Development Area to Sinochem Petroleum exploratory activities will commence Limited for approximately $465 million.
on the new licences in Marine XIV in the The proceeds from the disposal have first quarter of 2009 and the Albertine strengthened the Companys balance Graben following the award of the sheet and provide funding for its existing Presidential Decree.
exploration and development projects and other opportunities that may arise.
Net cash from operating activities SOCOs track record of delivering projects Details of the disposal can be found in from inception through the exploration the Financial Review section of this report.
and development phases to first oil has clearly been established.
Our strong The Board $45.1m partnerships within Vietnam have enabled John Snyder has officially notified the our ambitions for the CNV field to be Board that he will retire at the upcoming realised and we now look forward to Annual General Meeting from his role continue to establish similar relationships Cash and cash equivalents at as a Non-Executive Director.
John was in the Africa Region and to targeting 31 December 2008 instrumental in the formation and listing further exploration and development of SOCO and has been a valuable success, in both Vietnam and Africa.
contributor to the Board and its Committees as an independent Non- $303.4m We have never been stronger financially Executive Director since his appointment and never had a more prospective in 1997.
Further details can be found in portfolio.
We have delivered on our the Corporate Governance Report on promises in the past and fully expect pages 38 to 43. to do so again in 2009.
We trust your patience will be well rewarded as the Outlook industry rebounds and the resilience 2009 is set to be another significant year of our Company is demonstrated.
First and foremost, the development programme at TGT will gather momentum as it progresses toward first oil targeted for mid-2011.
Concurrently in Vietnam, work will commence immediately on TGD to reprocess the 3D seismic over the Rui fide Sousa appraisal area in anticipation of drilling Chairman a well in 2010.
In Africa, we will start a multi-well exploration and appraisal programme on Ed Story Marine XI offshore Congo Brazzaville and President and Chief Executive Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 11
