Business review Chief Executive Officers review Our role as leaders in test and measurement is to enable our customers to develop and validate their most successful products and services, not just from a technological perspective but also to ensure the greatest return on their investment.
Bill Burns Chief Executive Officer As we look back over the past year, customers in most brings value to our customers and represent a distinct segments of the telecommunications industry spent more strategic advantage for Spirent.
This was particularly true as the end of the fourth quarter approached.
Network The financial performance of the Company reflects equipment manufacturers remained focused on operational improvements undertaken through outsourced profitability and growth as competition intensified.
manufacturing, design improvements and focus on driving Restructuring across the telecommunications industry had efficiency throughout all aspects of our business.
Our cash an impact not only on major wireline network equipment generation and profitability allows us to invest in the areas manufacturers, but also mobile equipment suppliers and most critical to the success of our customers.
At the same service providers.
These factors are contributing to an time, we have an agile business which is able to react uncertain outlook in 2009, although it is expected that quickly to developments in our markets.
In addition, we research and development investments are unlikely to be have already taken action in the first quarter of 2009 to reduced to the same levels as other areas of spending.
reduce Spirents cost base by an annualised 8.2 million.
While network operators wireless and Ethernet based Major customers view 2009 as a year of decreased broadband services experienced strong year-on-year activity, with few seeing upside before 2010.
Service growth, revenues for traditional wireline services declined.
providers and network equipment manufacturers will Service providers and network equipment manufacturers prioritise their overall spending but will invest in key continue to invest in areas of growth aimed at ensuring technology development areas to ensure their future their future.
Test requirements in these growth areas have success.
This will drive demand for our test solutions become even more critical as service providers are driven despite the challenging economic environment.
to deploy highly complex converged networks delivering differentiated voice, video, data and next-generation Our role as leaders in test and measurement is to enable mobile networks, that include an array of GPS and location our customers to develop and validate their most based services.
The need for testing todays, as well as successful products and services, not just from a tomorrows, equipment and networks is driven by the technological perspective but also to ensure the greatest requirement to achieve uncompromised performance and return on their investment.
Spirents financial strength and scalability while delivering superior Quality of Service and diversified solutions portfolio will be key to defending and Experience across the telecommunication infrastructure.
expanding our market share as well as developing new opportunities.
We remain realistic in facing the challenges Our global reach and world-class sales and service resulting from the current worldwide economic downturn organisations allow Spirent to partner closely with our and we believe that Spirent enters this year well placed to customers, enabling research and development face the market uncertainties ahead.
efficiencies through leadership in test methodologies and automation.
Spirents products and services serve a wide range of technologies, from wired to wireless, from development laboratories to live networks, from chip manufacturers to enterprise customers.
Our strong Bill Burns customer relationships and broad solutions portfolio Chief Executive Officer Spirent Communications plc 4 Annual Report 2008
