Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 01 Chief Executives Statement 5 SSEs values are: safety, service, efficiency, sustainability, excellence and teamwork.
Ian Marchant Chief Executive companies in the energy sector.
How are stations and the operation of electricity Purpose and Strategy they responding to climate change?
How are and gas networks and in SSEs other SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy they responding to rising global demand for energy-related services.
people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
energy as supplies of oil and gas deplete?
In line with this, its strategy has been and How are they helping to secure energy As SSEs investment programme, expected will continue to be the delivery of sustained supplies and make them more reliable?
to be around 1.3bn in 2008 09, gathers pace, real growth in the dividend payable to How are they helping customers to use less the growth in its modern and diverse asset shareholders through the efficient operation energy?
SSE believes these are the right base should continue, reinforcing its position of, and investment in, a balanced range of questions and that its strategy and priorities as the UKs broadest-based energy company.
regulated and non-regulated energy and are delivering the right answers.
This, in turn, should enable SSE to maintain utility businesses.
its track record of dividend growth in the The days of meeting an unchecked second decade of this century as should Within this strategic framework, SSE will demand for energy through monolithic continuing profit growth based on continuous continue to focus on enhancing and creating carbon-intensive power stations are improvements in operations from which value for shareholders from its energy and coming to an end.
Increasingly the customers will benefit.
Through ongoing  activities in the UK emphasis will be on energy efficiency, responsible pricing and sector-leading and Ireland and from the development of renewables, cleaned up fossil fuel plant service delivery, SSE expects its number an international renewable energy business.
SSE is active in all of customers to continue to grow.
of these areas and preparing for this Implementation of the strategy will continue profound change.
In uncertain financial times, there is one to be founded on SSEs well-established question being posed by many investors: financial principles.
These principles are: SSEs primary focus for shareholders will which companies provide an unambiguous delivery of sustained real dividend growth: be on delivering sustained real growth in commitment to, and focus on, sustained effective management of core businesses: the dividend, and the changing nature of real dividend growth, backed up by a track rigorous analysis to ensure investments energy production is why the acquisition record of having delivered it in the past are well-founded and, where appropriate, of Airtricity should help to maintain its track and the means to deliver it in the future?
innovative: maintenance of a strong balance record of growth during the second decade SSE believes that is the right question, and sheet: deployment of a selective and of this century.
So, too, should the scale that, with its commitment to sustained real disciplined approach to acquisitions: and use of the investment opportunities which that dividend growth, it is one of those companies.
of purchase in the market of the companys acquisition and SSEs established businesses In line with that, its priority for 2008 09 is to own shares as the benchmark against which and new ventures have created.
deliver its target of at least 4% real growth financial decisions are taken.
in the dividend payable to shareholders.
Priorities for 2008 09 and Beyond Future Environment For this reason, SSEs continuing focus This strategy and these principles have during 2008 09 will be on the efficient and been shown to be robust in a wide variety of timely delivery of investments in renewable financial and operational conditions and have energy, other electricity generation, led to SSE becoming the UKs broadest-based electricity and gas networks and gas storage.
SSE will continue to adhere The value created from these investments to them in the future.
will be complemented by the identification and delivery of enhanced operational That future will be different.
Over the next performance in the management of power decade, key questions will be asked of Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 The right question The International Energy Agency IEA said in November 2007 that it believed that by 2030 global demand for energy could be more than 50% above current levels.
At the same time, those resources are limited: known reserves of oil are expected to last only to around the middle of this century: and the amount of gas is also finite.
Reserves of coal, the most carbon-intensive of the main fossil fuels, are believed to last for at least another two centuries.
The right question for SSE is how is it responding to rising global demand for energy so it is able to provide the energy people need in a sustainable way?
HOW DO WE RESPOND TO RISING GLOBAL ENERGY DEMAND?
SSEs priority as an electricity generator is to maintain a diverse portfolio of efficient power stations and avoid dependency on any single primary fuel source.
This diversity also enables SSE to manage the risks associated with primary fuel procurement at times of volatile and rising energy prices.
In May 2007, the Energy White Paper pointed out that the UK will need substantial investment in new generation capacity over the next two decades.
It also pointed out that the UKs diverse generation mix avoids exposure to the risks associated with heavy dependency on a single fuel or technology type, helps to maintain secure supplies of energy and provides the countrys electricity system with the flexibility to accommodate variations in demand and to respond to changes in fossil fuel prices.
To meet these objectives, SSE is investing in a number of fossil-fuelled, renewable and energy-technology projects including: constructing a new 840 megawatt MW CCGT power station at Marchwood near Southampton: proposing a 470MW extension to the existing CCGT Barking power station near Dagenham: planning an additional CCGT power station: extending the life of Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge coal-fired power stations by fitting flue gas desulphurisation FGD equipment: building a new 100MW hydro station at Glendoe near Loch Ness: acquiring Airtricity and Slough Heat and Power, the UKs largest dedicated biomass facility: and investing in a range of emerging technologies.
Key to responding to rising global energy demand is renewable energy.
As the EU Commissioner for Energy stated In a time of growing oil prices and climate change concerns, renewable energy sources is an opportunity that we cannot miss.
This will help to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions and strengthen our security of supply.
Against this background, SSE is seeking to enhance and create value for shareholders from the development of an international business focusing on renewable energy.
Rannoch hydro electric power station Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 7 3.0bn investment in onshore wind, offshore wind and hydro electric schemes in the UK and Ireland, and in renewable energy in new markets and technologies over the next five years.
Highlight Airtricity In addition to its obvious environmental credentials, renewable energy also significantly reduces SSEs exposure to escalating prices for fossil fuels for the straightforward reason that in the case of hydro and wind the fuel used to generate electricity is indigenous and free.
Following the acquisition of Airtricity in February 2008, and a review of its renewable generation projects, SSE now expects to have around 4,000MW of renewable generation capacity in the UK and Ireland in 2013, doubling in five years its renewable capacity in those countries.
SSE expects its portfolio in 2013 will comprise: 1,500MW of hydro electric schemes: around 2,000MW of onshore wind farms: over 250MW of offshore wind farms: and around 250MW of wasteto-energy and biomass developments.
10.5 gigawatts GW of electricity generation capacity, including its share of joint ventures, making SSE the second largest electricity generator in the UK.
