Overview of the year Chief Executives review The actions we have taken this year, together with our expansion projects to increase value added production, give us a solid platform from which to grow our business in the years ahead.
Delivering on our strategy 2008 was a year of considerable activity and progress for Tate & Lyle.
We successfully achieved a number of important steps to reshape our business in line with our strategy to build a stronger value added business on a low-cost commodity base.
We simplified and fide-layered the Groups organisational structure into four divisions, each reporting to the Chief Executive.
A new management structure was put in place and key hires made to lead the Sucralose and Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas divisions.
We removed substantial risks from the Group by exiting markets European wheat and Canadian and Mexican sugar where we could not hedge to an acceptable level our exposure to raw material and commodity pricing volatility and regulation.
We continued to implement our four-year major capital investment programme to support long-term growth, which we expect will be completed by March 2009.
We took actions to restructure our international sugar trading activities to reduce future earnings volatility and re-focus management priorities to ensure that this years result is not repeated.
We continued to grow those areas of our business of key strategic focus and investment.
Our core value added food ingredients business achieved a profit of 89 million, a 13% increase over the prior year, while sales of SPLENDA Sucralose increased by 6% both in constant currency and new product launches featuring SPLENDA Sucralose increased by 30% over the prior year.
The process of reshaping the Groups business is now largely complete.
The actions we have taken this year, together with our expansion projects to increase value added production, give us a solid platform from which to grow our business and to improve further the quality of the Groups earnings.
6 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 New management structure Acquisitions and divestments Following the Groups reshaping process we have We sold three businesses during the year to exit markets simplified and fide-layered the Groups organisational where we could not hedge to an acceptable level our structure.
The Group now consists of four distinct exposure to raw material and commodity pricing volatility business divisions, each reporting to the Chief Executive: and regulation.
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: Sucralose: and Sugars.
These divisions We completed the sale of our sugar operations in Canada are supported by our Research and Development team, and Mexico on 22 April 2007 and 28 December 2007 which also reports to the Chief Executive, and other respectively, and the sale of five of our European starch Central functions.
plants, including all four that processed wheat, on 1 October 2007.
The unprecedented increase in European To drive our business forward, we have appointed cereal prices since last summer, up by more than 80% new heads for three of the four divisions.
Matt Wineinger since May 2007 when we announced we were in joined Tate & Lyle in March 2008 and will take over from advanced discussions over the sale of our European Lynn Grider as President, Food & Industrial Ingredients, starch plants, and the recent decline in the Mexican Americas after he retires at the end of June 2008.
Matt sugar price following changes introduced by the North has worked for a number of major companies in the American Free Trade Agreement, underline our rationale food sector, most recently as President of Swift & Cos for selling these businesses.
Australian meat division, and before that at Cargill, where he held a number of senior roles in sales and marketing.
We strengthened our value added offering during the year through the acquisition of an 80% holding in the German Olivier Rigaud, who has worked for Tate & Lyle for speciality food ingredients group, G. C. HAHN & Co. Hahn 19 years in our European food ingredients business, on 15 June 2007.
Hahn has a leadership position in dairy has been promoted to President, Food & Industrial and convenience food stabiliser systems and, when Ingredients, Europe.
combined with Tate & Lyles existing products, systems and applications skills, provides our customers with a Ian Bacon continues as Chief Executive, Sugars.
Karl Kramer joined Tate & Lyle in April and will become Major capital investment programme President, Sucralose from 1 June 2008.
He joins us nearing completion from Givaudan, the flavour company, prior to which he The expansion of our Sagamore corn wet mill in Indiana worked for the NutraSweet Kelco division of Monsanto.
was commissioned during the year.
This increases capacity for a variety of value added starches used by The four heads of the divisions, together with customers in dairy, beverages, baking, snacks and John Nicholas, Group Finance Director: Robert Gibber, dressings.
The expansion of our Loudon, Tennessee, Company Secretary and General Counsel: and plant, which is adding capacity for value added ingredients, TM Dr Bob Fisher, President, Research and Development, ethanol and substrate for the Bio-PDO joint venture will sit on a new Group Executive Committee, which with DuPont, was effectively completed at the end of the I will chair.
This Committee will replace the existing financial year.
Our unique bio-refining joint venture plant Group Management Committee.
continues to operate well and is currently undertaking market-proving activities with sales across several categories, This is a strong new management team with the including polymerisation for clothing and carpets, and direct appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to drive applications in cosmetics, deodorants and as fide-icing fluid.
forward each division and the Group as a whole in the years ahead.
The construction of the new corn wet mill in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and the biomass boiler at the cane sugar refinery in London are progressing satisfactorily and we continue to anticipate that both will be mechanically complete by the end of March 2009.
The Fort Dodge plant will produce industrial starches and ethanol.
Its completion will enable a reconfiguration of finishing capacities in the USA to optimise production, particularly at the Sagamore plant, which will now focus predominantly on value added food ingredients.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 7 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Overview of the year Chief Executives review The new Singapore SPLENDA Sucralose facility was Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe saw profits increase commissioned during the year and we were able to prove by 3% to 41 million a reduction of 1% in constant the capacity of the plant more smoothly and much currency.
This was a pleasing result given the very earlier than expected.
significant disruption faced by the business during the year as the non-manufacturing operations were By March 2009, Tate & Lyle will have completed a completely re-engineered following the sale of five of its four-year programme of major capital investment to starch plants.
A strong performance in the first half year support long-term growth.
Over the first three years of was offset in the second half year by significantly higher this programme, capital expenditure totalled more than corn costs.
In Europe, the ability to pass increased costs 500 million above ongoing levels of depreciation.
The total through to customers is limited for those products that investment programme has raised capital expenditure to have a clear link to the price of sugar, although we were levels above 250 million in each of these three years.
able to pass on more of the increase than we had In the year ended 31 March 2008, capital expenditure expected.
The initial 8 million profit contribution from was 264 million, which was 2.6 times depreciation.
Hahn following its acquisition in June 2007 was ahead To complete the investment programme, the Groups of our expectations.
We continue to work with our total capital expenditure forecast for the year ending partners in the Eaststarch joint venture in Central and 31 March 2009 is 200 million.
Beyond this, we believe Eastern Europe on how we can generate optimal that we can adequately invest going forward with capital returns for shareholders.
expenditure running at around 1.25 times depreciation.
Sugars profits were 24 million, down from 60 million in International sugar trading the prior year.
The European sugar refining business was The performance in our international sugar trading profitable in a market made difficult by the implementation operations was very disappointing, more so after the of the EU sugar regime reform.
We were delighted with excellent performance in the prior year.
This business the reaction to our announcement that our UK retail suffered from a mark-to-market charge for increased sugars range will move to Fairtrade by the end of 2009, freight costs, which were hedged in the first half of the and we are investing in reducing our carbon footprint year, and lower trading profits.
We have reviewed its through a new biomass boiler at the London refinery activities in light of the changes to our Sugars asset to help drive efficiency and differentiation of cane sugar.
base and the reforms of the EU sugar regime.
We have A number of other projects, including cost-saving restructured the business and re-focused management initiatives by the operations based at our London refinery priorities to ensure that this years result is not repeated.
totalling 7 million on an annualised basis, were delivered during the year.
Despite the challenges it faces, our Overview of business performance European sugar refining operation remains a good business The Groups profit before tax, adjusted to exclude within an evolving industry and we are increasingly positive exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible for the future once the EU sugar regime reforms are fully assets, at 244 million was 11% lower 7% in constant implemented in 2010.
The molasses business performed currency than the prior year.
The reduction in profit before strongly, benefiting from a sharp increase in EU animal tax was more than accounted for by a 9 million operating feed ingredient prices.
However, this was insufficient loss in international sugar trading from a 22 million profit to compensate for the loss of 9 million incurred by in the prior year, and an 11 million adverse impact international sugar trading, which was especially from exchange translation.
disappointing when compared with a profit of 22 million in the previous year.
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas, our largest division, representing almost 60% of the Groups adjusted operating profit before central costs, performed strongly achieving a fourth consecutive year of record profits.
Operating profit of 186 million increased by 6% 13% in constant currency.
Both value added and primary product lines performed well, the latter assisted by firmer by-product prices.
We were pleased by the outcome of the 2008 calendar year pricing round, which has resulted in modest margin improvements.
As expected, ethanol profits returned to more normal levels reflecting the impact of increased industry production and higher corn costs, following the very strong profits achieved in the prior year.
8 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Sales of SPLENDA Sucralose of 148 million were Safety 1% ahead of the prior year 6% in constant currency.
Tate & Lyle is committed to providing safe and healthy New product launches were some 30% ahead of the prior conditions for its employees, contractors and visitors.
Following the doubling of capacity at the McIntosh, The Group has no higher priority than safety and we Alabama, facility last year, and the successful commissioning target continuous improvement to reduce recordable of the Singapore facility this year, we have completed the injury and lost-time accident rates to zero in every plant.
major expansion projects for sucralose and will need only We measure and report our safety performance in limited further capital investment in the coming years.
calendar years and, for 2007, most Tate & Lyle locations Operating profit for the year at 66 million was 7% lower equalled or improved their 2006 performance, including 3% in constant currency affected by fixed costs from 15 that reported no lost-time accidents and ten that the second plant and also by legal costs of 6 million reported no recordable injuries for the year.
2007 3 million incurred in defending against alleged infringement of our patents in the US International Trade Central costs Commission ITC.
This case went to trial in February A review of central functions across the Group was 2008.
The proceedings allege infringement of patented completed during the year in light of the significant sucralose manufacturing technology in respect of sucralose reshaping of the business.
Central costs decreased manufactured in China and imported into the USA.
So far, from 35 million to 31 million.
This decrease reflects seven of the 27 respondents in the ITC matter have been a 1 million reduction in underlying costs.
There was held in default by the judge and are now barred from a one-off benefit totalling 7 million from insurance and contesting the case.
The judges initial and non-binding reallocation of costs to the divisions offset by costs determination is expected in June 2008, leading to a final relating to the realignment of the Groups management ruling by the ITC in October 2008. and organisational structure.
Our review of central costs realised savings of 3 million in 2008, benefits which European sugar regime should double by 2010.
Our European sugar business has been operating in a highly competitive market while the EU sugar regime Conclusion undergoes reform.
The target of the reforms is to 2008 was a year of considerable activity and progress eliminate 6.0 million tonnes of quota production through for Tate & Lyle as we reshaped our business in line with a process of voluntary surrender from which full-time cane our strategy to build a stronger value added business sugar refiners are excluded.
Following amendments to the on a low-cost commodity base.
Implementing so much EU sugar restructuring fund agreed in September 2007, change while also managing the impact of significant on 8 May 2008, the EU announced that 5.65 million movements in global commodity prices and the tonnes out of the 6.0 million tonne target had been consequences of the EU sugar regime reforms has only surrendered.
While there is still surplus sugar to be been possible thanks to the dedication, diligence and absorbed by the market, the reforms aim of reducing commitment of our people, for which I would like to supply is substantially complete.
There will be two express my sincere gratitude.
reductions in the EU reference price of refined sugar and in raw material costs, which will be implemented in We expected 2008 to be a year of transition and that October 2008 and October 2009.
However, we expect proved to be the case.
With our strategic reshaping largely that market equilibrium will be restored during the second complete, our priority is clear to deliver our longer-term half of our 2009 financial year, which should lead to target of a return on net operating assets of 20%.
With all progressively firmer refining margins.
We believe cane that we have achieved this year, and with the new sugar refineries have a superior economic model management structure in place, we now have the platform in the post-reform EU market.
from which that longer-term target can be delivered and we are committed to that goal.
Energy Energy costs for the continuing operations were Iain Ferguson CBE 150 million, an increase of 2% over the prior year Chief Executive 6% in constant currency.
We have covered over half the 21 May 2008 costs for the 2009 financial year but still anticipate costs will increase by 35 million from higher prices and also higher consumption because of capacity expansion.
Rising fossil fuel prices increase the benefits of our investments in biomass boilers under construction in London and Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 9 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
