212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 2 Chief Executives statement Strong growth across the Group Elsewhere in Services, Tesco Personal Finance TPF, which celebrates its The breadth of the Group and the strength of our business model tenth anniversary this year, has got back to a faster rate of growth, driven by have enabled Tesco to deliver another year of double-digit sales, a strong sequence of new product launches and a 20% rise in online sales.
profit and earnings per share growth.
TPF has also weathered a difficult financial services market well with falling bad debts and credit card arrears.
But for the impact of last years These results demonstrate that Tesco has again made strong progress.
floods on household insurance claims, we would have seen strong profit Sales, profits and returns have grown well, the growth has been broadly growth from TPF.
based and we are delivering on our commitments to shareholders.
Our work with communities and the environment has also seen Tesco I believe these numbers also clearly show that our new businesses are make encouraging progress.
To make sure this work gets the right focus coming of age, after years of patient investment.
I am pleased about that and priority in the business, we made an important change in 2007 by because the breadth this gives the Group, combined with the strength of adding it to our four-part strategy for growth so making Community our business model, means that we are able to cope well with changing the fifth element.
As the first change of any kind to Tescos strategy market conditions and at the same time make the necessary investment in more than a decade, this represents a very significant commitment.
in our future growth in the United States, China and Tesco Direct.
More detail about our initiatives in this area can be found elsewhere in this report, in our separate Corporate Responsibility Review and on our International is an important part of this.
It now makes more than 700m website www.
of trading profit, which is about the same as the whole of Tesco did a decade ago, and it contributed over half of the growth in Group trading We are making strides towards a revolution in green consumption by profit in the year.
We have built a new Tesco in the last ten years, serving incentivising the environmental option and making it affordable.
We do not markets with hundreds of millions of customers and I believe its growth start from the position that it is a choice between growing or being green: prospects are even better than the originals were back then.
that somehow we will give up a bit of potency in the focus of the business in pursuing these things.
My strong belief is that this is not the case, and We saw excellent progress across the international business.
Sales and that being green will be a good way to grow and add value for shareholders profits grew well, returns rose again but the most striking improvements whilst discharging our responsibilities to other stakeholders.
That is why came in the strengthening positions we have in our chosen markets.
Tesco has taken a lead on these matters.
We added over six and a half million square feet of new selling space overseas in the year over three times as much as in the UK.
Our focus on Some key milestones passed this year included the early achievement combining this organic growth with selective acquisitions is also delivering of our target to reduce the number of free carrier bags issued to in Poland, the Czech Republic and Malaysia with more to come.
UK customers by 25% in a little over 12 months saving well over one billion bags, far more than any other retailer.
We are on track to save Our international business now has the scale, the competitiveness and two billion this year.
We have also halved our energy use per square foot the momentum it needs to be a key driver of our growth for the long-term of selling space since 2000, two years ahead of target.
We have invested because our operations in most of these markets can be two, three or more 25m in creating a Sustainable Consumption Institute at the University times larger than they are today.
of Manchester, bringing together world-leading experts from various disciplines.
The Institute will help lead the way to a low-carbon economy We have made solid progress in the UK.
It hasnt been an easy year for our and society.
We plan to begin a programme of carbon labelling of our core business recovering competitors and cautious consumers made sales products in the early weeks of the current year, using our experience of growth harder to come by.
But with strong productivity, mix and margin putting clear, useful information in front of customers to help them make control, we delivered good results and after a slower end to the year, we informed decisions about the CO2 implications of their product choices.
have come into the new financial year on better form, trading ahead of the industry and a little ahead of our planned performance range.
In summary: Tesco is about growth and we are confident of sustaining strong growth I believe we are entering the kind of market conditions where Tescos in the future: strengths stand out: where customers will be looking to us to help them we do this by following the customer: as they change, we change cope with higher bills for mortgages and fuel as well as higher taxes.
and this means our growth is broadly based, as our new businesses come As always, our focus will therefore be on improving their shopping trip through to scale and profitability: whether its in lower prices, shorter queues at checkouts or healthier it also means we can carry the costs of investing now in the new products products to feed the family.
Customers recognise the improvements and businesses which will drive our long-term growth: we are making.
at the same time we can deliver improving returns and tangible benefits for shareholders: Whilst we have seen pleasing progress in Non-Food, this has been against we are meeting our responsibilities to other stakeholders by playing an a background of more subdued consumer spending in some product innovative part in tackling some of the social and environmental categories.
Nevertheless, sales grew faster than the core business, challenges we all face: profitability was strong and we saw good market share gains.
Our core we have delivered strong results by making shopping better for general merchandise categories, which are less sensitive to the economic customers: and cycle, grew well and we saw robust growth in newer areas such as Tesco is equipped to cope with changing market conditions and, whilst electricals, furniture and DIY, helped in part by an excellent first full year the current global economic background is a concern, of trading in Tesco Direct, our online and catalogue non-food business.
we begin the new financial year with confidence.
Our Services businesses had another good year again demonstrating the growing breadth of the Group supported by our increasing strength as a leading internet retailer.
Dotcom was on excellent form, with sales in our online business again up by over 30%.
Tesco Telecoms performed well, driven by a very good performance in Tesco Mobile, our joint venture with Terry Leahy O2, which moved into profit for the first time in the year.
Chief Executive To view the full announcement visit: Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
