Directors Report Chief Executive Ofcers statement Manny Fontenla-Novoa Chief Executive officer 8 www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW The 2008 financial period was the new Groups first full year of trading and a period in which we achieved a strong financial performance and made significant progress against our strategic agenda.
We have achieved industry-leading margins, demonstrating the strength of our management team and the exibility of our business model.
Overall, our results for the year demonstrate that, through our merger, we have created a strong company with a team that has the knowledge and capability to read the market and respond accordingly.
We have fully integrated our merged business and a number of strategic acquisitions, over-delivered against our cost reduction targets, actively managed capacity, and successfully navigated our way through a period of unprecedented oil price volatility.
Recent research and the high load factors we are currently experiencing give us confidence that consumers remain intent on taking their holidays.
We believe our strong financial position, together with the increased synergy savings and contingency measures we have put in place, will enable us to sustain a market-leading performance throughout a challenging 2009.
We are targeting further growth in margins in 2009 and 2010, and operating profit of 480 million in 2010.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 Directors Report Chief Executive Ofcers statement continued Pro forma financial results 393. m in the previous year, reecting the we have hedged 100% of our fuel Thomas Cook has reported a strong set planned expenditure on the share buyback requirements for winter 2008 2009 and of results.
This demonstrates the quality of programme and acquisitions.
95% for summer 2009, ensuring certainty management, the strength of our asset-light of pricing: Operational exibility, cost base and hedging business model and our operational and The exibility within our asset-light business we have hedged 98% of our dollar and cost exibility.
It was achieved against the model has been critical during the past 9 % of our euro requirements for winter background of the merger integration and period and we have improved our ability 2008 2009 and summer 2009. the continued development of the Group to underpin our future performance in through significant strategic acquisitions.
Merger synergies more challenging trading conditions.
The integration of our operations since the Group pro forma revenue for the twelve months The resilience we believe we have in the merger between Thomas Cook and MyTravel to 30 September 2008 was 8,809.8m 200 : current difficult trading conditions is on 19 June 200 has been highly successful, 8 8.5m, an increase of 11.8% on the based on that exibility, the strength of and we have been operating on a single prior year period.
Excluding the impact of our businesses post-merger, and capacity platform from management, commercial and translation and acquisitions, Group revenue rationalisation throughout the industry.
technological perspectives for over a year.
This reects a decrease Capacity reductions in the UK market, for in UK and North America revenue, as a example, amount to approximately 25% over By accelerating synergy delivery, we realised result of planned capacity cuts, offset by the last two years through our actions and total savings of 142m in the 2008 pro forma an increase in Northern Europe.
Underlying those of other market participants.
period, of which 139m were additional revenue in Continental Europe and Airlines savings during the period.
The majority of We are taking advantage of our buying Germany was broadly at year on year.
the savings came from the UK business.
power to manage accommodation costs, We delivered a 49.8% increase in Group profit which represent over 30% of revenue.
We Looking forward, we now expect to deliver from operations to 3 5.9m 200 : 244.2m.
are confident that negotiations with our new synergy targets of: The Group operating profit margin rose suppliers will result in prices no higher than 35.5% from 3.1% to 4.2% last year, despite last years levels across the Group this year, 185m of annual synergy savings a significant increase in fuel costs.
This despite adverse movements in currency.
by the end of the 2009 financial year strong result reected our ability to adapt compared with the previous accelerated The ability to adjust our cost base for potential to changing demand by reducing capacity, target of 155m by 2009: changes in demand is also important, changing our product mix, cost discipline, particularly in the current market conditions.
a total of 215m of savings by 2010 and fuel and currency hedging, as well as Only 10% of our group-wide hotel capacity compared with the original target our delivery of significant synergy savings.
is committed for summer 2009, which of 155m by 2010.
Pro forma EBITDA profit from operations before gives us considerable scope to make further depreciation and amortisation increased by Strategy capacity adjustments: and in the UK, around 3.
Pro forma We have made significant progress against 89% of our tour operator ying requirements adjusted earnings per share increased by 40.9% our strategy this year, both through actions are undertaken by our own eet, allowing us to 24.1p 200 : 1.
considerable exibility to cut capacity without which have optimised our existing business, impacting our own airlines operations.
and through acquisitions which have The segmental performance is reported in detail allowed us to achieve a step-change in in the Operational Review on pages 28 to 3.
Tight control of all costs is a fundamental our performance, and these are set out part of the Thomas Cook business model.
Pro forma financial position in more detail on pages 14 to 2.
Thomas Cooks nancing position is robust.
In addition, we have developed contingency Share buyback In May 2008, we replaced the existing debt plans to cut our overhead costs further In December 200, we announced plans for facility with a new credit facility amounting to should tougher market conditions prevail.
a 290m 3 5m share buyback programme 1.4bn, of which 1.0bn is available for Hedging and the programme was launched in March immediate use for the Groups general Fuel costs represent approximately 8% of 2008, following approval at an EGM held on corporate purposes, including acquisitions revenue and successful hedging has been 12 March 2008.
In proposing the programme, and the share buyback programme that we an important element of managing this cost.
the Board believed that the repurchase of have now completed.
Through a mixture of swaps and options, we shares was the best way to return value to In view of the current uncertainties in avoided the worst of the high crude oil prices shareholders, while at the same time the credit markets, we took the prudent in the summer of 2008 as well as realising improving earnings per share and balance approach in October 2008, to draw down some benets when prices fell.
fully our available facility thus ensuring now locked in our fuel costs for the current At the close of business on 30 September optimal financial certainty for the Group.
2008, the Group had purchased a total of Operating cash ow was 220.2m in the We are taking a similar cautious approach to 10, 124, 30 shares for cancellation, at a total twelve months to 30 September 2008, future costs and our policy is to hedge fuel cost of 2 3.5m, excluding commission.
Of compared with 215.3m in the previous and foreign exchange between 12 and 18 these shares, 48,595,331 were purchased year.
At 30 September 2008, net debt was months in advance of the expected from Arcandor AG, as a result of which 292.5m, compared with net funds of expenditure.
In line with this: Arcandors holding was 52.8% of the Group.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Group Executive Board From left to right: Standing: Angus Porter, Jrgen Bser, Thomas Dring, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Ralf Teckentrup, Michael Friisdahl, Mike Cutt and Ian Derbyshire.
Sitting: Peter Fankhauser, Pete Constanti, Alexis Coles-Barrasso, Ludger Heuberg, Sam Weihagen and Derek Woodward.
See page 50 for biographies The share buyback programme concluded Outlook and have increased synergy targets for 2010 A range of initiatives within our power to a total of 215m with 185m expected by on 9 October 2008.
Up to that date, a total underpins our confidence in our prospects the end of the 2009 financial year.
of 120,059,11 shares were purchased for the current financial year.
Our business for cancellation at a total cost, excluding The combination of our management teams model allows us to ex capacity and product commission, of 289.9m.
Of these shares, long industry experience, a restructured mix well into the summer 2009 booking 55,42, 5 were purchased from Arcandor AG, marketplace, our own initiatives and trading cycle.
In addition to our own capacity maintaining its holding of 52.8% in the Group.
which has been in line with expectations management, we have seen capacity supports our confidence in our prospects for Management team rationalisation throughout the industry the full year.
We are targeting further growth This years impressive performance is the which gives us further confidence that we in margins in 2009 and 2010 and operating can trade successfully through the current result of the strong management team profit of 480m in 2010. conditions.
Capacity reductions in the UK working together and, in the newly enlarged market, for example, amount to approximately Thomas Cook business, being more capable 25% over the last two years, through our actions than ever of dealing effectively with the and those of other market participants.
Despite the backdrop of integration, our international team has been We have tight cost discipline throughout the determined that Thomas Cook should remain business.
We are negotiating with suppliers to resilient, continue to make great progress ensure that accommodation costs are no and put in place strong foundations upon higher than 200 2008 levels despite Manny Fontenla-Novoa which to build its future.
We are also hedging Chief Executive officer proud of the entire Thomas Cook team for fuel and currency against extreme volatility.
19 December 2008 what they have achieved this year and look In addition, we have developed contingency forward to working with them to go even plans to cut our overhead costs further should tougher market conditions prevail, further in 2009 and beyond.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
