04 Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review Dear shareholder, Dividend In these difficult economic conditions, the Board 2008 was a challenging year for all of Tomkins businesses.
considers that it is important to strike a balance between In the first half of the year, automotive OE and residential preserving balance sheet strength and providing a return construction markets were the weakest, while industrial, to shareholders.
Accordingly, the Board has decided to automotive aftermarket and non-residential construction propose a final dividend for 2008 of 2.00 cents per share, all posted good results.
During the second half, all of making a total dividend for the year of 13.02 cents per our markets weakened, with the speed of decline share.
For 2009, the Board has decided to target a total accelerating towards the end of the year.
All of our dividend of around 10 cents per share, subject to the geographic markets have experienced a slowdown, with prevailing conditions and market outlook.
Looking the worst declines concentrated in the western forward, the Board will seek to resume its progressive economies, most notably the US and Europe.
Two of our dividend policy from this rebased level as soon as results end markets, US automotive OE and residential and market conditions allow.
construction, saw their third year of significant decline.
Housing starts as measured by the NAHB and North Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on American automotive production as measured by CSM, 1 June 2009, the final dividend will be paid on 10 June 2009 light vehicle unit volumes fell by 33% and 16% to ordinary shareholders on the register as at the close of respectively over 2008.
Emerging economies also business on 8 May 2009. experienced a slowdown, affected by declines in consumer confidence and the availability of credit.
Highlights 2008 In February 2008, Tomkins initiated Project Eagle, a threeThe Group made good progress against its key priorities: year performance improvement programme to address Completed the divestment of the non-core businesses, the cost base and improve competitiveness.
In light Stant and Standard-Thomson.
of the current and expected market conditions, we have announced more extensive actions to reset our Completed three acquisitions: in India, Singapore and the manufacturing footprint to lower-cost locations and further US the latter with operations in China.
Signed a joint take advantage of opportunities in higher growth markets.
venture agreement in the Middle East for the These initiatives are referred to as Project Cheetah.
manufacture and distribution of non-residential Air Systems Components products.
Earlier in 2008, we announced our decision to present the Groups financial statements in US dollars, Announced and commenced implementation of our commencing in 2008.
This is the first Annual Report performance improvement initiative, Project Eagle, presented in this manner.
incorporating outsourcing of central functions, low-cost country sourcing, expansion of existing restructuring Results initiatives and strategic pricing initiatives.
Sales from continuing operations decreased by 6.3% to Identified further opportunities for restructuring our $5,515.9 million 2007: $5,886.1 million and adjusted manufacturing footprint under a new initiative, Project operating profit fell by 24.0% to $403.4 million 2007: Cheetah, to better position the Group for the future.
Introduced and expanded our range of new products including the energy recovery ventilator, the electroCash generated from operations was $628.7 million mechanical drive and the two speed variable vane 2007: $638.7 million.
Operating cash flow increased by oil pumps.
Maintained a strong balance sheet, supported by In 2008, the Group incurred a diluted loss per share on good working capital management and reductions continuing operations of 7.29 cents 2007: earnings per in capital expenditure.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share were 26.02 cents 2007: 37.14 cents.
David Newlands James Nicol Chairman Chief Executive Overview 05 Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review Strategy Non-residential construction 15.7% of Group sales US non-residential construction is expected to decline by We continue to focus on developing energy-saving around 20% on a square foot basis and around 15% on products.
With a focus on service to our customers and a value basis in 2009. distribution of our products, our capabilities and geographic footprint continue to expand across the Residential construction 9.0% of Group sales globe.
A summary of our strategic priorities and progress US residential construction is expected to continue its is set out on page 3. decline, with housing starts expected to decrease by around 30% in 2009.
Outlook Other markets include manufactured housing and The current economic and market conditions remain recreational vehicles and in total account for around challenging and uncertain, reducing visibility and making 3.3% of Group sales.
As a consequence of the market conditions, our trading Industrial in early 2009 has been adversely affected.
North America 18.7% of Group sales We believe that our strong market positions and the North American industrial markets, which remained strong resilience of our managers in cutting costs and improving in the first half of 2008 but deteriorated in the second efficiencies, coupled with our strong balance sheet will half and particularly the last quarter of 2008, are expected enable us to continue to mitigate the impact of these to continue to decline due to reduced economic and difficult end markets and generate cash whilst positioning industrial activity.
the Group for an eventual recovery in end markets.
Europe 5.6% of Group sales Industrial activity in Europe is expected to worsen further, Impairment with many European countries entering or continuing In June 2008, as a result of the continued deterioration in recession, coupled with continuing declines in in North American automotive OE and US residential export demand.
construction markets, the Group recognised a non-cash Rest of the world 5.8% of Group sales impairment of $175.1 million.
Management subsequently Industrial activity across the remainder of Tomkins reviewed the recoverability of assets of the Groups geographic markets is expected to weaken further, as all businesses in light of the continued weakness in the Groups regions continue to be affected by reduced global demand.
end markets, which was compounded by an increase in Markets in China, India and Brazil are expected to continue the discount rates that are required to be used for the to grow, albeit at a lower level than in recent years.
purpose of the impairment tests.
Additional fixed asset impairments were taken as a part of the decision to implement Project Cheetah to restructure the manufacturing Automotive aftermarket footprint of the Group.
As a consequence of these North America 10.3% of Group sales developments, a further non-cash impairment of The automotive aftermarket is expected to be broadly $167.3 million was recognised in the second half flat in 2009, with the effect of lower miles driven being of 2008. mitigated to some extent by lower gasoline prices and the ageing vehicle population which requires a higher As a result, the total impairment recognised during level of maintenance and expenditure on repair.
2008 was $342.4 million, of which $228.6 million related to goodwill and $113.8 million to property, plant and Europe 5.7% of Group sales equipment.
Goodwill allocated to Stackpole $157.2 million European markets are expected to experience similar and to Gates Mectrol $37.4 million was written off in its trends to North American markets.
entirety, and goodwill allocated to Selkirk was written Rest of the world 2.6% of Group sales down by $34.0 million to $38.3 million.
Stackpoles The Groups other geographic markets, most notably property, plant and equipment was written down by China and Brazil, are expected to soften and post $65.9 million.
Of the remaining $47.9 million impairment single-digit growth rates in 2009. of property, plant and equipment, $36.9 million related to other Industrial & Automotive businesses and $11.0 million to Building Products businesses.
Automotive OE North America 9.7% of Group sales Automotive OE production is currently expected to Customers, investors and employees decline by around 25% in 2009.
On behalf of the Board, we would like to thank all of our customers, suppliers, business partners and investors for Europe 5.9% of Group sales their continued support, especially under these difficult European automotive OE production is currently market conditions.
We look forward to continuing these expected to decline by around 20% in 2009. strong relationships over the forthcoming year.
Rest of the world 7.7% of Group sales The continued commitment and dedication of our The Groups other geographic markets, most notably employees enables us to achieve our objectives and we China, India and Brazil, are expected to post single-digit would like to thank them for their hard work and growth rates in 2009. commitment during the past year.
David Newlands James Nicol Chairman Chief Executive
