82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 1 4 09 09:37 Page 10 C H IEF EXEC UTIVES R EVIEW OF TH E YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 Groups costs such as branch rents are both unavoidable I N TR O DU CTIO N and fixed.
n response to the remarkable worsening of economic condiAs 2008 progressed, our markets began to experience tions during 2008, the Group changed its operational plans falling volume and, as expected, competition intensified, with a Iand priorities very significantly.
We had anticipated, and related deterioration in pricing conditions.
Despite this, our work warned shareholders about, a probable downturn in construction to protect gross margin, both by the optimisation of pricing and markets and had prepared contingency plans from the latter part by sourcing benefits, meant the Group was able to more than of 2007.
However, the speed and severity of the change in offset the market pricing pressure.
Gross margin for the Group conditions meant that we impleincreased by 0.2%, with gross mented those contingency plans margin in the merchanting division up more rapidly, and to a greater extent, by 0.3%, whilst in the retail division, than previously expected.
Our trade division continued its Our previous priorities each work to ensure we offer superior successfully pursued were to drive services and products to customers.
market-leading like-for-like LFL sales growth and operating margin Our research continues to indicate performance from each of our busithe success of this strategy, with our nesses: expand our branch networks: trade branch network rated as a and to enter adjacent channels for preferred source of building matethe distribution of construction materials in 12 out of the top 13 criteria rials.
These priorities evolved as used by customers when selecting construction markets slowed rapidly a merchant.
Although much new during 2008 to cost and debt reducwork in 2008 on continuous tion whilst maintaining our market improvement of our trade offer was leading LFL performance.
curtailed in view of the difficult market, we made good progress in improving product availability and PERFO RM AN CE service standards.
This superior The Groups financial results suffered offer was used by our sales and Geoff Cooper, Chief Executive in 2008 in comparison with the marketing teams as a platform to previous year.
launch targeted marketing initiaThroughout this annual report, consistent with our approach tives, particularly in market segments that continued to grow last year, the term adjusted has been used to signify that the in 2008, and we achieved good sales gains from new accounts without sacrificing gross margin.
effects of exceptional items have been excluded from the discloTrade division sales fell by 0.7%, with sales from new sures being made.
branch openings contributing 3.5% and LFL sales falling by The Group incurred an exceptional charge of 56.2m in 4.2%.
The latter comprised 6.4% of price inflation offset by a 2008 as a result of actions taken in response to the downturn in construction markets.
Both general and specialist For 2008, Group revenue was down very slightly to merchanting performed ahead of their respective markets, with 3,178.6m 2007: 3,186.7m, with adjusted operating profit LFL sales per working day down by 4.1% in general down 15.1% to 271.5m 2007: 319.9m, adjusted profit merchanting and 4.3% in specialist merchanting.
We estimate before tax down 22.5% to 202.5m 2007: 261.4m, and that our trade businesses have continued to record sales some adjusted earnings per share down by 17.9% to 123.0 pence 2% ahead of market rates, with market share gains coming 2007: 149.8 pence.
The revenue decrease of 0.3% comprised mainly from national competitors.
a decline of 4.5% in like-for-like sales, with network expansion Our retail businesses also achieved creditable revenue accounting for growth of 4.2%.
performance, growing both like-for-like and total market share Adjusted group operating margin fell by 1.5% to 8.5% for much of the year.
The Wickes and Tile Giant value-for-money 2007: 10.0% note 5c.
This primarily reflects a reduction in positioning in the home improvement market has become more overhead recovery from declining LFL sales.
Whilst variable costs attractive as consumers have found their discretionary have been cut back in line with falling activity levels, and some purchasing power eroded.
This was reflected in Wickes recent significant fixed costs have been eliminated, a proportion of the success in retaining its position in the annual Verdict retail 10 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR consultancy survey as the nations favourite DIY retailer.
Whilst the construction material market, in which our trade businesses higher priced competitors have increasingly used advertising won market share, has been contracting since January 2008, and promotions to boost customer perceptions of their price and is now running at an annual rate of decline of around 20%.
cutting credentials, we have maintained the more competitive The retail market followed a similar pattern and trend, with price position of our product ranges, and continue to attract an early and poor Easter trading period, a small recovery in the customers in greater numbers.
second quarter, and steps down in July and October.
Although LFL sales for the full year of Wickes core products were inflation in retail prices was more modest, at 1.7%, we estimate down by 4.8% and on the same basis showroom sales fell by the retail market to be currently running at an annual rate of 8.1%.
Tile Giant LFL sales were up by 5.5%.
Our showroom decline in volume terms of around 15%.
business was disrupted towards the end of the year by two Whilst the long-term prospects for growth in our markets significant events: stock liquidation from the administration and remain positive, the short and medium term outlook is sensiclosure of a major kitchen and bathroom competitor: and the tive to recessionary influences.
Our revenue sources are well administration and closure of our supplier of conservatories.
balanced with our businesses serving a diverse range of Overall LFL sales in the Retail Division were down 5.3% with customers performing a wide variety of construction work, 1.7% price inflation and a 7.0% volume decrease.
Network from infrastructure, new domestic, public sector and commerexpansion added 6.2% to retail sales which in total increased by cial construction, to repair maintenance and improvement 0.9%.
Retail Division operating margin decreased by 156 basis RMI works in all types of building.
This downturn was first points to 5.1% note 5c for 2008. felt in the new housing segment of our market, where volumes Group underlying net debt, used for covenantable purposes to these customers fell in 2008 by 40% over the prior year.
In fell by 14.9m note 34, despite an outflow of 125.9m on contrast, activity levels in RMI a sector where projects are capital expenditure.
This reduction in net debt was boosted by an often non-discretionary by nature - held up well for much of inflow of 23.1m from targeted working capital reductions from the year, and our general merchanting and retail businesses our supply chain projects.
In addition, for public sector buildings, The 125.9m net outflow on capital and acquisition expenactivity in new construction and RMI continued to grow, diture, comprised 97.0m spent on expanding the Group and despite some signs of reduced availability of funding to some 43.8m on maintenance capital items less 14.9m of asset public sector sponsors.
Since most work on new expansion opporWe monitor about 20 criteria that indicate the likely strength tunities was halted from early in the year, the majority of this of purchasing activity for construction materials, including indiexpenditure related to deals agreed in late 2007 and early cators for housing for example, mortgage approvals, commer- 2008 for which the related cash out flow mainly occurred in the cial and public sector new build architects enquiries and first half-year.
consumer markets propensity to spend on big ticket items.
Covenantable net debt is calculated after eliminating the Generally, trends for spending in our markets react some 6 to 9 80.2m impact of exchange rate movement that is any event months after a change is detected amongst these criteria.
The offset by an equal and opposite debit balance in fixed assets.
current downturn has followed this pattern, with market trends The improvement in covenantable net debt was achieved despite in the merchant and home improvement markets first reacting very significant pressures on our customers at the year-end in the spring of 2008 to the significant shift in housing market which caused a 3-day deterioration in outstanding debtor activity which occurred from October 2007. balances.
Most of the criteria we monitor showed a sharp fall in More importantly, our average net debt position over the year activity levels through the first 3 quarters of 2008, followed was tightly controlled against daily targets.
This helped us mitiby some stabilisation of activity, albeit at a very low level.
gate the impact on interest charges of the volatility in LIBOR Were the established pattern of lag between these criteria rates experienced throughout the year.
However with pressure on and our markets to be repeated, our markets might be operating profit, interest cover for the year, as calculated for expected to see a similar stabilisation, again at a low level, by covenant purposes, was 4.3 times compared to 5.4 times in the middle of 2009.
However, two significant reservations that must be applied to any forward view of our markets: firstly, 2007.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant, which is not affected by exchange rate movements was 2.8 times.
In both cases our the unprecedented nature of the current economic turmoil led covenant test level is 3.5 times.
We therefore remain in compliby a sudden withdrawal of credit and now involving an ance with our lending agreements and expect to do so increase in unemployment means that well established throughout 2009. economic relationships are less reliable: and secondly the level at which our markets stabilise is difficult to forecast whilst we are currently experiencing a rapid fall in purchasing M ARK ETS activity by customers.
Having grown for longer than we expected through 2007, the Our early sales performance in 2009 reflects these trends, trade market contracted in value terms from the second quarter with, LFL sales per trading day in our merchanting division for of 2008.
Market value in 2007 was supported by stronger than January down by 15.8% and LFL sales for retail for the first expected and rising inflation in building materials.
Despite five weeks of 2009, on a delivered basis, down by 12.2%.
We commodity and energy prices falling towards the end of the year, are continuing to outperform our markets, aided in particular by product cost and sales price inflation accelerated, ending the competitor closures and the success of Wickes new marketing year at an annual rate of 7 to 8%.
In volume terms, we estimate strategy, which uses TV and radio advertising rather than direct 11 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR marketing.
This has contributed to a strong start to the year for a peak in early 2008, with the trough being reached by the our showroom category sales through Wickes, and on an third quarter of 2009.
With inflation, market share gains, ordered basis Wickes overall LFL sales are up by 1.5%.
Meanmaturing performance from recently opened stores and full ingful interpretation of February sales trends has not been year effects, our annual revenues for 2009, compared to 2008, possible due to the effect of adverse weather conditions on are expected to decline by less than our peak to trough esticonstruction activity.
We have now established a pattern of out-performing In this scenario, with cost reduction plans already in place, markets for over 2 years, and expect to continue to do so.
For an expected net 20 million inflow from working capital, capital almost all of that period capacity has been added to our expenditure falling by 80 million, anticipated income from propmerchanting market by our competitors, and ourselves and the erty realisations and lower interest rates, we are targeting a retail market has also seen a small capacity increase.
However, reduction in covenantable net debt by at least 125m in 2009. the severity of the current downturn has significantly changed Should trading conditions worsen from our forecasts, we will those trends.
Branch closures by competitors accelerated implement more aggressive contingency plans to further reduce towards the end of costs and release cash 2008, with around 300 with the aim of closures now recorded achieving our target for across merchant and debt reduction.
Clearly, Led by John Carter, this improves the our Chief Operating prospects for LFL sales Officer, the actions we in all remaining have taken comprise: branches in the sector, cost reduction: working including our own.
capital efficiency: enWe monitor the profit hanced management and cash contribution of focus: targeting market all branches on a continshare gains: gross uous basis, compared to margin protection: propthe alternative use value erty realisations: and that could be derived reduced capital expendifrom closure and ture all implemented possible disposal.
In a while we maintain the normal year we would motivation of our people.
expect to close around 5 Subject to these to 10 branches as part assumptions and continof a continuous process gency plans proving reliof upgrading and able, we have sufficient improving our estate.
In capital to manage the 2009 we do not expect Group through the to increase significantly downturn, as described that level, although it is in the Finance Directors clearly sensitive to the level at which our sales performance review of the year.
However, given the increased economic volatility, stabilises.
Given our stronger operating margin we would expect we are closely monitoring trading trends, and are continuously our competitors to be more vulnerable to the market downturn updating plans for, and evaluation of, options for protecting the than ourselves - as has been the case in recent months.
We believe that the most efficient companies will emerge assessing potential closures, we allow for the support to future sales levels provided by actual and probable competitor closures.
from this severe downturn in a relatively stronger position.
We fully intend to be one of those companies and to evaluate attractive market opportunities which might present themselves.
M AN A G I N G THR OUGH TH E DO WN TUR N Management Focus Given the poor short and medium term outlook for our markets, We have now halted all noncapital development projects, as indicated by the analysis described above, we have taken such as technology developments, except those with an action in 2008, across the Group, to deal with anticipated tough attractive short-term cash return.
All management resources trading conditions continuing into 2009.
We also retain a number are now dedicated to the day job.
This has increased the of contingency plans should it be necessary to take further action time and attention available for developing sales, servicing in response to downside scenarios we have analysed.
customer requirements and maintaining our offer at the Based on our analysis of previous recessions in our sector highest possible standards.
It has also enabled us to reduce and our monitoring of lead indicators, we estimate that management resources, both in our central functions and in volumes purchased in our markets will fall by some 25% from our businesses.
12 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 13 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R Market Share Gains such reductions in price due to our tactical buying initiatives.
The strength of our offer in all our businesses continues to drive However, the full year effect of strong cost and price inflation across LFL growth rates that are superior than each of their markets.
our ranges seen in 2008 is likely to underpin continued overall This has been further supported by sales gains from competitor high inflation in 2009. closures, the maturing of recently opened branches and the withdrawal of credit insurance from some merchant competiCost Reduction tors.
All these factors will remain in 2009, and we expect our Action has already been taken to rein back discretionary costs, overall trend of out-performing the market to continue.
cut variable costs to a level capable of handling anticipated 2009 We have also enjoyed considerable success in targeting volumes cuts here were deliberately timed with the lull in contractors working in segments of the construction market that building activity over the winter months to enable us to take this have continued to grow, and that show good medium-term early action without compromising service, and to streamline prospects.
In particular, many more social housing landlords and fixed elements of cost, such as management structures.
their contractors are seeking to outsource their stores operaVariable costs comprise approximately 40% of our total cost tions and our public sector stores business continues to win the base, with the largest elements being people and transport.
majority of bids it enters.
Prospects for this and similar sectors During the first half of 2008 we were successful in not replacing have been further boosted leavers to enable us to by recent government achieve the required level of announcements about headcount reduction.
This investing in public sector enabled us to maintain RETAIL MERCHANDISING buildings and infrastructure productivity ratios as LFL PRODUCTIVITY PRODUCTIVITY as part of its economic sales fell.
However, the PER EMPLOYEE k PER EMPLOYEE k stimulus package.
Our sharp steps down in activity activities here, conducted we saw in the second half by dedicated teams of and our prediction of a managers, will continue to continuing contraction of 2008 2008 187 216 add to the market share our markets in 2009 gains we have made.
prompted us to set our staffing at a level consistent Gross Margin Protection with lower expected 2007 2007 220 197 As the contraction in our revenues in 2009.
Total market has deepened, we headcount, has been have experienced the reduced in both businesses normal pressure on margins and central functions and is 2006 2006 206 189 caused by some merchants now over 1900 full time delaying the introduction of equivalents 14% lower price rises, and by some than in January 2008.
After 2005 retailers seeking to support allowing for an extra 600 2005 196 174 volumes through heavily people added in new advertised price promotions.
branches, the LFL fall in Despite this we have been headcount was 2,500, a able to increase gross reduction of 16%.
Our margins in 2008 by 0.2% transport fleet has also through the organisation of reduced by 14%, with over our commercial relationships, the extension of our global sourcing 300 vehicles eliminated.
Some of these vehicles are available for activities, and the introduction of new IT based pricing tools in our redeployment, thereby reducing capital expenditure requiretrade branches.
ments in the next two years.
These initiatives leave us well placed to compensate for the We will continue to manage our transport fleet and headfurther market originated margin pressure we expect to expericount on an active basis.
Our global sourcing activities are now capable of significant expansion following our investment in expanded Working Capital Efficiency central distribution facilities, and wider and better use of our Management of our efficient working capital ratios became pricing tools is planned.
Falling commodity prices and intensifying increasingly difficult in 2008 as both suppliers and customers competition amongst far eastern exporters are expected to sought to conserve cash.
Despite this, we reduced working compensate for Sterling weakness compared to 2008.
Our relacapital by 23m compared with the end of 2007 and also our tionship with key suppliers puts us in a good position to deal with total working capital to sales ratio at the end of 2008 was 4.2% what we expect to be continued high cost and price inflation, due compared to 5.3% at the end of 2007.
Our supply chain projin part to Sterlings recent weakness.
We anticipate there will be ects delivered some 34m of cash savings in 2008 from stock some commodity categories where we may see some price deflareductions, whilst at the same time improving product availtion.
In these cases we are in a strong position to benefit from any ability.
The work we have completed on working capital manage- 13 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR ment has reduced the working capital investment we carry into 2009, which we expect to further improve by 20m as more projects complete.
Additional resources have been allocated to the collection of trade debts in an environment where an increased number of building contractors are struggling to survive.
Whilst we have increased the attention given to this aspect of our business, improving co-ordination between our central credit control function and our business teams, we expect a further deterioration in both debtor days outstanding and our bad debt charge in 2009.
We enjoy very close and long-standing relationships with our suppliers and work actively to support development of their business plans.
Whilst we are conscious of possible restrictions in the availability of trade credit insurance, we do not anticipate this impacting the terms on which we trade with our suppliers.
Taken together, the above actions are expected to enable us to maintain this ratio.
With a falling market and sales volume, cash generation from working capital will significantly contribute to our target of a 125m reduction in covenantable net debt in 2009.
Property Realisations Since late 2005 we have pursued a programme of active management of our property portfolio to maximise value generated from each site.
That programme has involved, on a siteby-site basis, sales of surplus land, relocations of trading sites to less valuable locations, establishment of a special purpose vehicle to raise capital from low capital growth properties via partial sale and leaseback, and the purchase of a limited number of freeholds to maintain the overall quality of our estate.
Our portfolio retains excellent defensive characteristics as we level is sustainable for two to three years, following which, with manage through the downturn, comprising 351 freehold and 57 our depreciation charge at just over 60 million, an increase long leasehold properties in a total estate of 1,307 properties.
The current book value, established from a 1999 valuation exercise plus subsequent additions at cost, is 257m, an Further Cost and Cash Actions increase of 15m over the value at the end of 2007.
At the same Whilst we have already taken sufficient actions to deal with time as improving the quality of the estate, we have been able our forecast for falling volumes into 2009 in both trade and to generate 49.5m of cash and 28.7m contribution to operretail markets, we retain the flexibility to take action in ating profit over the last three years via 22 projects involving 56 response to various alternative scenarios.
We expect to be able properties.
to flex our variable costs in line with variations from forecast We have 24 projects under active development covering volumes handled.
The inflation rate on fixed costs, particularly 41 properties.
Whilst the current restriction of funding to proprents, is falling close to zero.
We have also developed plans to erty developers has reduced our targets for 2009, we still reduce debt and fixed costs further should the need arise.
In 2009 a number of projects will complete, including projects remain optimistic we will exceed the average annual cash raised from the programme to date.
A number of projects aimed at reducing fuel costs through vehicle tracking techinvolve counterparties such as discount food retailers who, nology, waste costs through greater separation and recycling, despite the economic conditions, have sustained expansion and energy costs through improved management information plans and available funds.
Reduced Capital Expenditure D EVE LOPMEN T Clearly, our decision to halt almost all network expansion and withdraw from acquisition opportunities will considerably assist Over the last 3 years we have broadened our revenue sources, our debt reduction plans.
In addition, we have eliminated all but entered a few selected new adjacent markets and channels and the most essential capital projects and lengthened the replacealso added 240 branches to our existing businesses.
However, ment cycle for all classes of asset.
This, together with our mothour stance on expansion changed significantly in early 2008. balling of delivery vehicles withdrawn from trade branches in Apart from deals agreed in late 2007 or the first few weeks of 2008, will substantially reduce capital expenditure in 2009, 2008, most expansion activity has been halted.
This meant we which we have targeted at 37m.
Expenditure at broadly this added 75 new branches in the first half-year, but only 23 new 14 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR the plumbing heating and ventilation market, and we have signifbranches in the second half.
We are continuing to expand our tile icant scope for growth once market conditions become more retail business since each new branch produces a very quick cash payback, and we will continue to provide funding to Toolfavourable.
Station to support its expansion, subject to it meeting performance conditions incorporated in our acquisition agreement.
Aside CCF from these developments, very few new branches will be added Our dry-lining, screeding ceilings and insulation specialist had a to our network in 2009. very busy year, integrating the 9 new branches mainly added via acquisition in 2007.
Having closed 1 branch in 2008 through Wickes planned rationalisation, the CCF business operated from 33 Total retail selling space at Wickes expanded by 3.3% as a result branches at the end of the year.
CCFs market is now very largely of launching a net 8 new stores.
At 31 December, we traded held in the hands of major national or international distributors from 193 stores.
The re-configuration programme, which who have recently invested in the sector, and with only a few involves reclaiming storage space for use as selling area and suppliers of the key products, competitive conditions remained the construction of mezzanine floors in stores with very high very tight.
Despite this, CCFs one-stop shop offer to contracsales densities, has been suspended to conserve cash.
tors means it enjoys a good reputation and new branches deliver Following the liquidation of our supplier of conservatories, good returns.
Following promotion of the incumbent, a Travis and against a background of recent weakening demand for Perkins regional director was appointed as the new managing these products, we decided to exit this market.
During 2009 we director of CCF in June 2008. plan to re-lay our showrooms in Wickes stores to incorporate an expanded bathroom offer a product category which continues Benchmarx to offer good growth and synergies across the Group, and yet A new managing director was appointed in late 2007 to Benchwhere our retail market share has underperformed the rest of marx, our specialist kitchen and joinery business for the trade which was launched in 2006.
During 2008 the Benchmarx busithe retail business.
ness model was refined to improve new branch breakeven Outside Great Britain, we signed an agreement to develop a franchised chain of Wickes stores in Eire.
The first store, at volumes and cash payback profile, and 4 new branches were Limerick opened in October and, against a background of home opened.
The successful elements of this model are now being improvement market conditions that are even worse than the retrofitted to the entire estate.
Benchmarx serves a market with UK, traded in 2008 in line with expectations.
Our franchise attractive returns and growth characteristics and our offer has partner will evaluate the performance of this store against the scored very highly with our new customers in this market.
We difficult market conditions in Eire before reviewing further expanplan further branch openings and we remain committed to sion plans.
creating a business with a significant market share in this sector.
Travis Perkins We added a net 30 sites during the year to the Travis Perkins branch network and traded from 611 sites at the year-end.
Around 80% of new sites were brownfields, which have relatively attractive returns compared to acquisitions.
We also added a gross 27 tool hire outlets taking our total to 191 in the Group.
Keyline Under the guidance of a new managing director, our heavyside merchant added 4 branches to its network, finishing the year with 83 branches.
Over recent years we have sought to increase focus on both depth and breadth of specialist stock range and to concentrate on major civil engineering customers.
This programme continued in 2008, with 18 branches being reconfigured to take new ranges.
Keyline performs strongly amongst groundwork contractors, who are amongst the first tradesmen on new housing sites, and have therefore been more severely affected in this recession.
We expect to continue Keylines branch expansion once housing market prospects are Tile Giant more positive.
We entered the retail tile market at the end of 2007 via the acquisition of Tile Giant, a 29-store chain operating mainly in City Plumbing Supplies the Midlands.
This business has subsequently been expanded With a newly refined and better balanced business model rapidly through 2 acquisitions and a number of brownfield openserving plumbing contractors and the installed bathroom sector, ings.
It traded from 78 stores at the year-end and we have a CPS continues to offer good returns from expansion.
Having good pipeline of further opportunities to expand.
The cash added a net 7 new branches in 2008 CPS now trades from 196 payback profile of new tile retail branches remains excellent locations.
CPS is the smallest of 4 national businesses serving despite the impact of a weaker consumer market.
15 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR ToolStation 4 years ago we built on the Groups outstanding merchanting In April 2008, the Group acquired a 30% equity interest in Toolsenior management capability via managers joining from Station, a rapidly growing direct retailer of lightside products acquired businesses, the addition of a number of external from its founding shareholders for 5 million.
Since then the appointments, and internal promotions.
A significant proporGroup has provided an initial loan of 7 million to allow ToolStation of our management at every level have experienced a tion to repay its outstanding early stage loan capital.
The Group recession in our sector before, and are well equipped to take has the right to acquire the outstanding share capital of Toolaction as appropriate to manage their branches, departments Station through an earn-out formula in April 2012. and businesses.
ToolStation sells a wide range of This work also helped us build and tools, fixings, hardware, electrical, strengthen our central management plumbing and heating materials to functions, which have been the source retail and merchanting customers of many of the synergy benefits and throughout the United Kingdom and initiatives that have enabled our busithrough a franchised operation in the ness teams to deliver a market leading Netherlands.
At the date of taking our performance.
The high quality and interest, ToolStation traded from 11 experienced senior management branches.
By the end of 2008, its group were organised in 2007 in to 3 network had expanded to 33 outlets, divisions general merchanting, and it had also grown its sales on a specialist merchanting and retailing, LFL basis, joining the other businesses together with a streamlined senior in the Group in taking LFL market management structure for central share through a better offer.
It plans to functions, to add focus to our continuous improvement programmes.
To continue its successful strategy of branch network expansion, with the further strengthen our management aim of operating from at least 80 trade arrangements, Robin Procter, our counters within the next five years.
Supply Chain Director will join the Travis Perkins will use its buying Groups Executive Committee, scale, global sourcing capabilities, following the considerable success of supply chain facilities and property projects to improve supply chain expertise with the aim of accelerating performance, lower costs, and reduce ToolStations rate of growth.
this investment Travis Perkins has also Throughout the Group, colleague acquired the right to use ToolStations retention and experience is monitored ecommerce, warehousing and fulfilas a key target.
We believe that a ment software for direct selling of significant part of our superior Travis Perkins existing merchanting performance in each market can be and retailing brands.
directly linked to the better retention and quality of our people and management at every level.
The recession has caused an increased rate of senior management turnover amongst a O RGAN ISATIO final number of our competitors, and our senior management have C APABI LITIES reported an increased frequency of approaches.
Whilst it is not Over the previous 3 years, we have supported the development unusual for our managers to be sought after, this increased attention has meant that unusually in 2008 we experienced and expansion of the Group with the implementation of a wide some undesirable turnover amongst this group, with 17 of our range of development projects and new initiatives, with a 110-strong senior management group leaving the business.
strengthening of our senior management team and the creation by consolidation of some new central functions for example Whilst 11 of these departures were linked to our cost saving the creation of a new group IT function via the merger of the programmes or retirements, 3 leavers joined competitors and 3 former Travis Perkins and Wickes IT functions.
During 2008 our left for other reasons.
stance on these developments changed.
The action we have taken to deal with the contraction in our Most new development projects, except those with a rapid markets has increased the demands on our people.
We are, as cash payback, have been postponed.
Many new functions have evidenced by our superior cost ratios and operating margins, an been reduced in size and cost so they support only essential effective and efficient organisation.
The effect of seeking to activity.
One central function has been disbanded all together.
reduce fixed costs in line with sales trends whilst continuing to Some external services have been in-sourced as a preferred run a base level of service has manifested itself in an increased alternative to making our people redundant and losing key skills.
and more diverse workload for many of our people.
They have Some management teams in businesses and central functions responded magnificently.
In 2008 I continued my programme of have been reduced in size.
regular visits to our branches, stores, distribution centres and These changes have affected every business, department offices and by the end of the year had seen over 350 sites.
I and level of the Group, including senior management.
Starting also continued to meet with all colleagues in our support func- 16 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR We had set ourselves interim targets for 2008 against which tions over a rolling series of communication and feedback to judge our progress.
The sections below outline how we have sessions during the year.
I am continually impressed by the dedication and commitment of my colleagues and would like, on performed against those targets, provide some information about behalf of the Board, to express my thanks to all of them for all how we plan to ensure ongoing improvements and, despite their hard work.
against the trend performance in some areas in 2008, set out challenging future 5 year targets.
Whilst our objectives have been consistently pursued, environENVI R O NMEN T mental reporting is an immature and evolving discipline.
From Summary time to time it becomes necessary for us to refine the metric In these tougher trading conditions we have refocused our envithat we use to measure and communicate our progress.
ronmental priorities on initiatives where environmental efficiency This year: also generates rapid cost savings.
However, despite this, weIn preparation for the likely UK Carbon Reduction Commithave retained our resolve to continue to effectively manage all ment regulations, and in response to changing government the environmental impacts of our activities and to create guidelines published in 2008, we have for the first time, distincommercial opportunities by providing superior environmental guished between our carbon dioxide emission reductions services to our customers.
achieved through the purchase of grid based renewable elecWe continue with 4 key objectives to reduce our environtricity from those achieved through other efficiencies: mental impact - to reduce our carbon emissions, reduce waste toWe have made adjustments because of changes in guidelandfill, increase certified timber purchases and prevent pollution.
lines on emission factors to apply to carbon dioxide emission We are committed to external certification of our performcalculations as well as including an estimate for plane, train ance and have renewed our certificates for well-managed timber and taxi emissions: chain of custody and continue to operate with an ISO 14001We have employed OECD standardised deflation rates back to the baseline year to ensure turnover acts as a valid reprecertified environmental management system.
We had been using our own measured In 2008 we actively communicated with colleagues, rates that are particular to construction products, but recogcustomers, suppliers, regulators, government and civil society, recognising that a partnership and broad consensus across nise that this makes comparison of performance between operators in the supply chain and those seeking to influence it companies more difficult: is required for genuine reductions in environmental impact.
We have re-calculated our carbon dioxide and waste KPIs In particular, we: back to the baseline year and present both sets of figures Inaugurated our Non-Executive Environmental Advisory for comparison: Panel: Significantly increased our communications activities on environmental issues: Continued to work with the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, the Energy Saving Trust and Carbon Trust: Signed 2 agreements with the Green 500 organisation and the British Retail Consortium: Continued our membership and participation in 4 environmental forums at the WWF, United Kingdom Forest and Trade Network UKFTN, British Retail Consortium and Construction Products Association: Received constructive feedback from 3 reports we produced on our environmental performance from the Carbon Disclosure Project, Business in the Community, WWF and UKFTN.
Environmental Improvement Plan We have again asked Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance to assure both the statements we make and the figures we reportAs we indicated in our half year update, we have provided against our key performance indicators in this section of our information to judge future progress against our new packannual report.
A copy of their statement can be found in the enviaging and water reduction targets.
ronment section of the Travis Perkins web site.
In future years: Performance trends can be seen by examining the graphs whichWe will use only the re-calculated KPIs to illustrate our combine information from across the business converted into a performance trends: common base.
The final indicators are a combination of meas-We will simplify our measure of waste management by ured, averaged and estimated performance.
Wherever possible adopting a single KPI of reduced waste to landfill: we have used standardised data collection and reporting tech-We will continue to listen to and have regard to stakeholder niques and continue to work to improve the accuracy of the interest in the way which we communicate performance and measures reported.
in particular we will ensure that our targets continue to be in 17 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 18 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R line with sector agreements and any signatory commitments improved heating controls in the Wickes estate.
These controls to which we have committed, details of which can be found offer a 25% minimum reduction in carbon dioxide emissions on our website.
Our specialist Eco and renewable energy centres that were Carbon Management launched in 2008 have also generated much interest.
Sales of In 2008 direct and indirect emissions of carbon dioxide were our solutions for renewable energy, micro-renewables and water 111,070 tonnes, or 167,241 tonnes if discounts for grid based capture and storage equipment remain modest but we have renewables are excluded.
Whilst we can report a significant seen growth in this sector over the year and see this as an reduction in our emissions of CO2 from energy consumption important product group for the future.
22% : this reduction is mainly from discounting grid renewable Overall we have not succeeded in meeting our 10% reducelectricity which going forward we are unable to do.
In current market conditions, a 2010 target the reduction is balanced by similar rises in emissions from of a 20% reduction now seems unlikely.
Our plan to take over transportation, as we continue to replace customer journeys with direct responsibility for more inbound shipments of products our own deliveries in the merchanting division.
into our central warehouses, with the consequent rise in associated emissions, will make this target even harder to achieve.
Taking in to account the present economic conditions in construction markets, we feel that a 20% reduction in tonnes of C0 EMISSIONS 2005-2008 2 carbon dioxide emitted per million pounds of sales by 2013 is Original data Based on Travis Perkins sales deflated figures appropriate and we will revise our 2010 target to a 15% reduction from the 2005 baseline year.
Transport 24.8 24.2 26.5 29.3 Waste Management In 2008 we diverted 7,499 tonnes or 14.5% of our waste away from landfill.
Much of this reduction to landfill was achieved by Energy 14.6 15.2 13.1 11.4 recycling 14% of our waste.
Only 0.5% of our waste was sent 35.5 for incineration.
Using our revised figures, which incorporate 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 OECD deflation rates, we also reduced our waste to landfill Target arising, per million pounds of yard and core sales, by 6% over Revised data Based on corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures 2005 as part of a wider focus on cost savings by operational colleagues within the Group.
Transport 27.1 26.5 25.6 27.6 WASTE TONNAGE 2005-2008 Original data Based on Travis Perkins sales deflated figures Recycling 3.3 3.0 0.9 1.5 Energy 32.8 31.8 27.7 30.2 53.9 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 Target Tonnes CO per m Group sales 2 Waste 19.8 17.8 18.8 19.5 18.7 The performance reflects: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 Our cessation, in October 2008, of purchasing grid based Target renewables for most of our estate, since in the future we Revised data Based on corrected data and OECD sales deflated figures can no longer count these purchases as a reduction in our Recycling 3.1 carbon emissions: 2.8 1.0 1.7The ratio of delivered sales to total sales continuing to rise.
Delivered sales accounted for 30% of turnover in the baseline year of 2005 and 33% of turnover in this last year.
Our performance trend with our revised KPIs - which take into account, UK government changes in reporting guidelines and conversion standards, OECD standardised deflation, corrected Waste 22.9 21.2 20.9 21.5 21.5 energy invoice data from 2005 06, as well as including estimates for our taxi, train and plane business miles - shows a 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 similar modest reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.
Target Tonnes waste per m yard and core sales We continue to invest in projects aimed at energy efficiency Excludes sales from direct deliveries improvements.
Towards the end of the year we started installing 18 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 19 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R Our improvement plans on recycling are progressing well our chain of custody procedures to ensure we maximise supplies and by the end of 2008 we had more than 150 sites sending of certified timber and timber products.
In 2008 we estimate cardboard and plastic waste back to regional hubs for that we purchased 80% of our timber from certified well processing and onward sale.
Once this is fully operational across managed sources, taking us close to our 85% target.
all our distribution networks in early 2009 we expect to be Each incremental movement from this point gets progresachieving a recycling rate of 20%.
sively harder because of the availability of material needed for Even through we have reduced our landfill waste arising the awkward product groups which remain largely uncertified.
levels on a like-for-like basis, our target of a 10% decrease in However, we recognise that it is important to keep the pressure intensity of waste has not been reached and our recycling on the timber supply chain to promote change in the source target will not be met until 2009.
Our challenge now is to adopt forests of the world.
further segregation of waste to allow for recycling so that we In 2008 we have had notable success in plywood sourcing can achieve a 50% reduction in waste to landfill from 2005 and are now bringing in new FSC sources from China and levels, by 2013.
We have also replaced our American sourced joists Packaging and Water Management The amount of packaging that we pass on to our customers is TIMBER CERTIFICATION also an area of attention.
Earlier this year we set ourselves a 20% weight reduction target per million pounds of sales from the OCS FSC OCS FSC OCS FSC OCS FSC Target 2008 level by 2013.
In 2008 an estimated 64,041 tonnes of packaging waste was generated for products sold to customers, 26% 85% 34% 24% 28% 36% 49% 48% 54% equating to 22 tonnes per million pound of sales.
Our immediate priority is to establish good practice guidance and communicate this with our suppliers.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 Water, like our consumption of other utilities, has an indirect FSC: Forest Stewardship Council OCS: Other Certified Schemes environmental impact when used.
Water supply is likely to reduce Timber purchased Note: 2005 data excludes Wickes timber figures in certain regions because of climate change so it is important that demand is controlled.
Improving the efficiency with which we use water will be an important way to reduce this demand.
We have set ourselves a target of a 5% reduction in water usage per with product manufactured in Germany from FSC sources.
million pounds of sales from 2008 levels by 2013.
In 2008 we In 2009 we will continue to influence and change our estimate that we used 403,779 litres equating to 140 litres per external supply chain.
We will also develop our internal controls million pound of sales based on OCED figures.
thereby strengthening the chain of custody for certified wellmanaged materials.
Timber Management Whilst our 5-year ambition remains for full certification, we In 2008 we have seen a growth in demand for certified wellbelieve a target of 90% certified by value purchased is achievmanaged timber products.
We have undertaken a full review of able by 2011.
19 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 20 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R Pollution Prevention We hold 12 Environmental Permits PPC Part B permits for ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS AND COMPLAINTS our timber cutting and timber treatment activities.
We recorded no incidents or complaints about these installations.
COMPLAINTS COMPLAINTS COMPLAINTS COMPLAINTS Across our branch and store network we had 4 reportable INCIDENTS INCIDENTS INCIDENTS INCIDENTS incidents, including spillages of either diesel or paint.
In each case the quantity was small and the established emergency procedures were used.
There were no investigations by the Environment Agency.
5 5 10 5 10 6 17 4 We are pleased to report that we had no prosecutions for any environmental offences in 2008.
2005 2006 2007 2008 Complaints In 2008 we recorded 17 environmental complaints.
Four were from the Vehicle Certification Agency VCA, the regulator for amongst our advisors, about the underlying causes of the disprosome aspects of the Waste Electrical Electronic Equipment portionate movement in our share price.
Regulations, over potential non-compliance with the consumer Regular feedback about investors views is gathered after information requirements in these regulations.
The VCA were our scheduled meetings by brokers and occasionally by the satisfied with our responses and are not pursing the matter.
In addition, in 2008, we engaged an indeTwo complaints were from neighbours about traffic, noise or pendent consultant to research investors views and then lighting.
Eight complaints were from customers, 7 of which were reviewed the outcome of this research with the Board.
From this related to customer timber reporting and we continue to work to work a number of clear views emerged, with shareholders very with these customers on the issue.
Three complaints were from supportive of the Groups strategy, relative performance and colleagues dissatisfied with aspects of delivery of our environmanagement capabilities.
Unfortunately, with the Groups activmental services.
ities involved in two currently unloved sectors construction and retailing and with a balance sheet that until the present crisis was regarded as suitably efficient, there has been little buying C O MMUN ITY R E LATIO NS support for the shares, and hence With an extensive national presence the relative underperformance.
The of over 1,233 places across Great fall in the share price relative to the Britain where we do business, and prospects for long-term generation deeply embedded relationships in of value for shareholders prompted local communities, we actively a number of long-term value funds manage our community relations and to take a position in our stock.
of these funds emanate from North Our business raised more than America, and by the end of 2008 we 665,000 2007: 885,000 for charestimate that 26% of the register ities, including our three nationally was represented by institutional supported charities, NCH the Chilinvestors from that region.
drens Charity, Mencap and its sister In contrast, deepening poor charity ENABLE Scotland and economic forecasts for our sectors Leukaemia Research UK.
This total attracted the interest of short sellers, raised includes direct donations by the as indicated by the proportion of our Group amounting to 69,083 2007: stock on loan.
This rose through 153,656 and donations by our 2008 from a previous long run colleagues through our payroll giving average of around 3 to 4% to over scheme amounting to 76,672 2007: 10% for much of the year.
At the 40,254. year-end stock on loan was 10%.
In 2008, we continued our role as Managements policy, as long term main sponsor of Northampton Saints holders of Travis Perkins shares, is rugby club and continued to involve our Northamptonshire not to meet with any institution that is known to hold a short colleagues in joint community activities.
Unfortunately, information about short positions is difficult to find.
Responsibility for communications with shareholders and I NVES T O R R E LATIO NS debt providers rests directly with me and Paul Hampden Smith, Our share price ended the year some 72% lower than at the our Finance Director, with support and advice from the beginning of the year compared to a decline in the FTSE 250 Companys brokers.
We do not employ an investor relations index of 40%.
2008 proved to be a trying year for shareholders, manager.
The Company Chairman and Senior Independent and there has naturally been much debate, internally and Director attend a selection of investor meetings throughout the 20 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YE AR year, and the Company Chairman attends the meetings at which we present the Groups interim and preliminary results to buyside and sell-side analysts.
In addition to these meetings, at least one day per month is set aside to meet investors and analysts.
This regular programme is supplemented with two trips per year to meet with investors in Eire, Canada and the USA, and we host a visit for analysts to a selection of our businesses once per year.
In 2008 we conducted nearly 200 meetings with investors.
As part of each exercise to present interim and preliminary results, we typically meet shareholders representing around 60% of the shares outstanding.
This includes a family lunch where we meet with representatives of the Travis, Perkins and Fisher families.
S TR ATEGY In last years report to shareholders, we set out the progress we made on our strategic priorities.
These priorities were set and selected to pursue our strategy of out-performing our markets on a like-for-like basis, expanding our networks and entering adjacent channels for the supply of building materials.
Whilst we have outperformed our markets and expect to continue to do so, we have, as noted above, suspended almost all our expansion activity and have postponed any further moves into adjacent channels.
Given the conditions we face in our markets and in the wider economy, we believe our current strategy is very clear maximise revenues from our existing assets, cut costs, and generate cash.
This, together with the fall in interest rates, will enable us to reduce debt further and retain the support of our debt providers by maintaining the biggest possible margin of safety on our covenants.
All our management and resources are focussed on these priorities.
Until we can see signs of a recovery in our markets, we do not think it worthwhile to comment on, or further develop, our longer-term strategies.
There will come a time when such a review and report to shareholders will be appropriate, but that time is difficult to determine in present conditions.
Our businesses have strong brands, experienced management teams and market leading financial performance.
Longerterm growth prospects for our markets remain positive.
These strengths mean we remain confident of our ability to trade through the present difficult environment and to position the Group to take advantage of further opportunities we believe will arise when our sector returns to growth.
Geoff Cooper Chief Executive 18 February 2009 21
