82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 22 C H IEF OPERATI N G OFFI CERS R EVIEW OF TH E YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 full time equivalents a reduction of 14% or 2,500 FTEs 16% I N TR O DU CTIO N on a LFL basis.
lthough we went into 2008 with real concerns about a A proactive stance was taken in order to limit the number of downturn in trading within the building sector, the pace redundancies required to achieve this reduction.
Early in 2008 Aand severity when it happened, was so much greater we froze most recruitment activity and conducted a review to than we had anticipated.
We had acted to not add new staff to identify additional actions to manage the difficult trading environthe payroll, and not replace leavers wherever possible during ment confronting us.
the early part of the year, but had to instigate a much more The review involved examination of: proactive action plan during theActivity impacts identifying second half of 2008.
This involved activities critical to drive addidramatically reducing our headcount, tional business and sustain our and network expansion, cutting added value.
Activities with longer term benefits have been elimicapital expenditure and managing the Group on a positive cash basis.
nated or reduced in scale: Each business and functional depart-Available opportunities identiment head across the Group played a fying opportunities to accelerate, vital and full part in positioning through the prudent reallocation ourselves for this most difficult of of resources and skills, the trading conditions.
delivery of new revenue or profits.
We are fortunate that the Group is The review identified a significant blessed with the strongest and most number of opportunities to reduce and stable senior operating team within re-align our resources through the our sector.
They have the widest and active engagement of all managers deepest experience of both growing a and key colleagues in central functions business, and of defending its posiand in the businesses.
This holistic tion during the hardest of times that approach to reviewing our organisawe are now facing.
tion and activities, combined with an early discussion to curtail costs, has been the key to ensuring we achieve OUR PEOPLE John Carter, Chief Operating Officer our cost reduction targets whilst Our vision to create a people first minimising redundancies.
environment that facilitates high performance, provides opporWe worked collaboratively with all of our businesses to put tunity for career progression, and celebrates and rewards in place colleague support mechanisms wherever possible.
This ensured that those colleagues whose positions were redunsuccess, thereby encouraging all staff to play their part in dant were helped to make the transition into other roles both making the Travis Perkins Group a great and safe place to work.
We recognise that our success depends upon our people inside and outside the Group.
We believe that this supportive and the relationships that are built at all levels of our business.
approach for both those leaving and those remaining in the Our people, and the environment in which they work drive the Group has helped maintain a higher level of morale and motidevelopment of sustainable, profitable customer relationships.
vation than would normally be expected in these circumWe believe that a high level of colleague engagement is finanstances.
This is particularly pleasing given that this is the first cially rewarding for the Group, in that it directly contributes to time for a number of years that our agenda has moved from healthy operating margins in all our businesses.
A proactive approach was taken early in 2008 to the Our people have risen to this challenge and have supported management of our cost base through our people to prepare all of our actions with the same intensity and vigour they our business for an anticipated fall in sales across our sector.
We showed when making our organisation the success it is today.
accelerated this action in September in response to a more rapid In making these changes, many of our senior leaders were decline in market prospects.
personally impacted financially, however, they have recognised At the beginning of 2008, Travis Perkins employed over the need for change if our business is to be protected for the 17,500 people across more than 1,200 sites in the UK.
result of these difficult market conditions, the actions we have We are pleased that many of the people who have left our taken have reduced the number of employees by over 1,900 employment have secured positions externally.
22 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 23 CHIEF OPER A TI NG OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YE AR relationship management and sales delivery has been Engagement Building on our Success retained as a key priority.
We concluded an employee opinion survey in 2007 and, as a Senior management development activity has been postresult, we now have consistent people metrics for our employer brand and employee engagement objectives.
A poned, whilst our investment in improving our role specific number of operational and employee management practices training in sales has been maintained.
We will continue to invest have been changed in response to the feedback received.
in other individual skills, in particular where we have developed In 2007, our colleagues told us what a great place Travis a number of new products to meet the demands of the current Perkins is to work, however, this message was not as strong in trading climate.
Managing in tough times for leaders who have the wider job market.
Early in 2008, work commenced to not experienced a recession is at the forefront of this delivery.
improve the impact of our employer brand.
This involved develThis follows a re-definition of a number of key roles to drive oping a new brand identity Building People, Building Britain, results, and to enable all activity to be aligned with the retention which because we have identified pride as a key ingredient in and development of current and new revenue streams.
The driving employee engagement and motivation, focused on develimpact of these new projects is being felt across the organisaoping pride in our people our contribution as a supplier to the tion, and feedback from our senior business leaders has UKs Building and Construction industry.
confirmed that they match the needs of each business and that A direct relationship exists between the level of engagement they have given our people the best possible start to the year.
Our Each business has agreed own data is confirmed by target revenue increases by external research, which branch so that we can review shows that highly engaged the returns from this training employees are more than investment and tailor any twice as likely to be top future training to improve sales further.
performers and will miss 40% In seeking to continually fewer days of work due to improve our leadership illness.
As a result, actions have been taken throughout capacity, we have reviewed our the Group to impact critical core management developimprovement areas, including ment programmes for assisinitiatives on reward, commutant manager and branch nications and training and manager levels.
Further improvealso focused on building the ments in these improvement areas will take place in response skills necessary to manage in tough markets.
to our continuous monitoring of employee reaction.
We have realigned our training and development team to Our next engagement survey will take place in 2009.
Meanmeet our vision for people and our three key business needs: while, we are tracking the impact of initiatives we are taking as operating management development and succession: sales a result of the first survey.
Programmes will be tailored to We already have a high degree of loyalty to our brands from meet the nuances of the specific brands.
colleagues and for many we are considered to be the employer We chose to protect our management trainee scheme from of choice in our industry.
In Wickes our colleagues were proud our reorganisation as it remains a key building block for our to put their name to our brand, supporting our new TV adverfuture.
Our investment in management trainees increased in tising campaign.
We work hard to ensure that every colleague 2008 and we now have a record 156 trainees employed across related decision we make is aligned with being the employer of our brands.
It is this engagement which will see us In 2009, our key focus in Wickes retail management develthough these tough times.
Over 80% of our branch managers opment will be to address the current trend of bringing in a high proportion of external deputy managers to meet a shortage of and regional directors, who are key to our success this year, internal candidates.
We anticipate this will impact on our people have been promoted from within and have an expertise that retention statistics favourably.
cannot be matched elsewhere.
In Wickes we have strengthened our regional team with some external appointments to sustain continuous improvement Rewarding Success in our customer offer.
We are seeing increased performance We have aligned all bonus plans for both businesses and levels as a result of this strategy evidenced by our growth in individuals to reflect our priority of driving current results.
Our focus is on delivery of key results within colleagues areas of accountability.
Those that have exceeded expectations, Training and Developing for Success and so have driven profitability and people retention, will be In reviewing our costs we have considered what training well rewarded.
and development needs to be retained for immediate As a result of our You Talk, We Listen employee survey in success.
Other training plans, orientated towards our 2007, we introduced an all colleague bonus scheme in 2008 previous priorities for growth and expansion, have been to reward employees not participating in any other scheme for postponed.
Maintaining our very high standards of customer their dedication to delivering and exceeding expectations.
23 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 24 CHIEF OPER A TI NG OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YE AR We have improved two-way communications through The scheme rewards colleagues in branches that achieve a employee consultation processes a liaison group in retail and high set of standards when measured against key result areas an employee representative group in our Northampton head KRAs, which in turn measure performance against our Brand Bullseye for each brand.
This balanced scorecard approach office.
This generated a great opportunity for our people to tell ensures that there are appropriate measures across both finanus what they thought we should be doing.
Their feedback was cial and non financial performance.
We are proud that 30% of included in our organisational effectiveness review which, in qualifying employees earned a bonus payment under this scheme turn, supported our 73m cost saving initiative.
with a number qualifying for a We have continued to super bonus, having greatly develop our culture of open exceeded expectations.
and honest communication There is no doubt that this with employees.
Our business motivational tool ensured a update meetings, hosted by keen focus on each businesss an executive director and KRAs and helped us to mainsenior leaders are held tain our position as the top monthly at our Northampton rated merchant in the UK.
We head office and our Wickes are continuing the scheme in support centre, offer 2009, having made some employees the opportunity to improvements based on openly discuss business employee feedback.
issues and voice their This approach to reward concerns.
The key points of ensures that our people are rewarded for their commitment and these discussions are then cascaded to employees across the Group.
In addition, senior leaders in our retail division continue motivated to continue delivering against our high expectations.
to drive engagement with monthly Big Breakfasts, at which In order to continuously improve our position in the DIY regional store management discuss business issues raised by sector we will review our reward strategy in 2009, supporting Wickes, which continues to be the nations favourite DIY retailer, their teams.
Within Wickes stores, a new communication event, by rewarding and recognising our store-based colleagues.
Team 5 has been introduced, ensuring that branch management communicate daily with our colleagues, driving engageCommunication and Recognising Success ment and delivery of priorities.
In tough times, effective communication is key.
We took a proactive approach to communication in 2008, ensuring that our Employer of Choice Sharing in our Success people were consulted and advised ahead of the difficult actions Our SAYE scheme had a record number of applicants in 2008 we needed to take in our business to ensure profitability.
as did our salary sacrifice scheme.
We negotiated and launched We continued to recognise great ideas and the contribution of a new reward gateway scheme, which enables employees to colleagues to our success through our employee publication The take advantage of a number of voluntary benefits together with Bridge and also through our Building Britain awards scheme.
discounts on everyday items from high street stores and assisThe latter saw many colleagues receiving awards through our tance with their household finances.
We believe that our Getting it Right scheme by excelling in customer service or approach to reward maintains and enhances our position as an championing our values and also through our annual special employer of choice with a range of core benefits: achievement awards, where individuals are nominated by theirStaff discount Reward Gateway and TP Group brands: peers for going that extra mile.
Travis Perkins employees NathanPension including death in service benefit : Davies and Russell Shurmer were recognised for their quickPrivate health care: actions to help the emergency services with equipment andSalary exchange scheme - childcare vouchers, cycle2Work, manpower during the floods that decimated the South West of Give As You Earn, Small Change Big Difference: England in 2007: Buyer Asif Valiji proved his ability by saving theAnnual leave: company more than 750,000 through his ideas for betterEmployee assistance programme: sourcing: Jeff Eyre of City Plumbing Supplies was given an awardFlexible working options: for his outstanding commitment to branch performance, colleagueShare save option scheme: development and his local community: and Kay Greatbatch TileLoyalty awards: Giant and Marilyn James Northampton Head Office wereRecognition Awards Getting It Right, Branch Store honoured for their relentless hard work and dedication to their Manager of the Year in each business unit, Management respective business areas despite both undergoing treatment for Trainee of the Year, Special Achievement Awards, and CEO breast cancer.
Award for Manager of the Year.
When trading is tough its up to everyone to dig in and help We will continue to align our people management activity to all of our businesses.
We launched a new programme called our business objectives and to our people vision in order to Skip Spotters in December 2008 to make it easier for nonmaintain and improve our position of employer of choice in our sales employees to seek out new business opportunities and be sector.
Our people are among the best in our industry and it is rewarded for it.
The programme is in its infancy, but progress through them that we deliver our sales and profit targets, so far has been encouraging.
finding more flexible ways to work in order that we can respond 24 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 25 CHIEF OPER A TI NG OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YE AR quickly as market conditions improve.
We are confident that In line with our Brand Bullseye principles we continued our we are in great shape to deal with the uncertainties of the drive for further improvement on product availability, customer current climate and have the agility to move quickly as these service, and a more consistently managed pricing approach.
mandated stock range was introduced in 2007 and fully implemented in 2008 which significantly enhanced availability levels.
The rollout of our customer service package was completed and H E ALTH & SAFETY we introduced new software to our business that greatly assisted Such is the profile and importance of health & safety throughout pricing methods at trade counters.
the Group we established a Health & Safety Committee of the Assisted by the supply chain team, we made good progress Board in November 2007, and a separate report from this on reducing the level of slow moving stock in branches, releasing committee covering all our H&S developments and performance cash back into the business and opened a stock clearance is provided on pages 47 and 48. centre in Leicester with good success.
On a personal note, I and my senior operating team remain As market conditions weakened, a comprehensive absolutely committed to the quest of making every facility that programme of cost reduction was put in place by the business we operate in a safer environment and everything we do a units.
At the end of the year our workforce had been reduced by safer practice for our people, customers and suppliers.
We 13% on a like-for-like basis and distribution capacity reduced by made great strides forward in 2008 with the appointment of 18%.
This action included the removal of our oldest vehicles a world class health & safety consultant, who is very much from the fleet.
By concentrating our efforts on administrative and helping us generate a greater level of engagement of our staff support functions, in the main, and reviewing our working pracat every level.
tices, we were able to preserve our customer service focus at the front end.
This action and a review of all other cost areas enabled us to make annualised savings of over 20m in the G ENER AL MERC H AN TI N G Travis Perkins businesses.
The Travis Perkins brand remains the cornerstone of the Groups Although not a separate business unit in its own right, tool activities and comprises 4 discreet business units, namely South hire, and its management, under the strong leadership of East, South West, Midlands, and Northern, each with its own Richard Dey, achieved another worthy year of growth and managing director and management team.
It is a generalist improved performance.
We added a further 27 new outlets mixed merchant, trading across the main product groups, within the year, taking our total trading outlets to 191. offering a best in class service to a wide range of customer The national repair centre in Northampton became increastypes across many segments of the building sector.
ingly important, providing an enhanced service to our outlets In 2008 the number of trading branches was increased by and ultimately our customers.
It improved our tool utilisation, 30 to 611 with 80% of the new outlets being brownfield develallowed us to reduce repair costs through more efficient pracopments.
We also managed 19 stores in partnership with local tices and greatly assisted us in obtaining better control which authorities or their contractors.
will reduce capital expenditure going forward.
25 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 26 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R SPECIALIS T MERC H AN TI N G In our specialist division, trading in the first half was in line with 2007.
However, trading in the second half deteriorated quickly.
Sales from new housing fell steeply, although opportunities in infrastructure, hospitals, schools and RMI remained, but with increasing pressure on gross margin.
Business unit management teams across the division responded by focusing on conserving cash, reducing costs, enhancing customer service, improving stock availability and on maintaining staff morale.
Across the division, capital expenditure, both for replacement and development, was cancelled unless health & safety related.
Surplus stock reduction targets to release cash were achieved alongside improving our stock availability levels.
Headcount was reduced by 11% and our transport fleet by 14%, with surplus vehicles either disposed of or redeployed to reduce the average age of the remaining fleet.
Senior operating management was re-organised to reduce costs and to improve effectiveness and visibility, both in branches and with customers.
Credit management teams actively responded to the prospect of more difficult credit conditions.
Benchmarx Our 29 branch kitchen & joinery specialist, opened 4 branches in the first half.
The investment in these 4 branches was based on the successful lower-cost footprint developed in 2007.
During the year, the business increased both its market share and trading margins and generally traded ahead of our expectations.
CCF Our 33 branch interiors, drywall, ceilings and insulation specialist benefited from continued growth in hospital and school projects although some branches felt the impact of decline in new housing.
Margins came under pressure in the second half but the business successfully responded by expanding its product range and by reducing costs and improving productivity.
This included merging two of its three branches in Leeds.
Keyline Our heavy building materials and civils and drainage specialist, added 4 branches in the early part of the year, ending it with 83.
The decline in new housing starts heavily impacted the business and particularly affected its lower margin direct to site sales.
However, the business was able to largely protect its trading margin year-on-year.
Having made changes to its senior management team in the first half of the year, it further responded by increasing its focus on infrastructure projects through flexing its product range, where it achieved good success, and by reducing costs across the business.
City Plumbing Supplies City Plumbing Supplies opened 8 new branches and as part of its cost reduction programme reduced 1 by merger.
The business lost some sales volume from its new housing related contractor base, but further investment in stock availability and customer loyalty programmes all helped retain sales from jobbing plumbers and heating engineers.
As a result, the business grew its trading margin.
During the second half of 2008 the business also reorganised its senior management team and improved productivity.
26 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 27 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R We believe that our historic strength of getting the right R ETAI L DIVISIO N balance between quality, value and service puts us in a very Wickes strong position as we enter a period of market decline: The first indications of the market downturn became visible in customers will be increasingly attracted to our market leading the second quarter when market growth rates stalled.
This coinquality and the lowest prices in our sector.
This is evidenced by cided with a spell of poor weather at Easter at which point our the retention of our title as Britains Favourite DIY Store, voted cost reduction activities started.
By the half year it was clear for the second year running by customers in the much respected from lead indicators, such as house Verdict report.
prices and housing transactions, that We believe that our business has the events in the global economy would NUMBER OF best management in the sector and one impact strongly on our business and BRANCHES of the strongest and most resilient that it would not be a short term issue.
For these reasons we are certain We took decisive action at that point to that we are very well placed to outperreduce our cost base and working form a consolidating industry, despite the 2008 1,223 capital to a level commensurate with economic conditions.
All these changes, which were in place by the year end, were Tile Giant done in a way which protected our Tile Giant has grown rapidly during the 2007 1,125 year to become the clear number 2 in sales effort and our share of the the ceramic and stone tile market, and Sheds DIY market, which grew by is performing ahead of expectations.
2006 1,022 The sector became more competiStarting the year with 32 sites, we tive as the market tightened in the added 46 new stores including 17 from second half.
Price led promotional the acquisition of Tile Magic, 16 from activity from competitors put retail prices 2005 Tile It All and 13 brownfield openings, 783 under pressure whilst inflation from the to finish 2008 with 78 stores across the weakness of sterling put upward presUK.
Of the 17 Tile Magic stores acquired sure on costs.
Despite these pressures, in London and the South East, 15 have 2004 751 careful management minimised gross now been rebranded as Tile Giant.
Tile It margin losses as we were able to pass All continues to trade under its existing on much of the inflation into the market.
name in the North East and Scotland.
Total number of branches in Network expansion was limited to the Travis Perkins Group During the year all three tile busithose sites which we were contracted nesses have been fully integrated with to take.
Other site opportunities have each other and with the Group in terms been deferred and two loss making stores were closed.
Of the of IT and accounting systems and most central functions.
The ten new stores, seven were acquired and converted from a management teams have been effectively combined, and struggling competitor chain and three were brownfield develstrengthened with the addition of certain key roles.
The average size of the new stores was approxiThe product range has been enhanced by taking the best mately 24,000 sq ft compared with the 30,000 sq ft average from each of the three businesses.
The buying of key commodity items such as adhesives and grouts has been moved to a single of recent years, reflecting the Companys view that the lower supplier, and significant buying gains have also been achieved fixed costs of smaller stores with smarter supply chains are within Wickes tiles category.
At the end of 2008 our three existing tile warehouses were We continued to invest in new products and new formats.
Three new mezzanine floors were fitted and a new showroom format was closed and the operations centralised into our new group facility in trialled for kitchens and bathrooms which will be extended more Northampton, creating cost savings and also providing a platform widely in 2009.
There was significant investment in new kitchens for further expansion.
during the year leaving the business well placed to benefit from capacity reduction in the sector.
NATIO final SALES AN D The first franchised Wickes store opened in the Republic of M ANAG ED SER VI CES Ireland towards the end of the year - the store is operated by the Moritz group.
Although there are no immediate plans to open The Groups dedicated national sales team manages relationmore stores, this has given us the experience, systems and ships with major house builders and construction customers, as capability to consider franchise operations elsewhere in the well as a number of other organisations with significant future.
Further openings will be evaluated by Moritz in the light geographic coverage.
During 2008 the structure of the team of the current difficult market.
was changed in order to focus on the most active market Our online business continued to grow faster than the core sectors, whilst retaining an appropriate level of attention on all business, reflecting the retail industry trend for distance shopping.
of the Groups major customers.
This strategy has seen signifiWe also ran a successful trial of a home catalogue which will be cant growth in business derived from contractors working in rolled out nationally in 2009. markets such as infrastructure, health and education, facilities 27 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 28 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R management and repair and maintenance of social housing established customer insight department which works across stock, which has offset a large proportion of the reduction in all brands within the Group.
sales to major house builder customers.
Customer Insight provides our businesses with the indeDuring 2009 we will continue this targeted customer approach pendent customer views that are the bedrock of our Brand and further development of long-term framework agreements, with Bullseyes, and become incorporated into the companies plans.
the primary objective of continued This ensures that the customer is expansion through each of our the central focus of our business merchant and specialist brands.
Last year they collected GEOGRAPHICAL SALES Supported by our national sales over 20,000 customer opinions at MERCHANTING RETAIL office and our design and estivarious points in the purchase mating teams we are well posiprocess.
This enables us to pintioned to sustain and develop this point and assemble their desires business and to provide our major and requirements as to where we customers with the service they can and should make improverequire during 2009 and beyond.
ments in our service proposition.
Our managed services team So that the Group remains 26.0% 31.4% actively targets the affordable customer focused, each business 17.0% 20.5% housing RMI sector, and is responhas a customer target to aim sible for the development, delivery towards, which we call the a 26.2% 14.4% and ongoing management of Brand Bullseye.
Brand Bullseyes 25.4% 39.1% bespoke supply chain solutions to encompass all the elements of the % of total 2008 annual sales organisations and their partners customer experience - product within the social housing market, and range, availability, price and a sector which has shown considservice and these have been built erable resilience in this downturn.
Typically clients are local into the day-to-day activity of each business within the Group.
authorities, housing associations and contractors working within To ensure day-to-day continuous improvements for all our the social housing sector.
customers, all the Bullseye elements are incorporated into our Our solutions can involve: best practice programmes, which have received significant time The adaptation of a clients existing store to provide a dediand investment over the past 3 years.
cated facility: Independent customer research shows that over the last The identification of a new location for a dedicated store three years, our customer satisfaction levels for both the TP and or Travis Perkins trading branch: builders merchant and Wickes retail outlets have substantially The adaptation of an existing branch to provide dedicated improved, which is a testament to our commitment to the services: customer and the total customer experience at all of our brands The utilisation of a number of branches to provide a multi and businesses.
site solution for national or regional agreements.
These partnerships are complimentary to the Governments effiSUPPLY C H AI N ciency drive and are predominantly based upon Travis Perkins core competencies of service, purchasing, stock management, Customers and our brands are benefiting from the Groups distribution, cost control and administration.
well timed investment in supply chain development.
In a chalOur strong focus on continuous improvement has enabled lenging market we have managed to significantly reduce our housing organisations, along with their own labour workforce or over-stocks whilst still driving forward our product availability appointed contractors, to work in partnership with the objective to the highest levels in our respective markets.
The supply of delivering an improved service for their tenants.
chain team have taken a low investment approach, focused Stores exclusively supplying local authorities, housing assoon engaging colleagues through simple targeted reporting, ciations, and contractors increased from 11 in 2007 to 19 during building on our mandated ranging success of 2007 and our 2008, and we enjoyed strong sales growth as a result.
Additionexcellent branch KRA Key Result Area system.
An example ally, the Group is servicing in excess of 40 other projects through of this is the use of a monthly Top 30 lost sales analysis by existing branches.
branch, which has driven significant improvements in sales, In May of 2008, we were awarded Supplier of the Year at through linking availability measures to their true consethe Housing Excellence Awards, organised by Northern, Midlands quences in lost sales.
We now target driving down lost sales and Southern Housing magazines, in recognition of our work rather than percentage availability improvement.
Reducing lost with social housing providers and their contractors.
sales helps our customers and allows visibility of how our efforts are improving the sales line.
Although we hear much talk of collabC US T O MER SER VI CE oration in many markets, little action is evident.
We believe the AN D I NSIGHT key to this is personal relationships, strengthened through the The Groups various businesses have increasingly become more common goal of driving out lost sales and generating profits.
We customer focused in recent years, and to this end we have an present lost sales information to our suppliers through a now 28 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 29 CHIEF OPER A TI NG OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YE AR our business model and a significant cost to the business.
We improved supplier KRA solution and will begin sending direct lost sales text messages to their senior managers and reacted quickly to reducing volume in 2008 by removing 306 managing directors in early 2009.
Our supplier teams can see vehicles from our 2,256 strong trade fleet.
This is just the start first hand the challenges of product availability and work proacof a programme of efficiency improvements in this function.
tively to resolve any issues with Travis Perkins Group often before Following a successful trial, we implemented vehicle tracking our internal team are aware of them.
and utilisation technology in all our CCF brand vehicles.
The Infrastructure has also improved.
2008 saw the successful move has proved a significant asset to this business, reducing start up of a 500,000 sq ft multi-brand warehouse providing costs and environmental impacts through improved utilisation.
reliable access to a wider set of products, which in turn drives This programme will be rolled out to our other merchant busiup our branch product availability.
Even in the tough market nesses during 2009 and once utilisation has improved, we will conditions of 2008 this has proved an excellent tactical and then focus on the customer service benefits that we know this strategic decision, suppliers being very keen to get access to technology can provide.
our leverage and scale of distribution, with the resulting beneThe supply chain platform we are creating for our brands fits for them in additional sales and reduced costs.
This solution enhances customer service, improves efficiency, leverages improves availability, improves margin and reduces our impact group scale, supports margin and working capital improvement on the environment by consolidation of multiple supplier delivwhilst significantly reducing our operational impact on the envieries into single vehicle loads to branches.
This will continue to evolve into an efficient high service provides storage for the Tile Giant business following the closure model, supporting our brands to meet the ever increasing demands of our customers and helping them to remaining leaders in their respective markets.
Quality Assurance QA and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The prime responsibility of the group quality assurance department is to protect all of the group brands with two key objectives: Firstly, to ensure that Travis Perkins companies only use suppliers who have acceptable control of their manufacturing, environmental, ethical and health & safety processes: And secondly, to ensure that Travis Perkins companies only stock product that conforms to national and international regulations, is safe, fit-for-purpose and conforms to required specifications.
As our business has grown so has the challenge of QA.
At the end of 2008 the number of primary suppliers to the Group was in the order of 600, supplying in excess of 130,000 product lines.
As a result we have continued to invest in the QA department during 2008 whilst also improving the efficiency of its operations.
Within the supplier base there are 1,341 known manufacturing sites of own brand label products, of which 545 are based in Asia.
These figures represent an increase of 13% and 16% respectively against 2007, mainly as a result of our increased global sourcing activities.
We rank all our manufacturing sites through site audits and will shut operations down if they do not meet our exacting criteria.
We consider all Asian operations to be high risk and will not commit to supply until our team have audited a site.
We continue to maintain a Group QA Asia office based in Shenzhen, southern China, to fully support the Asian supplier base, in addition to the Group QA UK offices in the merchant and retail divisions.
Own brand is a key focus for our QA teams, however, 2008 of its three sites alongside additional storage space for our saw an extension of our primary supplier assessment growing portfolio of globally sourced own label products.
programme covering branded suppliers and major distributors.
A complex programme of consolidating our timber supply We audit the QA processes of our primary suppliers to ensure centres Kings Lynn, Aylesford, Ferndown and Cardiff from four they are following our rules when supplying to the Group.
A sites to three was completed in August improving efficiency and further 48 suppliers had audits during the year bringing the total cost while providing a strong operating platform for future growth to 105 suppliers assessed at primary level.
in the timber business In addition we have enhanced our product approval and In our branches, local distribution is a key requirement of product technical data bases to take account of our responsibil- 29 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 30 C H I E F O P E R A T I N G O F F I C E R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R ities in respect of REACH Registration, Evaluation and RestricM ARK ETI N G tions of Chemical Substances which came into force during the year.
In 2008, as we moved into more difficult trading conditions, we Objectives for 2009 include greater focus on product increased our trade marketing focus on retaining our customers failure and customer returns through direct feedback from and growing our share of their spend, driving footfall into our customers via our website business customer reviews, with branches and increasing our number of trading accounts.
further development of the strategic supplier development We continue to support our trade businesses in increasing programme for own brand their market and customer focus.
We will also further Our Brand Bullseyes guide everyextend our Asian operation and thing that we do and ensure that we skills to support our environment are focusing our activity in the areas and ethical obligations as our that matter most to our customers.
We ensure that each of our businesses is communicating in a way Suppliers and Global Sourcing that is targeted and relevant to their Manufacturers and suppliers are market, so ensuring we get the vital stakeholders to all brands and best returns on our marketing businesses within the Group, and we investment.
remain fully committed to estabWe are giving priority to lishing long term and collaborative improving the quality of our customer relationships with all our major data, allowing us increasingly to suppliers, whether UK based or segment and analyse our customers, International.
identifying those who offer us the Within the merchanting busimost potential and making sure we nesses we primarily support manuput together offers and activity to facturers that develop and produce meet their needs.
We have develproducts that have high and tangible oped marketing plans to cover all brand equity, are of the utmost high stages of the customer journey, from quality and utilise leading technology.
acquiring and welcoming new We do however also have a substancustomers through to reactivating tial requirement for own brand and dormant accounts.
The programme own label products throughout the has successfully delivered additional Group to meet our customers expectations and requirements, business to our branches, and we continue to measure and refine most notably within Wickes.
Wickes is largely an own label, the activity to generate profitable sales.
limited assortment retailer, where customers rely on our sourcing It is becoming increasingly important for our branches to teams to find and present the best value products pitched at be able to promote themselves locally.
We have set up a fast brand leader quality for each product type.
and cost effective system to allow branches to order personWe continue to invest and strengthen our direct sourcing alised advertising materials via our intranet.
This ensures we capability and have enjoyed an increase in volumes and margin produce consistent materials that meet our brand guidelines benefits as a result of this activity.
We very much take our and comply legally.
responsibilities and overall business risk extremely seriously and In order to offer our customers better value and increase our continue to strengthen and enhance every aspect of the process buying and marketing efficiencies, we are also concentrating on of globally sourcing.
developing our own brand offering.
4Trade is being developed Due the differences in models between Wickes and the other as a good quality range of trade products sold across all businesses within the Group, we have expressed separately merchant businesses, replacing individual private label prodbelow the number of product suppliers and the percentage the ucts, so significantly reducing SKUs.
Iflo is our range of bathtop 50 suppliers represent in each channel: room components, offering bathroom installers and plumbers guaranteed good quality products at competitive prices.
We Trade business including Tile Giant 2008 2007 remain fully committed to offering our customers a full range of Number of product suppliers 7,050 6,750 manufacturers brands.
Top 50 representation of total purchases 59% 58% In 2008 we moved our in-house design, print and distribuWickes tion DPD facility to new premises, allowing us to work more Number of product suppliers 228 245 efficiently and take on additional work for the Travis Perkins Top 50 representation of total purchases 86% 84% Group.
We have moved a significant proportion of our literature and point of sale design and production to DPD, and have I would like to place on record our genuine thanks to all our already achieved annualised savings of 600k, with the addimajor suppliers, for their fabulous and continued support and tional benefit of cash flow improvement by moving work from efforts throughout 2008. outside suppliers to sit within the Group.
A significant cost saving 30 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 31 CHIEF OPER A TI NG OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE YE AR has been achieved by distributing printed materials to our branches using our existing distribution network.
We expect to continue to deliver additional savings whilst maintaining or improving the quality of our service.
In 2008, The Travis Perkins Group confirmed a three-year agreement to become title sponsor of the Travis Perkins plc Senior Masters at Woburn Golf Club.
The tournament will be played over the world-famous Dukes Course up to and including the tenth anniversary of the tournament in 2010.
Supported by five of our key suppliers - DeLonghi, Expamet, Knauf, Vaillant and Wavin - the 2008 event helped us to build customer relationships through hospitality, build awareness for our corporate and business brands and promote our product and service offering to current and potential customers.
The event was a great success with record attendance levels and many opportunities to get closer to our customers and suppliers.
We look forward to the 2009 and 2010 events producing even better results.
AN D FI NALLY 2008, as predicted, proved to be a most demanding year within and across all the operational and support functions within the Group.
However, it was the manner and the exceptional spirit of every single person, in each team, in each business, in each division and in each department, that rose to the challenges we faced, that proved to be the most impressive feature of the year.
We know markets and trading will remain extremely difficult for the foreseeable future, but we are so fortunate to have such a highly talented, and highly motivated group of people within the Travis Perkins Group.
I express my sincere thanks for their outstanding contributions and efforts during last year.
John Carter Chief Operating Officer 18 February 2009 31
