qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 21:59 Page 10 Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review The next phase of growth With world-class development assets, an extensive exploration portfolio and a strong balance sheet, the Group is exceptionally well positioned for major production growth from 2010 onwards.
2008 was our best year ever, when unprecedented success with the drill bit matched significant progress towards the development of two major new oil provinces.
Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer Record results and solid production Our reserves replacement ratio was 582%, averaging over Tullow has delivered record results for 2008 driven by a 200% per annum for the last three years.
Through our strong operational performance, higher oil and gas pricing, exploration and appraisal strategy we are realising the and profitable portfolio management offset by exploration true potential of our portfolio and as we continue to execute write-offs and impairments.
Whilst production decreased successful drilling campaigns, we expect to further enhance as anticipated by 9% to 66,600 boepd, average price and replenish our reserves and resources base.
The Jubilee realisations increased by 17% for oil and by 40% for gas.
field has resource potential of up to 1.8 billion barrels of oil.
Basic earnings increased by 335% to 30.9 pence per share.
This, together with the rest of the Groups Ghanaian acreage offers substantial upside, including the recently announced Our best exploration year ever Tweneboa discovery, which adds further resource potential In Ghana, exceptional drilling results led to a large extension of up to 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
of the Jubilee field and the opening of new deepwater plays.
In Uganda, we have exceeded the commercial threshold for On track for Jubilee first oil in 2010 development through a series of world-class discoveries, Phase 1 of the Jubilee field development in Ghana is on with more to come in this region from a strong portfolio of track for first oil in 2010, just three years after the initial high quality drilling prospects.
Tullow, as unit operator, has selected all major contractors and development drilling and facilities Major resource potential construction are under way.
The Jubilee partners have all Exceptional exploration and appraisal success with 17 sanctioned Phase 1 development and final government discoveries from 22 wells led to a 274 million barrel increase approval is pending resolution of the gas development plan.
in our reserves and resources.
This resulted in a revised total We have built a strong operating team in-country and will of 825 million barrels of reserves and resources at year end.
continue to strengthen this in 2009 to support the 10 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p10-11 vAW3.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 21:59 Page 11 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements installation and production phases of the development.
Establishing a deepwater operating capability is critical to Tullows key success factors the success of this project and is also a key competency We believe we have developed a unique set of required to pursue similar opportunities essential to deliver characteristics and competencies that will help continued long-term growth for Tullow.
us deliver the next phase of growth for Tullow.
We are very clear about the large responsibility we have to ensure that the new offshore industry in Ghana is Entrepreneurial spirit page 12 managed in a sustainable and safe manner, minimising its environmental impact and ensuring that we are good neighbours to the local community.
Excellent execution page 24 Commercial threshold exceeded in Uganda Investment in two substantial drilling campaigns in Right skills page 28 Uganda has resulted in material discoveries including the world-class Buffalo-Giraffe and Kingfisher fields, which have discovered gross resources of approximately Proven expertise page 36 600 million barrels of oil.
A dedicated team will now define the optimal method to commercialise these resources.
High-grading our exploration portfolio Elsewhere in Cte dIvoire, Mauritania, the Netherlands, Portugal and South America, we continue to high-grade our interest in the mature offshore Hewett fields and related exploration portfolio by pursuing the most prospective plays infrastructure, including the onshore Bacton terminal.
as we prepare for high-impact drilling in 2010.
Financial strength Difficult economic climate The Tullow Management and Board are fully committed to The current economic climate is presenting many challenges our vision of being the leading independent exploration and across all sectors and within our industry.
We are working production company and building our portfolio of assets for in an unprecedented credit environment and with volatile the longer term.
Our balance sheet is strong and well funded.
Therefore, we have to We secured a US$2 billion 1.4 billion bank facility in March maintain a fine balance between our short-term priorities 2009 following a successful share placing in January 2009 and continuing to invest for long-term future growth, whilst which raised gross proceeds of 402 million and increased remaining in a position to take advantage of the inevitable Tullows existing share capital by 9.1%.
The ability to achieve opportunities the current market will present.
our funding requirements reflects strong banking and investor confidence in our business, particularly in the Stringent capital allocation context of the current economic climate.
During the year, we undertook a strict capital allocation process and identified activities that we could delay in Key focus for 2009 order to focus resources on our key projects in Ghana and For 2009, the Group is focused on progressing Phase 1 Uganda.
Therefore, we have been particularly stringent in of the Jubilee project in Ghana, fast-tracking the the allocation of capital, to ensure that we remain financially commercialisation of Ugandan reserves and executing strong through these turbulent times for the global economy selective high-impact exploration and appraisal campaigns.
The Group is in a very strong position, from an operational As a consequence, we made a positive decision to delay and financial perspective, to deliver these exciting and some activities into later years.
This means that we will transformational projects as we move into our next phase not fully offset the natural decline in some of our UK and of growth.
African fields and the expected production outcome for 2009 is 60,000 boepd.
It is however important to recognise that a key criterion in deciding which activities could be deferred is to make sure we do not destroy any asset value by delaying infill or development activities.
Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer Planned asset management Planned and opportunistic asset management is a subset of effective capital management and we continue to fundamentally review our assets and actively manage our portfolio.
In 2008, we made a profit after tax of 244 million, primarily from the sale of Tullows Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 11 TU017 p12-13 vAW3.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:01 Page 12 Driller working on the Kingfisher-3A well, Uganda.
Entrepreneurial spirit Unique characteristics that deliver superior performance Tullow has an entrepreneurial leadership team who have An appetite for managed risk, active portfolio management demonstrated a flexible and creative approach to building and a strong balance sheet ensures that the Group can a strong business and portfolio of assets.
execute its ambitious growth plans.
These plans are built on solid foundations and strong relationships with partners, A flat organisation and integrated decision-making allows governments, employees, contractors, operators and local the Group to anticipate and respond quickly to business communities, developed over many years.
issues or opportunities as they arise.
A balanced mix of professional management and industry experts, with a diverse blend of skills and disciplines, gives Tullow the depth and strength to deliver an excellent operational performance and strong execution on major projects.
12 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p12-13 vAW3.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:02 Page 13 Record growth Building our team 2010 and beyond It has been a successful five years: We continually invest in our team and While first oil is targeted from Jubilee the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004: increase the capability of the business in 2010 and development plans for followed by the discovery of a major so that we are always prepared to move Uganda are well under way, the Group oil province in Uganda: quickly to the next level.
In 2008,170 people is also continuing to high-grade its consolidated through the acquisition joined Tullow in readiness to take on exploration portfolio focusing on of Hardman Resources: world-class further operational challenges that the most prospective plays for discoveries in Ghana: and exceptional will continue to deliver significant high-impact drilling campaigns exploration success in 2008. shareholder value.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 13
