Report of the Directors Chief Executive Officers review It is a great pleasure to report Taking this role is an honour and privilege, but equally a huge responsibility.
These are tough times: and tough times demand to you for the first time as the very best of all of us.
That is the spirit in which I intend to take the business forward.
Unilevers Chief Executive Despite the fact that I have joined the Group at a time of Officer.
I am delighted to be unprecedented economic turmoil, my first message to you is a positive and reassuring one: your company is in good shape.
The a part of the team and to have scale and the extent of the changes over the last four years have the opportunity of leading been a positive surprise to me.
They have made Unilever stronger and more confident, well placed to weather the storms currently this great company.
blowing through all sectors of the economy.
I want first, therefore, to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of Unilever employees all around the world.
Thanks to their efforts, Unilever is a leaner, more focused business with a strong portfolio of leading brands.
All this is vital given the intense nature of the competitive and economic environment.
The transformation was led with a mixture of skill and determination by my predecessor, Patrick Cescau, and I want to take this opportunity to recognise Patricks accomplishments as Chief Executive.
He leaves a remarkable legacy: a wide-ranging change programme combined with steadily improving results.
In short, the engine was replaced while the car kept running.
Quite an achievement and I am grateful to Patrick for what he hands over.
Last year saw an acceleration of Unilevers transformation agenda.
The rationalisation of our manufacturing base continued across all regions.
During the last year we closed or sold a further 14 sites, bringing the total to 30 over the last two years.
We are now on course to exceed our target set in 2007 of closing or streamlining 50 to 60 sites by 2010.
All these projects are being handled with great sensitivity to the workforce.
Together they are helping to provide Unilever with a modern, cost competitive supply chain, capable of meeting st the demands of competing in the 21 century.
To further aid speed and efficiency, we have brought all our logistical and supply chain operations in Europe together in one regional structure based in Switzerland.
And we are currently embarked on a similar move in Asia by centralising our supply chain management for the region in Singapore.
The brand portfolio was further strengthened and sharpened.
This included the sale of the North American laundry business.
We also divested some smaller, non-strategic parts of our portfolio, including Boursin cheese, Lawrys seasonings and the Bertolli olive oil businesses.
These deals were all done at good prices, achieving significant value for the company.
At the same time, the acquisition in 2008 of the leading Russian ice cream maker, Inmarko, filled an important gap in a critical market for us.
And we are in the process of obtaining a vital entry into the fast-growing salon sector of the hair care market with our planned acquisition of the TIGI hair product business.
We are also alive to similar value-creating opportunities that may present themselves during the year.
Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer The One Unilever programme under which multiple business Underpinning these strengths, Unilever exhibits a set of deeply units are integrated into a single operating structure became ingrained values based on trust and integrity which date a reality across most of the Groups key markets, bringing back to the days of its founders and which are so well captured greater speed and simplicity to all our operations.
in the concept of doing well by doing good.
These values will never be compromised, no matter how difficult the economic These changes contributed to a good set of business results conditions become, and nor will the Groups commitment to in 2008.
We achieved strong underlying sales growth of 7.4%, help tackle deep-seated global issues in such areas as nutrition broadly based across all our major product categories.
In pursuit of these objectives we continue to work was driven by increased pricing as the Group moved quickly and closely alongside agencies like the World Food Programme WFP decisively to offset the unprecedented rise in commodity costs.
In 2008, our partnership with the WFP extended its scope to six countries and delivered 16 million meals to Supply chain and other organisational savings of more than 76 000 schoolchildren.
1 billion meant that we were also able to increase the level of investment behind our brands, while at the same time Given the increasing problems of resource scarcity around delivering an underlying improvement in operating margin.
the world, it is also vital that we take a lead on the issue of sustainable consumption.
That is why we have made a clear By any standards, this represents solid progress and a good commitment to move to sustainable palm oil sourcing by 2015 set of results.
and are working with Greenpeace and others to achieve this challenging objective.
However, despite the positive changes to the business, there are still a number of areas in which we need to improve.
Our market It was heartening to see the Groups commitment to these share positions suggest we are not yet winning in enough of the issues publicly recognised and rewarded in 2008.
For the tenth key categories and geographies in which we compete.
Market year running Unilever was named foods sector leader in the positions and brand strength are two key determinants of Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes the only company ever to long-term earnings capacity.
And the award of Platinum standard in the UKs Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Equally our costs are not yet at competitive levels.
Huge progress Index was further recognition of the Groups willingness to act has been made but again there is still work to do.
In order to as an agent for social and environmental improvement.
invest behind our brands and win the battles for the hearts and minds of an increasingly value conscious consumer, we must All these attributes, I believe, will not only help to sustain eliminate all the costs that consumers are unwilling to pay for.
the Group during a period of economic difficulty, but are also the pillars of long-term competitive advantage and a high Growing our volume base, while keeping closely focused on performing business.
protecting our margins and cash flow, will be our priority in 2009.
The economic environment is unprecedented and will require However, there is no cause for complacency.
We must not flexibility and fast action.
But Unilever has long experience of underestimate the challenges ahead.
If we are to prosper, we operating in difficult markets and at times of great economic will need to continue the programme of organisational change, stress.
It should be remembered that the Group was born in the further increasing our ability to move quickly and decisively in era of the Great Depression of the 1930s.
On each occasion response to shifting market dynamics.
But internal change must since, it has learnt from the experience and emerged stronger be accompanied by greater external focus: we have to put the and more resilient as a business.
There are good reasons to consumer and the customer at the heart of everything we do.
believe we can do so again.
This external focus, coupled with speed and discipline, will be the key to success.
For one thing, we possess a highly relevant and inspiring mission.
Vitality with its emphasis on helping people to feel good, look These will be our guiding principles as we manage the business good and get more out of life resonates with the hopes and through a period of continuing turbulence and prepare for the aspirations of consumers the world over.
Vitality is even more valid future.
We are also taking a number of additional steps: today as consumers face increasingly tough economic challenges.
We are driving brand innovation, the lifeblood of our business, to a new level.
The move to a One Unilever R&D structure That is why we have made it the theme of this years report and under the Groups Chief R&D Officer, Professor Genevive Berger, why we want to extend the concept of vitality right the way will help us to win in the marketplace by focusing on fewer, through our products, our organisation and our engagement bigger innovations and rolling them out more swiftly around with societies at large.
We have an excellent, balanced portfolio of strong brands We are also raising the bar when it comes to our supply chain.
fulfilling basic needs: 13 have an annual turnover of 1 billion or Through the appointment of a Global Supply Chain Officer, we more and we are not overly exposed to the premium sector at are looking for even better ways to leverage our scale in global a time when this segment of the market is under increasing buying and thereby reduce the overall cost of raw materials.
We have strong, well-established businesses in many In 2008 our supply chain savings were almost 100 million of the worlds fastest growing markets and our global presence greater than the previous year.
To drive the process even is building all the time.
Add to this the Groups simplified further we have appointed our first Chief Procurement organisation and a sound and healthy financial structure and Officer.
We expect a continued strong programme in you can see why, we believe, Unilever is so well placed to win.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
