The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Chief Executives Review 2008 proved to be the best operating year in Weirs history and the results reinforce our belief that we remain on the right path to sustainable long-term value creation.
The Groups 2008 input increased 30% to 1.4 billion with all three divisions enjoying positive market conditions for the majority of the year and first time contributions from the Groups acquisitions.
Annual revenue for 2008 increased by 34% to 1.4bn with each division achieving improved margin performance and turning in double digit top line and profit growth.
Excluding intangibles amortisation, the Group posted operating profit of 185.0m, up 58% on the prior year and delivering an earnings per share increase of 49% to 59.3p.
The Group generated 60.7m of free cash flow before acquisitions and disposals and returned 22.2% on capital invested.
The Group has three vibrant sector-focused growth platforms 2009 is expected to bring with it new In 2008, the Group restructured to bring absolute clarity to its markets and sectors and crystallised our strategies challenges for the world and its economies.
for each of the divisions.
These challenges will include recessions, rising unemployment and turmoil in the banking sector which will certainly impact on how our end markets perform.
We are taking actions to prepare the business for short-term pain but with an eye on the longer-term opportunities created by the impact of the crisis on less effective competition.
6 Chief Executives Review Minerals Division Oil & Gas Division Our Minerals Division is dedicated to achieving leadership The Oil & Gas Division includes the Groups upstream and in the supply and service of equipment for the mining, downstream businesses along with the substantial Oil & Gas flue gas desulphurisation and oil sands markets.
service operations across the globe.
Order input grew 62% to 289m 2007: 179m, with good progress across all As the worlds leading supplier of equipment for the of the divisions most significant markets and a contribution processing and transportation of slurries we are harnessing of 142m from recent acquisitions.
48% of input related our technology, expertise and passion to reduce product to original equipment, 23% to spares and 29% to life costs and maximise value for customers.
the Groups leadership position we continue to develop our geographic presence and extend service offerings Revenue increased 40% to 280m 2007: 200m, across the globe.
Early indications show that by extending including a contribution of 157m from Weir SPM, Mesa these offerings on a global business platform we will be and Standard Oilfield Services SOS.
Operating profit better positioned for future growth.
including joint ventures before intangibles amortisation increased 62% to 61.0m 2007: 37.6m, while margins Order input grew 23% to 805m 2007: 656m, with reflected the significant contribution from the divisions good progress across the Groups mining markets and higher margin acquisitions and increased to 21.8% particularly strong conditions in the Indo Pacific markets.
Revenue increased 30% to 742m 2007: 570m, with significant growth in South America, Africa and China The results for upstream businesses include a full year combining with contributions from Warman and Weir contribution from Weir SPM, which was acquired in July Multiflo.
Operating profit before intangibles amortisation 2007.
The business has been successfully integrated and the increased 39% to 114.5m 2007: 82.3m, while margins Weir Production System is fully implemented, including Lean increased to 15.4% compared with 14.4% in 2007. manufacturing, 5S housekeeping standards and improved infrastructure at all of its service centres.
Our Minerals Division experienced strong market conditions throughout 2008 and grew its order book substantially Weir Gabbioneta was selected for the supply of pumps for a quarter on quarter.
Original equipment accounted for renewable diesel production plant in Rotterdam, which is 52% of the years input with spares and service making expected to contribute to a significant reduction in exhaust up the balance.
emissions and will achieve first production in 2011.
In Singapore, a similar renewable energy plant is due to be While all businesses within the Minerals Division performed launched at the end of 2010.
Using palm oil as its base strongly in 2008, the Netherlands operation deserves material, the plant is expected to place Singapore at the special mention due to its significant and continued success centre of biofuel production.
in new project work for major pipelines.
In 2008, the Netherlands business grew its revenue to 104m against Also in the year, we acquired two smaller businesses to 75m in the prior year.
expand the product and geographic positioning of the Oil & Gas Division.
First, Mesa, a privately owned pump and During the year, there were significant orders for new project flow equipment business in Texas which is aligned to the capital equipment including the award of a joint bid between customers and markets of Weir SPM.
The second was the the Australian and Netherlands businesses for BHP Billitons acquisition of a 75% shareholding in SOS, an oil services Worsley Alumina project in Western Australia.
The expansion business in Baku.
will increase production by 30% and is due to come on line in the first half of 2011.
In March, Warman was acquired and substantially increased Power & Industrial Division Minerals position in the high growth African market.
In the The Power & Industrial Division includes the combined period of ownership, Warman contributed 45m of input, activities of the Groups valves operations, our speciality 45m of revenue and 7.4m of operating profit to Minerals pump business in the United States and the power related 2008 results.
The new enlarged business is making service centres in Canada, Europe, India, the Middle East excellent progress.
The division achieved significant success in the year and put clarity to its plans to grow the Groups position in the global power and related markets.
7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The businesses supply critical safety valves to the power Tough to call 2009 but great start to the year generation markets while our global network of service The Group enters 2009 with a strong order book and well operations specialises in the maintenance, upgrade and developed plans to respond to the effects of slowing activity management of power and industrial assets.
in our most important markets.
Order input grew 29% to 271m 2007: 211m, with 44% The outlook for Minerals will be impacted by the general related to original equipment, 10% to spares and 46% to market slowdown.
The year commenced with a much service activities.
The power sector made excellent progress improved order book but we expect a general reduction increasing by more than 75% to 150m against 86m in in activity levels as inventories realign to demand.
Revenue increased 11% to 223m 2007: 201m, We expect new capital spend to decrease which will be with significant growth in the power markets in China, reflected in reduced input in the first half of the year.
In the North America and the United Kingdom.
Operating profit second half, a corresponding decline in original equipment before intangibles amortisation increased 34% to 18.0m revenue is anticipated which will continue into 2010.
2007: 13.4m, while margins increased to 8.1% against Divisional profitability will be principally driven by the 6.7% in 2007. volume of spares and service and our ability to offset During the year, the division was awarded new build, reducing overhead recovery from lower volumes of upgrade and maintenance work in all of its core markets.
The French business secured new nuclear programmes in In Oil & Gas, we have already responded to a lower level China while the Services business was awarded an 11m of activity in our upstream business.
Assuming economic contract to upgrade a power generation operation in Libya.
conditions remain consistent with the early part of the year, we would expect 2009 revenue to be up to 30% below Successful corporate activities accelerating focus the second half 2008 run rate.
and growth Our downstream business has sufficient original equipment During the year, the Group made one significant and two order coverage to support its volume needs through a large smaller acquisitions which, combined with a full year from part of 2009 and we are yet to experience any slowing of Weir SPM, contributed input of 186m, revenue of 203m spares volume.
and operating profit excluding intangibles amortisation The outlook for Power & Industrial remains broadly positive of 48m in 2008.
The integrations have been well executed with a global need for infrastructure spend supporting a and all of the Groups acquisitions have exceeded strong medium-term outlook.
In 2009, funding availability performance targets.
is expected to delay some new build activities but with a In addition, the Group made three disposals of operations corresponding increase in upgrade and maintenance work.
where end markets were not aligned to the strategic The Groups current order book, combined with good ambitions of the Group.
The sale of each of these businesses operational performance and the benefits from positive was designed to eliminate the Groups exposure to nonforeign currency translation effects, have provided a strong core markets and sectors and to open up resources to focus start to 2009.
We are, however, unable to predict with any on the future direction of the Group.
These businesses certainty the market conditions which will prevail in the collectively had 2007 revenues of 100m and contributed latter part of the year.
7m of profits to the respective divisions to which they reported at that time.
We have clear operational and strategic focus for 2009 Mark Selway 2009 is expected to bring with it new challenges for the Chief Executive world and its economies.
These challenges will include 10 March 2009 recessions, rising unemployment and further turmoil in the banking sector which will certainly impact on how our end markets perform.
Group-wide processes have been activated to monitor early warning indicators, develop scenarios and implement downturn response actions.
We are taking actions to prepare the business for the short-term, but with an eye on the longer-term, while remaining focused on operational efficiencies, cash generation and lowering our costs.
