Chief Executives Review Taking transformational steps The core of our business is an extensive retail estate of around 2,300 shops that generate around 82% of our total net revenue.
Ralph Topping Chief Executive Overview Our retail business Offering a broad product range Our strategy aims to deliver William Hill is one of the UKs largest In our shops, we offer an extensive sustainable earnings growth and bookmakers and also operates in range of betting opportunities, value for shareholders by: Ireland, with a total of approximately including UK horse racing, greyhound Continuing to enhance the 2,300 LBOs that provide betting racing, football, overseas horse racing earnings of our core retail business opportunities on a wide range of and numbers betting.
Since 2001, by maximising organic growth sporting and non-sporting events when a change in the tax regime opportunities and effectively and, in the UK only, offer gaming made lower-margin products more managing costs: machines.
In this consolidated market, commercially attractive, we have Exploiting the growth opportunity we aim to maximise the significant been able to offer a greater range in online betting and gaming: and cash generation from this business of products on gaming machines Selectively pursuing valueby growing gross win while carefully in our shops, which now generate enhancing acquisitions.
around one third of the gross win from the high street retail channel.
We believe we can continue to grow our retail business by: Capitalising on opportunities created developing our retail estate: by fiscal and regulatory changes offering a broad product range: and We have successfully grown our retail capitalising on any opportunities channel by capitalising on fiscal created by fiscal and regulatory and regulatory changes and we changes.
will continue to adapt to such opportunities as they arise.
To date, Developing our estate these include responding to the Through an ongoing development change from a turnover-based tax and modernisation programme, we system to a gross profit tax system by continue to expand our estate in expanding the number of products the UK and to upgrade the location, offered by gaming machines facilities and size of our LBOs in and responding to the growth order to deliver incremental growth.
We operate a rigorous process for prioritising capital expenditure for Managing our costs both maintenance of the estate and Given the relatively high fixed costs value-creating investments in order to necessary to operate this business achieve our target returns on capital.
effectively, changes in gross win can have a significant effect on operating profit.
We, therefore, place considerable emphasis on cost control.
For example, we have recently adopted a more efficient LBO staffing model and undertaken a detailed analysis of the effectiveness of extended winter evening opening.
William Hill 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information The internet-based gaming and betting market is expected to continue to grow at double-digit rates for at least the next three to five years.
Our online business We believe that, following this Acquisitions Initially, we benefited from a first-mover transaction, William Hill Online has We believe we can continue to advantage in this market and built several strengths that can support deliver further shareholder value a market-leading position in the UK.
significant growth, including: from selective acquisitions, although During the last two years, our lead was a large, geographically diverse the scale of our existing UK retail eroded and we lost market share as a customer base: channel is likely to preclude further result of aggressive competition.
Since improved marketing and substantial acquisitions in this area.
coming in as Chief Executive, one of customer management: and We have a good track record, my key changes has been to refocus an extensive affiliate network.
including the acquisition of Stanley the business on this opportunity and, Leisures UK retail betting operations in October 2008, we announced a In addition, we expect William Hill in 2005, which established William Hill significant step forward in the shape Online to benefit from Playtechs as the leading UK retail betting and of an agreement with Playtech Ltd. improved poker and casino software, gaming company by number of LBOs, in relation to which we have entered and numerous, smaller bolt-on LBO Under this agreement, we acquired into a software agreement for a acqusitions.
The Playtech, transaction certain assets, contracts and minimum of five years.
We expect this announced in October 2008, businesses from Playtech, including software to provide greater liquidity established William Hill Online as around 30 gaming websites, a for poker and to support activities to one of the leading European online customer services operation and increase customer retention, customer betting and gaming businesses.
reactivation and player lifetime values.
The transaction combined two highly complementary businesses.
We We launched a new casino website brought a strong brand, sports betting and a new poker website on the expertise and an established UK highly liquid Playtech poker network customer base and profit stream.
The acquired assets brought online marketing and customer retention Our strategy for William Hill Online is to: expertise, an extensive affiliate integrate our existing business and network to drive customers to our the acquired assets within six to nine websites and an established European months of completion of the customer base and profit stream.
acquisition on 30 December 2008: seek to retain customers for a longer We have an option to acquire period by applying the specialised Playtechs interest in William Hill online marketing and customer Online on an independent fair-value management skills and by crossbasis, exercisable at either four years selling the full range of sports betting or six years after completion of the and gaming products: original acquisition.
exploit the improved Sportsbook, poker and casino offerings, which were launched in December 2008 and January 2009: and acquire new customers in the UK and Europe and, over time, expand our customer base in other key countries.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Chief Executives Review Q&A The first year William Hill 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review We are no longer just a bookmaker.
Between our internet sites and the machines in our betting offices, gaming accounted for 37% of our net revenue in 2008.
Ralph Topping was appointed Q How resilient do you think the high-quality, deep-liquidity poker Chief Executive of William Hill in your business will be during network we needed.
He reflects on his this recession?
those assets together with the things first year in charge.
A We would never claim to be we already do online to create a recession proof but there are new entity William Hill Online, one of Q How would you describe the reasons why we would expect the leading European online gaming last year?
In the last and sports betting businesses.
A Our task is to give our customers recession in 1991, our top line what they want, when they want it, declined by 7% but were a very I was in at the start of the internet where they want it.
For me, the last different business today we have at William Hill.
Ive always said I year has been about putting the a wider geographical base, a wanted us to be a top three company back on that track.
Ive more extensive product range, a European player in online betting taken big decisions.
I scrapped broader customer base and were and gaming, and the clear leader our internal IT development project competing against fewer shops.
among the traditional UK operators.
and moved our Sportsbook to Were also online and have gaming Having been there at the beginning, Orbis platform.
I pulled out of Italy machines in the shops.
Plus, it should I am passionate about turning because that wasnt going to go not be forgotten betting is a lowaround the fortunes of this part of anywhere quickly.
ticket form of entertainment for a our business.
In the shops, And I turned the focus on gaming the average bet is around 8 but as a driver of growth.
Our future is the most frequent bets are around in betting and gaming, which led 2 to 3. us to do the deal with Playtech that established William Hill Online.
We Q What was the thinking behind are no longer just a bookmaker.
Between our internet sites and the A Before the Playtech deal, we had machines in our betting offices, the top flight brand, the betting gaming accounted for 37% of expertise, established UK customers our net revenue in 2008. and good profits.
But, on the downside, our e-gaming capacity Q Whats changing at William Hill was marginal and we were weak with you in charge?
Thats why I was A After 37 years in this company, I determined to change the business.
believe I know what can put us at The assets we acquired from the top of the league, and brains Playtech have given us websites, and talent are a big part of that.
terrific online marketing and Im a team builder so Ive been customer retention expertise, a changing structures, moving people vast affiliate network that will drive around and recruiting new people.
customers to our websites and an The biggest change came with the established European customer deal we did with Playtech, which base and profit stream.
On top brought us brands and brains.
To of that, we get a continuing give you some idea of what I mean, partnership and software deal we had 10 marketing people in with Playtech, the worlds largest Leeds but the marketing team in gambling software provider, and Israel that we acquired has 160 people.
If you want internet brains these days in abundance, you go abroad.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Business Review One of Europes leading online betting and gaming businesses The launch of William Hill Online William Hill Online is now one of Europes leading betting and gaming businesses following the combination of our existing online sports betting and gaming products with assets acquired from Playtech in return for a 29% stake in the new online business.
As a result of this transaction, which we successfully completed in December 2008, William Hill Online has a market-leading position in Europe, a larger, geographically diverse customer base, improved marketing and customer management, and an extensive affiliate marketing network.
William Hill 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 B Business Re usiness Revie view w William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
