04 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Chief Executives business review Marc Bolland Strategy Our three year strategy, as laid out in our 2007 Annual report, is to position the business as the UKs food specialist for everyone.
This builds on our historic strengths, now applied to a much bigger business following the Safeway acquisition.
As a food specialist, we are differentiating ourselves from our larger competitors, all of whom are seeking to expand their nonfood credentials.
We are emphasising our deep understanding of food, through being closer to source than other retailers, through our unique manufacturing and packing facilities, through the amount of food preparation undertaken in our stores and through the employment of more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than our competitors.
We are also emphasising that our offer is for everyone, compared with our smaller, more expensive and exclusive competitors.
Our great food is also always great value.
Our strategy builds on our strengths, and is in tune with our customers increasing focus on the health, provenance, quality and freshness of the food that they buy.
In order to deliver it fully, we outlined last year the building blocks that needed to be put in place, and our plans to do this by 2010.
The operating review of the year highlights our progress towards these goals.
This has been a strong year for We believe that the strategy has delivered strongly improved profit margins for our shareholders, whilst also positioning the Morrisons, with growing customer Group for long term growth.
We have always delivered good availability and service.
Now we The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet.
We are confident that our planned investment requirements are also recognised for our great fresh over the next two years can be met from existing facilities.
Customer numbers have grown Our balance sheet strategy is based on a number of principles: by an extra half million per week and operational control of our retail stores is fundamental to us, we are well on track to becoming the food specialist for everyone.
we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances Marc Bolland, Chief Executive accordingly, we wish to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet, our defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are effectively part of our balance sheet, and should be managed as such.
Based on these principles and a review of our future operating plans, the Board has concluded that surplus capital of 1bn should be returned to shareholders during 2008 and 2009, with 500m of that delivered in the first 12 months of the programme.
Our current intention is to achieve this through a share buyback programme, and we will review progress at the end of the first year of operation.
Additionally, we will target progressive dividend growth in the coming two years, over and above earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover to a level in line with the rest of our sector.
Funding for these enhanced returns to shareholders will come from existing cash resources and committed facilities available to the Group.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 05 Food specialist for everyone market positioning One of the conclusions of the strategic review of the In order to become the food specialist for everyone, business performed last year, was that customers who knew we need to establish these credentials firmly, and our new us liked what we had to offer.
They understood the quality advertising campaign launched in the summer of 2007, aims and freshness of the offer that is centred on the skills and to achieve this through the message Fresh Choice for You.
service in the heart of a Morrisons store, Market Street.
The Market Street concept gives a focus to delivering quality food and a high level of customer service.
Most important factors for deciding where to shop % This, combined with our own packaging and production facilities, helps us to deliver affordable prices.
This is why Value 44 customers who know us, like us.
Quality 33 Market research see graph shows that the top two reasons Locality 32 why customers are attracted to the big four supermarkets Range 24 are for value and quality.
Another finding from our research was that consumers who were not our customers knew us for Service 12 our value offering but were surprised to learn of our in-store Source: Target Group Index 12 months to March 2007 expertise and food quality.
What makes us Brand value distinctive Customer benefit Business goal Fresh preparation Fresher food leading to in-store and vertical better quality in every integration in the basket of shopping.
supply chain gives Fresh improved lead times and a unique understanding of the provenance of our fresh food.
By keeping our costs No better value place low we ensure that our to buy a full weekly Sales growth that prices are competitive.
exceeds that of the Great promotional market and earnings Value offers 1,000 per that meet the week provide even expectations better value.
Market Street answers The right product the consumers desire always available, and for freshly prepared specialists on hand to food, served by helpful, help customers with Service qualified staff.
availability of product leads the industry.
Food specialist for everyone Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
