Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 05 Group Chief Executives review Overview However, the US commercial and industrial The key actions taken during the year and markets have remained stable.
The Groups since the year-end are as set out below: We are now entering the third European division achieved revenue growth financial year where macroalthough profits declined, reflecting a rapid 1.
Cost cutting economic conditions have deterioration in market conditions in the Annualised savings of 176 million are UK in the final three months of the financial expected from business improvement continued to have a profound year and a softening in many other initiatives and actions taken to reduce impact on our industry and European markets.
headcount by 7,100 and close 270 consequently the Groups branches.
To achieve these savings, the Despite the lower profitability, operating Group incurred 76 million of exceptional financial results.
In fact, in cash flow performance was strong at restructuring costs in the year ended many ways, the current cycle 1,262 million 2007: 1,299 million 31 July 2008.
The 2008 results benefited reflects some of the toughest reflecting increased focus by the Group by around 47 million of these savings.
in this area over the past two years.
We market conditions that I have have established aggressive improvement Since 1 August 2008, another 600 seen in my 30 years in the targets for each business in inventory, people have left the Group.
receivables and payables and intend are in the process of being developed to keep all of our operating companies to carry out additional restructuring focused on keeping up the momentum.
In particular, a There are no signs of any immediate fundamental review is currently being upturn in our principal markets and the Further details of market conditions undertaken to reduce Stocks impact constraints on liquidity in global financial and financial performance in each of on the Groups results.
markets, which are driving the cyclical the Groups businesses are set out in the downturn, show no signs of abating.
With Performance review on pages 10 to 31.
Cash flow and debt this in mind, our focus within the current The rigorous focus on cash flow environment remains unchanged and has Actions to cut costs and reduce continues, with further improvements been firmly on the areas we can continue net debt in working capital ratios.
Spot cash to to influence aggressive cost reduction During the year we have remained focused cash days improved by 5.9 days 11.4 and cash flow enhancement.
on positioning Wolseley to meet the per cent, from 51.8 days at 31 July 2007 challenges created by the increasingly to 45.9 days at 31 July 2008.
This reflects We are resolute in our determination to difficult market conditions.
Throughout this an improvement of 30 per cent in working take the appropriate action to position the period we have also remained cognisant capital days over the last two years.
The business to respond to the current market of the need to ensure the Group remains benefits of the distribution centre DC conditions.
We will drive our business hard, compliant with its borrowing covenants, network have helped Ferguson Enterprises take the necessary decisions to lower our which require net debt to be less than Ferguson to reduce inventory by cost base and continue to generate strong 3.5 times annualised EBITDA, before 23.4 days 30 per cent in the past two cash flow to further reduce net debt.
At 31 July 2008, net years, while improving service levels to doing this, I strongly believe we will be debt to EBITDA before exceptional items customers.
In Europe, cash to cash days better placed for the challenges ahead was 2.7 times EBITDA, which was well improved significantly by 13.6 days to and to benefit from the market recovery within the Companys agreed covenants.
30.9 days 2007: 44.5 days, reflecting when it occurs.
a 15.1 days improvement in the UK, We will continue to take the necessary 11.6 days improvement in France and Group results action to preserve cash and reduce 5.6 days improvement in Central and Our results this year have continued to overheads in order to protect our profit Eastern Europe C&EE, as a direct reflect the deteriorating US housing market position, while at the same time, generating result of the focus and initiatives to and reducing consumer confidence arising cash to reduce our debt.
We have a improve working capital during the year.
While the number of contingency plans in place These working capital reductions have principal effects of the liquidity squeeze to ensure continued compliance with been achieved without compromising have continued to be felt by the US our banking covenants should markets customer service levels.
In July 2008, consumer during 2008, in the second half deteriorate further.
Wolseley France entered into a receivables of the financial year we have increasingly factoring arrangement which reduced started to see the deterioration of market Since the year-end, additional actions net debt at 31 July 2008, by 74 million.
After currency have been taken which include further The additional cost of servicing this translation, Group revenue increased by restructuring and streamlining of arrangement is expected to be 2 million 2 per cent to 16,549 million 2007: management in key businesses, driving per annum.
An additional factoring facility 16,221 million although trading profit our working capital even harder, limited has been agreed by Wolseley France reduced by 22 per cent to 683 million asset disposals and curtailment of some since the year end, reducing net debt by 2007: 877 million, before charging 76 planned capital expenditure over the next a further 78 million, the incremental cost million of exceptional restructuring costs.
I would like to stress that of which is 3 million.
our actions will continue to be designed In North America, in addition to the impact to achieve the best long-term value for of the deteriorating US housing and repairs, the Group, ensuring that our strategic maintenance and improvement RMI objectives are not compromised and markets, the results were adversely that infrastructure is protected.
affected by price deflation in lumber and panels and the weakness of the dollar.
Group Chief Executives review 05 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 06 Group Chief Executives review Cash conversion was up at 185 per cent, Change Programme to conserve cash Three peripheral businesses that were compared to 148 per cent in the prior year.
and to avoid business disruption in current not strategic to Wolseley were disposed The Group is targeting an improvement of difficult markets.
Following the recent of in the year ended 31 July 2008, for a more than 10 per cent in working capital implementation in Switzerland, no further consideration of 18 million.
An additional cash to cash days in 2009, excluding the roll-out will take place in C&EE in 2009 3 million has been realised since the effect of receivables factoring.
and, as a consequence, the shared central year end.
services centre in Brno, Czech Republic Net debt was relatively unchanged at will close.
Plans to begin implementation Group strategy 2,469 million 2007: 2,467 million despite of the programme across Canada and While our short-term priority must remain an adverse currency translation impact extend the pilots in Ferguson are also on the cost base, it is critical we do not of 321 million, due to collective actions being deferred.
These delays have resulted lose sight of the need to continue to build taken to drive working capital improvement, in an impairment charge of 15 million being our long-term business model.
However, curtail capital expenditure and acquisitions incurred in the year ended 31 July 2008, this year we have needed to strike an and to make selective business and asset with 12 million related to C&EE and appropriate balance between continuing disposals.
Gearing was 73.5 per cent 3 million to central costs.
to take the necessary short-term actions compared to 71.5 per cent in July 2007 commensurate with the market conditions and 83.9 per cent in January 2008.
We remain absolutely committed to the we face, while maintaining the momentum The Group has committed and undrawn long-term delivery of the Business Change of driving our long-term strategy to build banking facilities available of 1.2 billion Programme.
Longer term, the programme a truly world class company.
as at 31 July 2008 and has no need for will continue to play a fundamental role in additional facilities until after the year enabling us to achieve the organisations The Group continues to place a great deal ended 31 July 2011. strategy and increase our long-term of emphasis on the Earn, Turn, Grow competitive advantage.
Specifically, the initiative which is now in its second year of 3.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions programme which will result in a common operation.
The programme has established The Group continues to adopt a highly IT platform for the Group will improve priorities for each business on margin selective approach to acquisitions with working capital efficiencies, and deliver enhancement, strong cash flow generation no further transactions completed since more efficient business processes and and growth.
This initiative has been widely the interim results announcement in better quality information, which will allow communicated across the Group with March 2008.
As previously indicated, us greater insight into our business, our clear objectives at the individual, branch, capital expenditure plans have also been suppliers and, of course, our customers.
Capital expenditure for the year is also being linked to performance ended 31 July 2008 was 317 million 4.
Asset disposals property, plant, measured against each area of focus.
2007: 396 million, compared to an equipment and businesses The continued success of the programme original estimate of 500 million, as all Wolseley continues to actively manage was evidenced this year by the Groups capital expenditure across the Group its portfolio of more than 900 properties strong cash flow performance.
The was carefully scrutinised and non-essential and, where it makes financial sense, objective of the Earn, Turn, Grow initiative projects, such as branch openings, routinely enters into sale and leaseback is to provide a framework for driving refurbishments, and other infrastructure arrangements or makes disposals.
As a improved performance and expectations projects, were postponed.
result, property, plant and equipment was across the Group.
This year there will be sold for 84 million during the financial continued emphasis on further enhancing Capital expenditure for the year ended year, realising a profit of 16 million 2007: working capital performance and increasing 31 July 2009 is expected to be further 62 million, with a profit of 27 million.
This Since the year end, a further eight follows the decision to continue to defer Ferguson properties have been sold for non-essential works and also to slow down 43 million, with a profit of 11 million.
the deployment of the Groups Business 06 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 07 In many ways, the current cycle reflects some of the toughest market conditions that I have seen in my 30 years in the construction industry.
Where appropriate, we continue to market and has ambitious plans for the Our CR strategy to support this is outlined selectively invest in our business and future.
Wolseleys distribution network in a five-year programme which sets will work to increase our competitive utilisation is a key competitive advantage out our principal areas of focus, helps us advantage.
We aim to deliver purchasing and differentiator in the marketplace.
define our priorities as an organisation and and sourcing opportunities that our to all our stakeholders.
We recognise we competitors find hard to replicate.
For Sourcing also continues to be a major are on a journey.
As ever, some of our example, during the year we added to source of competitive advantage and operating companies have shown excellent the DC capacity opening new facilities in this year Wolseley North America WNA improvements this year and the challenge Chorley, UK and Stockton, USA.
In France, launched a private label range that has is to instil a culture of best practice and the national DC which opened at the end been hugely successful.
Wolseley acquired continuous improvement throughout the of last year in Orlans is now operating the handtools brand Raptor through the Group.
You can read about our progress at very high service levels of more than acquisition of DT Group in September this year and our aspirations for the future 97 per cent.
This has led to reduced 2006, which is an established private label in the CR report on pages 32 to 39. inventory and it has also recently started to brand within their DIY business, Silvan in distribute plumbing and heating products.
WNA launched a new range of Summary Elsewhere this year we have rationalised Raptor tools geared for the North American We have continued to make good the supply chain in the UK, closing surplus market in February of this year, which progress this year in what has been warehouse facilities.
We are now also includes over 160 stock keeping units an extremely challenging period for seeing increased efficiencies at the national SKUs and is already generating significant the Group with many of our businesses DC in Leamington Spa.
sales and profits since its introduction.
continuing to gain market share.
In the Raptor has now been launched in over short term we remain very focused An example of the competitive advantage 1,300 Wolseley locations across North on aggressive cost reduction and an the DC network brings was highlighted this America and shares some of the same unrelenting drive for cash generation.
year in the retention, by Wolseley UK, of an global sources as DT Group, allowing I remain confident in the long-term important contract with one of its largest us to leverage our supplier relationships.
fundamentals of our markets and also customers, British Gas.
For over 25 years, that Wolseley will emerge from this Wolseley has supplied the energy company Corporate responsibility current downturn as a stronger with boilers, radiators and parts to install With the future firmly in mind, we will organisation, with an excellent platform and maintain domestic heating systems.
place greater emphasis on corporate for growth.
Recently Wolseley won more business responsibility CR and our vision is to from British Gas following their decision be one of the most trusted companies in to reduce suppliers from three to two.
the markets in which we operate.
We take An innovative, centralised solution was our responsibilities seriously.
Issues such devised, with deliveries direct to customers as the health and safety of our employees Chip Hornsby from dedicated branches within two DCs and customers and minimising the Groups Group Chief Executive replacing a decentralised branch-based adverse contribution to climate change system.
This was especially important as are important subjects for the Board, British Gas has grown in the installation and for me personally.
Group Chief Executives review 07 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 08 Customers are at the heart of our business and we never lose sight of that 08 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 01-09 3 10 08 14:42 Page 09 We have a wide range of customers Our primary customer focus is on Establishing good relationships with operating in different industry sectors professional contractors who work our customers is critical to obtaining ranging from the individual plumber or with households, governments, ongoing and repeat business that will builder through to national contractors, property developers and industrial secure our future success, as well as house builders and large industrial and companies in the construction of new that of our customers own businesses.
homes, offices and industrial buildings, or in the repair and maintenance of existing premises.
Group Chief Executives review 09 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 10-31 3 10 08 14:43 Page 10 Steve Webster Chief Financial Officer We have made good progress on improving working capital efficiency, and the focus on cost reduction and cash flow enhancement will continue.
