08 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the worlds best infrastructure consultancy.
Worlds Best Infrastructure Consultancy We will target We will seek to Buildings, transport, Our primary business chosen geographies, consistently anticipate utilities, Government model will be and develop deep and address our and industry and selling expertise.
their social and environmental context.
To be the worlds best infrastructure consultancy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 09 Atkins is a consultancy which exists to plan, We believe that our focus upon being Carbon Critical Design will affect everything design and enable our clients capital a multi-skill, multi-local consultancy, we do in the long term.
We aim to improve all aspects with the best combination of quality, expansive multi-skilled outlook.
It is no of our activities within well understood local understanding and breadth of skills, longer appropriate, for example, to segregate business models.
The strong performance will allow us to be trusted to deliver building design from structures, as the whole of the Group has demonstrated over the infrastructure projects more often than system must be optimised to reduce carbon.
last few years that this focus has been our competitors.
Bringing the extensive This makes Atkins supremely well placed to appropriate and the forecast of continued capabilities of the Group to bear at a local lead.
We design a very large part of the built high demand for capital programmes of level is therefore fundamental and will environment and we can engage clients increasing complexity dictates that it deliver superior performance.
aspiring to everything being carbon neutral Climate change is a significant issue for the but we are looking at an iterative journey The key to much of the activity that the world in which we live and it is becoming to reduce carbon in everything we do.
Group undertakes is the national and local a significant issue for many of our clients.
nature of the relationships we build with Apart from the normal social responsibility If we are successful in addressing all our clients.
The vast majority of our clients issues, we are focusing on the area of carbon of these areas, we will be well along continue to come to Atkins at a local level calculation and the carbon mitigation of the path to being the worlds best because we have key local relationships.
both the embedded elements and the infrastructure consultancy.
As a result we have fide-centralised our whole-life effects of our designs.
We have organisation, empowering local management termed this Carbon Critical Design.
We are as far as reasonably possible.
Many of our doing world-class work in a number of areas core skills and the values of our excellent but the practice of embedding carbon service culture have currency across the reduction into the design process is still in world, but we do not have a strategy of its infancy.
We need to act now to develop becoming a global company: instead our this capability so as to be able to respond strategy involves focusing our efforts to the emerging demand and ensure that where we are able to develop these deep clients can meet their carbon agendas over local relationships with our clients.
We call the next five to ten years.
We have therefore this part of our strategy multi-local.
set ourselves the challenge to resolve how we deliver Carbon Critical Design within In addition to developing local skills, our 100 weeks.
We are investing heavily this local management teams are able to draw year and next to raise awareness, develop upon the Groups wide range of skills and tools and actively engage with clients on resources.
One of Atkins key differentiators this important issue.
is the extensive range of skills that we have in the organisation.
There is rarely a technical question that cannot be answered by someone within the Group, allowing us to be flexible and to consider all options.
Our clients recognise that, by harnessing this breadth of skills, we can answer their questions better.
This part of our strategy we call multi-skill.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 10 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Continued Strategy process Strategy review Following the review we confirmed that The Atkins strategy is developed by an The 2007 review confirmed: we need to continue to: integrated process of establishing the Group priorities and evaluating the strengths of The primary objective of creating longReinforce our focus upon Identity the businesses within the Group.
Business term shareholder value as measured by and Excellence unit bottom-up five-year plans are therefore growth in normalised diluted earnings set in the context of the top-down Group per share can be achieved by both our Deepen and improve the quality of strategic aims.
business activity and our business model our service offering through recruiting, retaining and developing our staff We evaluate the market areas in which we Atkins will remain a consultancy and management may best use our skills, identifying any skill diversification by becoming a pure or market gaps, and formulate options for contractor, technology company or Follow appropriate sector opportunities approval at Board level.
developer is not an attractive option into new and related markets.
for the Group We review our strategy on an annual basis We have made good progress by increasing focusing on different aspects each year.
In Working across multiple markets gives us headcount by 24% in the past three years 2006 we established a new five-year plan robust underlying performance we will and a key element of this has been to apply for the Group providing medium-term focus on those markets that are attractive considerable effort in recruiting appropriately targets that ensured we would deliver and are aligned with the Groups strategy qualified staff in Sharjah, Bangalore and shareholder value.
In 2007 we revalidated Manila to work for our key home markets the fundamental aspects of the Group Demand for our services is present in the UK and Middle East.
We need to strategy and carried out a thorough market many countries across the world continue to focus on maximising the segmentation exercise to analyse options however we focus on those services and effectiveness of such intra-group working for the Group going forward.
The 2008 countries that will provide the best and continue to enhance the mobility and process will review five-year targets in light long-term returns for the Group flexibility of our staff.
This has improved of the strategic direction set in 2007 and materially in the past two years.
Company and market developments since.
The financial stewardship of the Group allows a return of capital to shareholders With confidence in our markets over the whilst retaining considerable financial medium term, the Group has robust capacity to pursue organic growth and foundations from which to build.
to exploit suitable strategic opportunities that might arise Business Unit strategy The Groups decentralised structure and The recruitment, retention and empowered management allow businessdevelopment of our staff remain level strategy to be established very close key to growth.
to the customer, leveraging the competitive advantage that being part of a larger group brings.
Decisions about product and market diversity form part of the Group-level strategy.
Consequently, the business units can focus on the excellence of their offering in specific areas where the Groups capability is best used to advantage.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 11 Each business considers its strategy In the UK alone the market size for Conditions in 2008 for addressing its market taking into engineering and design has been estimated The requirement for new and upgraded 1 consideration various factors: at nearly 14 billion.
The top 150 design infrastructure remains and many of our firms in the world generate revenue of important markets are buoyant.
Competition 2 Competitive advantage the ability of more than 40 billion.
While growth and for resources to deliver projects is strong, the business to differentiate itself from consolidation continues at the top end, which also provides a healthy indicator of the local competition there remains an endless tail of small the markets in which we work.
However, consultancies capable of competing whilst we have been successful in improving Resource-based advantage the skills for significant percentages of most the attractiveness of Atkins as an employer and capabilities that the Group has that market sectors.
in recent years, we are also experiencing may confer a unique advantage increased upward pressure on remuneration.
In the UK, the New Civil Engineer NCE Our direct exposure to the commercial Operational advantage ways in which survey regularly puts Atkins in the top four property market in the UK is limited, but we may understand our business models across a wide range of sectors.
The UK we are mindful of indirect consequences better and improve our products.
market continues to grow and Atkins is of a prolonged downturn and the timing increasing its market share.
The Group has of projects may be subject to some Atkins position in each of its home markets also been successful in building meaningful variability in the short term.
is strong and, increasingly, multiple business domestic businesses in the Middle East, units are being brought together to deliver the US and some European markets.
complex projects in various parts of the world.
Acquisitions and organic investment will continue to be considered which deepen Keith Clarke Strategic position the Groups skill base and strengthen our Chief Executive The environment market position, usefully accelerating our 25 June 2008 In the medium term, global drivers will multi-local, multi-skill business model.
bring unprecedented change to the worlds infrastructure, not least growing urban populations and all the issues connected with sustainability and climate change.
1 Survey of UK Construction Professionals 2005 06 Quality, local understanding and breadth Davis Langdon Management Consulting, July 2007. of skills will therefore continue to be 2 Engineering News Record, 23 July 2007. in demand.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Building Construction and Project Management Defence Environment Facilities Management Flooding and Coastal Geotechnics Health and Safety Manufacturing Ports, Harbours, Airports and Canals Power Public Sector Rail Rail Bridges Roads Road Bridges Telecommunications Transport Planning Tunnelling Waste Water 12 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Our strategy Continued Summary Mission Strategy We exist to plan, design and enable Objective capital programmes.
The aim of the Group is to maximise shareholder return over the long term.
Scope The Group will operate as a multi-local, multi-skill consultancy.
We will continue to evolve world-class skills in  Vision disciplines.
We will focus these skills in selected home geographies where our full capability can The Group intends to be the worlds best be brought to bear.
Advantage Our breadth and depth of skills give us the ability to deliver simple solutions to complex questions.
The reputation we build will attract employees and customers worldwide.
We will help to deliver the changes demanded of infrastructure in a carbon critical world.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews Reviews 14 Human Resources Review 18 Operating and Financial Review 18 Overview of the business and performance in the year 20 Segmental performance 20 Design and Engineering Solutions 22 Highways and Transportation 24 Rail 26 Middle East, China and Europe 30 Management and Project Services 32 Asset Management 33 Discontinued operations 34 Financial performance 37 Principal risks and uncertainties 38 Corporate Responsibility Review
