Strategy: Business Review Chief Executives Report Xstratas business achieved a highly creditable result in 2008, generating EBITDA of $9.7 billion.
Mick Davis Key points: Chief Executive Strong operating performance and successful integration of acquisitions Seven consecutive years of sustainable real cost reductions 2 for 1 rights issue to raise approximately $5.9 billion Acquisition of Prodeco, world-class Colombian thermal coal operations To see a webcast of our results presentation, visit www.
com 12 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Despite the sudden and severe impact of a global banking crisis that The response from nickel producers has perhaps been the most rapid dramatically slowed economic growth from the third quarter and led and significant, with over one-fifth of global supply suspended or to a precipitous fall in commodity prices, Xstratas businesses achieved a closed to date and further cutbacks expected.
One million tonnes highly creditable result in 2008, generating EBITDA of $9.7 billion, 11% of zinc or 9% of planned zinc production has been idled or closed.
lower than the record profitability achieved in 2007.
Earnings per share At the same time, significant proportions of ferrochrome capacity and 24 million tonnes or 13% of planned coking coal production of $4.90 were 13% lower than the prior year.
The impact of markedly has been removed from the traded market as cutbacks continue lower commodity prices in the final quarter was largely offset by the to be implemented in response to weak demand from steelmakers.
benefit of record thermal and coking coal and ferrochrome contracts settled during the year, together with robust copper prices for the In the copper market too, previously planned global copper production majority of 2008. in 2009 is expected to be reduced by at least 9% or 1.6 million tonnes due to production cutbacks and suspensions and the ongoing impact A strong operating performance at Xstratas coal, alloys, nickel and of mine underperformance at a number of major copper operations.
zinc operations, the successful integration of the acquired Tahmoor Perhaps even more noteworthy is the likely impact on longer-term and Resource Pacic coal operations and Jubilee nickel assets, the supply growth, as announced cancellations or deferral of growth commissioning of the Perseverance zinc mine and Elandsfontein PGM projects have removed over 2.8 million tonnes of new copper supply operations led to record production across a number of the Groups over the next four years, introducing significant future constraints.
Copper volumes increased by 16% in the second half compared to the first half, when lower grades and a number While near-term market conditions remain very challenging, the swift of one-off operational difficulties reduced volumes.
reduction of existing production and the suspension of loss-making operations will limit oversupply and ultimately result in a more balanced The successful commissioning and ramp up of new, lower cost market as demand starts to increase from current depressed levels.
production and a number of productivity improvements, in particular at Xstratas zinc and coal operations, mitigated ongoing inationary In the medium term, the current shortage of capital and poor shortcost pressures and achieved real cost savings of $184 million.
term visibility are leading to substantial capital expenditure reductions At Xstrata Alloys, the Lion ferrochrome smelting complex by major and junior miners to defer or forgo growth projects.
and Bokamoso pelletising plant contributed greater than expected Further delays to new production capacity to replace ageing mines improvements in energy efficiency and ore consumption.
These with declining grades and increasingly difficult mining conditions are proprietary, industry-leading technologies continue to show their sowing the seeds of future undersupply and significant price increases worth, as further efficiency savings are set to mitigate the adverse across a number of commodities, once global industrial production impact of standing charges in 2009 in respect of idled capacity, and demand for commodities resume their longer-term growth trend.
which currently represents some 80% of annual capacity.
Substantial global scal stimulus packages Cost deation in respect of major input items has lagged the severe The mining industrys response to the sudden downturn in global decline in commodity prices but is beginning to accelerate, in particular economic conditions has been matched by government-led actions for fuel, raw materials and contract labour, and will contribute to to attempt to restart growth, improve liquidity and secure the global greater operating cost savings in 2009.
The impact of a stronger US banking system.
In total, over $1.7 trillion of scal stimulus packages dollar against the major commodity-producing currencies is also have been announced to date in major commodity-consuming expected to provide a significant offsetting benefit to lower prices regions including China, Japan, Europe and the US.
A very significant in 2009. proportion of this total for example, more than 70%, or $400 billion, of Chinas total investment has been earmarked for metals-intensive Rapid supply-side response to infrastructure investment and is consequently expected to bolster market conditions demand for commodities.
Economic growth projections in the main OECD countries were Together with looser monetary policy to encourage industrial already being reduced during the first half of 2008, but dramatically production and economic growth, these measures are expected declined in the wake of the financial crisis in September.
Failing banks to begin to ease economic conditions in due course.
resulted in a severe tightening in money supply and liquidity continues to be very constrained.
The consequence has been rapid fide-leveraging Xstratas response to the sudden downturn and destocking across the world economic system, with the US, UK, Our businesses have acted promptly and decisively in response Japan and Euro-zone economies falling into recession and growth to sudden lower demand for key commodities and conserved rates in the developing economies moderating signicantly.
cash during a period of heightened uncertainty by: Since the financial crisis in September 2008, the majority of LME suspending or closing higher cost or unprofitable production: commodities have traded at ultimately unsustainable levels at or below their marginal cost of production.
aligning production with reduced demand: It is striking and important to note that the mining industry has redoubling efforts to drive down operating costs and tightly responded to this sudden reversal in fortunes with far greater control working capital: and speed and to a greater extent than in previous economic downturns.
substantially reducing discretionary sustaining and expansionary Restricted access to capital, in particular for junior mining companies capital expenditure.
or marginal producers, has further contributed to the prompt closure of unprofitable operations and the curtailment of exploration and Suspension of marginal production development of new growth projects.
Consolidation of the sector Xstrata Zinc and Teck Cominco closed the joint venture Lennard has undoubtedly also played its part, with a smaller number of major Shelf zinc-lead operation in Western Australia in early August in producers acting responsibly and rationally in the face of extraordinary response to ongoing lower zinc prices in what now appears to have financial market conditions and weak demand for commodities.
been a prescient decision, given the financial meltdown in September.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 13 Strategy: Business Review Chief Executives Report continued Faced with the conuence of depressed nickel prices and record in 2002.
Our approach to costs has always been to progressively oil prices during 2008, Xstrata Nickel acted swiftly to suspend its optimise productivity and efficiency without sacrificing the longer-term Falcondo ferronickel operation in the Dominican Republic in August growth potential of our operations and this remains a key objective.
before placing the operation under care and maintenance in early I rmly believe that Xstratas devolved management structure provides December.
Falcondo has traditionally been a swing producer and, a critical competitive advantage in this area.
Operational management while the decision to suspend an operation is never taken lightly, teams are incentivised and have the authority to implement innovative, ceasing production in a timely manner avoided over $85 million of localised initiatives to enhance efficiency that together amount to operating cash losses at this operation in the second half.
At Sudbury, significant, cumulative savings, without the burden of centralised decrees Xstrata Nickel accelerated the closure of the Thayer-Lindsley and and programmes that ignore the realities of individual operations.
Craig mines, which were approaching the end of their useful lives.
Xstrata Zincs recently announced series of measures to optimise its A number of other operations remain under review and I am confident Mount Isa operations offers one example of the initiatives currently that our management teams will continue to take prompt action to under way throughout the Group.
Xstrata Zinc aims to achieve improve the operating cost prole of our operations and ensure that our substantial reductions in operating and cash costs while increasing businesses remain nancially robust throughout the economic cycle.
metal production at Mount Isa.
Handlebar Hill open pit mine will be placed into care and maintenance, while production from the largeAligning production with demand scale Black Star open pit operation and higher grade George Fisher The sudden deterioration in economic conditions had a particularly operation at Mount Isa will increase by 35% and 13% respectively.
strong impact on the steel sector, affecting demand for all commodities Together, with stockpiled ore from Handlebar Hill, this will enable used in stainless and carbon steel production.
In response to weaker an optimised throughput at the expanded zinc-lead concentrator demand for ferrochrome, the Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture of 7.3 million tonnes, 20% higher than in 2008, with improved progressively suspended 17 ferrochrome furnaces in South Africa, recoveries and increased operational efficiencies.
This strategic representing approximately 80% of annual production capacity, operational change will result in a 23% increase in zinc metal prioritising lower cost, energy efficient production from the Lion output and a 17% increase in lead metal output over 2008 levels.
Planned capital expenditure at Mount Isa will also be reduced by Coking coal demand has similarly declined in line with lower steel 83% without impacting the integrity of our operations and further production.
Xstrata Coals Oaky No 1 mine in Queensland, Australia, cost savings will be achieved through reducing and deferring the suspended longwall operations as it came to the end of a section.
movement of waste material at Black Star by 40%.
A development unit has been installed to ensure the mine is able In total, operating costs at the Mount Isa zinc-lead operations will to respond quickly when market conditions improve.
be reduced by $135 million or 32% in 2009.
Taking into account Production at McArthur River Mine was reduced to an annual rate the increase in metal output and reductions to capital spending, cash of 2 million tonnes of ore per annum, from 2.5 million tonnes per savings are expected to represent over half a billion dollars in 2009, annum, in line with deteriorating market demand for McArthur excluding any beneficial impact from the stronger US dollar against Rivers bulk zinc-lead concentrate from ISF smelters.
This exceptional result is to the credit of Xstrata Zincs operational management and demonstrates the entrepreneurial Operational changes of this nature, especially the closure of approach being taken across Xstratas businesses to reduce costs and operations, unfortunately but inevitably result in impacts on Xstratas improve productivity.
employees and contractors, as operations seek to ensure they have the appropriate workforce structure for prevailing market conditions.
Similarly, at Xstrata Nickel, the accelerated closure of higher cost We have sought to minimise the impact of operational restructuring operations at Sudbury, together with energy efficiency improvements or closures on our workforce and avoid compulsory redundancies and low-capital capacity increases at Nikkelverk is targeted to reduce to the extent possible, including through offering early retirement C1 cash costs at the combined Sudbury and Nikkelverk operations schemes or alternative positions within the Group, or by not lling by over 30% in 2009 compared to 2008, excluding foreign vacant positions.
Overall headcount, including contractors, has been exchange impacts.
This substantial cost improvement includes the reduced by 5,500 positions to date.
transformational impact on the cost prole of the Sudbury complex expected from the commissioning of the Nickel Rim South operation Despite the current period of uncertainty and significant change later this year.
When fully commissioned, Nickel Rim South will more at our operations, I am very pleased that Xstratas businesses have than replace the lost metal volume from the closed mines, contribute continued to achieve significant improvements in safety performance.
The frequency of total recordable injuries recorded across the Group signicantly higher by-product credits and offers substantially lower improved by 18% in 2008 compared to the previous year, with cash costs through the application of bulk mining methods.
particularly strong reductions in injuries at Xstrata Alloys, Xstrata Substantial reductions in planned capital expenditure Copper and Xstrata Zinc.
Xstratas businesses have developed a significant pipeline of greeneld Operating cost reductions and browneld organic growth options that can be progressed as The current economic climate has provided additional impetus and market conditions allow and provide a significant source of future urgency to our management teams ongoing efforts to pursue every production growth and value creation.
Total capital expenditure rose opportunity to reduce costs.
We have long recognised that year-onto $5 billion in 2008, including $3.4 billion of expansionary capital year cost efficiencies are an important measure of our operational expenditure to progress key growth projects and commission new, lower excellence and this is borne out by Xstratas track record of sustainable cost production including the Perseverance zinc-lead mine in Canada cost reductions on a real basis every year since the initial public offering and the Elandsfontein PGM mine and concentrator in South Africa.
14 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 However, total expenditure fell below previous guidance for the full year, Xstratas absolute level of debt is now perceived as a potential constraint as Xstratas businesses acted quickly in the final months of the year to on the Group, given the uncertainty that exists over the near-term reduce and defer discretionary capital expenditure in the light of the outlook for commodities.
financial crisis and lack of visibility into near-term economic conditions.
Our announcement of a 2 for 1 rights issue to raise 4.1 billion During the current period of depressed commodity prices and low approximately $5.9 billion excluding costs, will provide a significant visibility into near-term economic conditions, Xstratas focus is to injection of capital, mitigate the risks presented by the current optimise cash by reducing capital spending, while preserving the uncertainty and remove this potential constraint.
The proceeds of the value of its significant suite of growth options.
An ongoing review rights issue will be used to repay bank debt.
Specically, we will pay of all capital expenditure projects has resulted in almost $3 billion back in full the drawn amount under the Groups recently increased of capital expenditure deferrals or reductions for 2009, reducing $5.46 billion revolving facility, with the balance used to repay in part anticipated capital expenditure for 2009 by approximately 45% the drawn balance under a $4.68 billion revolving facility.
relative to previous guidance to $3.4 billion.
Forecast expenditure Following the rights issue, Xstratas net debt will reduce to comprises $1.2 billion of essential sustaining capital expenditure and approximately $12.7 billion and gearing will reduce to just under 30%, $2.2 billion of expansionary capital expenditure, of which some $500 at the lowest end of our long-term target range.
Including the net million relates to projects due to commission in 2009, including the proceeds from the rights issue, the combined impact of the actions Goedgevonden thermal coal mine in South Africa and the Nickel Rim taken by the Group to conserve cash and reduce operating and capital South project in Canada.
Those elements of Xstratas extensive growth costs will add over $7 billion, providing Xstrata with a substantially pipeline which have been deferred remain available to be accelerated strengthened balance sheet at a time of heightened uncertainty.
at the appropriate time and when market conditions allow.
Glencore, Xstratas major shareholder with an interest of 34.5%, has Acquisitions provided irrevocable undertakings to take up its rights in full, and the Through our acquisition of Jubilee Mines nickel operations in January, remainder of the rights issue will be fully underwritten.
The issue of Xstrata Nickel has gained access to dwindling nickel sulphide growth new shares will be subject to shareholder approval at an extraordinary opportunities.
Our coal team was also able to further its strategy general meeting to be convened by early March.
to consolidate major coal complexes through the acquisition of the Resource Pacic coal assets in February 2008.
Acquisition of Prodeco The planned rights issue, together with Glencores ongoing support for On 1 October 2008, Xstrata announced that it would not proceed Xstrata has provided Xstrata with an opportunity to acquire Glencores with the proposed acquisition of Lonmin announced in August, world-class, cash-generative Prodeco coal operations in Colombia for due to the risk posed by the requirement to renance a significant portion of the necessary acquisition facilities within one year.
The addition of these premier operations we increased our stake in Lonmin to 24.9%, providing a significant into the Group will consolidate Xstrata Coals global leadership in interest in one of the worlds leading platinum producers.
thermal coal and strengthen its strategic position in Colombia, from which it supplies both the European and US markets.
We are confident that the long-term fundamentals on which our investment cases in respect of these acquisitions were based remain The Prodeco operations comprise the La Jagua and Calenturitas mines, sound and that these acquisitions represent value-accretive transactions which benefit from the potential to almost double production from of long-life operations that will deliver substantial returns to shareholders current production of 9 million tonnes per annum of premium quality, over many years.
However, with the benefit of hindsight, we may have export thermal coal.
Prodeco also controls its own infrastructure, in been able to secure these assets at a lower cost and at a time of less the form of export port facilities, a 40% share in a railroad rail facilities financial stress.
Xstrata Coal management has detailed operational experience at these assets, with one of Xstrata Coals Securing an appropriate capital structure senior operational managers having recently held the position of Chief The early actions taken by our commodity businesses to mitigate Operating officer of Prodeco and the acquisition represents a highly the impact of prevailing economic conditions are being matched by attractive addition to our industry-leading thermal coal portfolio.
a number of proactive initiatives undertaken to secure Xstratas capital As a related party transaction, the acquisition will also be subject structure.
While the Group did not take up the acquisition facility to shareholder approval.
associated with the Lonmin transaction, we did proceed with a new However, Xstrata and Glencore failed to reach full agreement on $5 billion club facility with a broad group of relationship banks to an appropriate valuation of the Prodeco assets and, as a result, the renance and extend signicantly the tenure of the Groups existing transaction agreement includes a call option, under which Glencore debt and provide further headroom.
In January 2009, the facility was may buy back the Prodeco assets from Xstrata at any point up to the increased by an additional $459 million to approximately $5.46 billion.
first anniversary of the closing date, for a total cash consideration As a result of these actions, Xstrata benets from substantial headroom of $2.25 billion, plus the net balance of any cash invested by Xstrata and no significant debt renancing requirements until 2011.
Net debt and any profits accrued but not distributed to Xstrata.
The call option of $16.3 billion at the year-end represented gearing on a net debt to agreement ensures that, should the option be exercised, Glencore net debt plus equity basis of 40%.
will pay a repurchase price that adequately compensates Xstratas Nonetheless, it is clear that, while appropriate for market conditions shareholders for the option granted.
In my view, these arrangements experienced in the first three quarters of the year and indeed in the are fair to both parties and at the same time facilitate an orderly rights past few years, in the aftermath of an unprecedented financial crisis, issue process, which is to the benefit of all of Xstratas shareholders.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 15 Strategy: Business Review Chief Executives Report continued In light of the proposed capital raising, the Board has decided not Previous downturns have shown that companies that act quickly to declare a final dividend for 2008.
The total dividend for the year and decisively to secure their future emerge strongly from difficult is therefore 18 US cents per share, paid as the interim dividend on economic conditions, with an improved competitive position.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments to rights issue, together with the proactive initiatives being undertaken shareholders at the earliest opportunity, while seeking to maintain a by management and the addition of the cash-generative Prodeco prudent capital structure against the backdrop of the macroeconomic assets, will ensure that Xstrata maintains a robust financial position climate and the Groups cash flow, capital requirements and throughout even an extended period of uncertainty, providing dividend cover.
a strengthened position from which to pursue growth and value creation upon the inevitable return to growth of global economies.
The primary objective of our announcements today is to ensure that Xstrata remains nancially robust during current challenging market Xstrata continues to operate a suite of cash-generative operations conditions and going forward, given the lack of visibility into nearacross a broad range of geographies, with excellent growth potential term economic conditions.
However, looking through the prevailing and a strong competitive position in each of its key commodity period of uncertainty to the return of a more benign environment, markets.
Against a background of strong mediumto longer-term the proposed capital raising also provides the Group with an enhanced fundamentals for the Groups products and near-term actions to platform from which, at the appropriate time, to initiate the next secure Xstratas financial position, I am confident that the prospects stage of Xstratas growth.
for Xstrata remain very encouraging.
A number of opportunities are beginning to emerge as a result of the dislocation of market values from underlying company valuations and the distressed or forced sale of attractive, cash-generative assets or projects.
Once visibility into the outlook for commodity prices and cash ows improves, Xstrata will continue to use its proven ability to identify and execute acquisition opportunities, seeking to improve the Mick Davis strategic positioning of its business units and the Group as a whole.
Chief Executive We will continue to take a highly disciplined approach to growth.
Shareholder value and a prudent approach to funding and capital structure will remain our primary considerations.
Xstrata remains fully committed to maintaining an investment grade balance sheet throughout the economic cycle.
Outlook The financial crisis has produced a marked lack of visibility into shortterm economic activity, and as such, the outlook for 2009 is uncertain.
Investment in infrastructure is set to increase during 2009 and 2010, reecting the significant stimulus packages announced by many major governments which prioritise commodity-intensive investment in many cases.
Notwithstanding prevailing near-term market conditions brought about by the financial crisis, the long-term positive trend for increased demand for metals and energy remains intact, driven by the ongoing industrialisation of developing economies and the urbanisation of over 20 million people per annum in China and India and over 65 to 70 million people globally at current rates.
Long-term positive demand trends of this nature result in higher average commodity prices than historical averages in real terms, as new supply struggles to keep pace with increasing demand from emerging economies.
At the same time, current market conditions will exacerbate future supply constraints, as inventories are depleted by curtailments to existing supply and exploration investment and growth projects are deferred or cancelled.
When OECD economies return to a growth phase, the impact of synchronised demand growth from developed and emerging economies, coupled with greater commodity supply constraints, has the potential to lead to a rapid increase in commodity prices and demand, resulting in substantial cash ows and margin expansion for those metals and mining companies which have weathered the current challenging conditions.
