DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Chief Executives review The Group performed well with organic growth from well-positioned businesses Ian King Chief Executive BAE Systems continued to make good progress during 2008 in addressing its strategy to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company.
The Group performed well with organic growth in our US businesses benefiting from strong demand in their respective market sectors.
The Group has also delivered growth from recent acquisitions.
Increased profitability is being achieved across this higher volume of business from good programme execution.
The Group continues to benefit from delivery against its strategic framework.
The Groups progression has been achieved through the focus on existing defence capabilities, the broadening to other domains such as the land systems sector, and the substantial expansion of the business footprint across its markets.
Activity is starting to increase in India as resources are committed to developing that market.
In 2008, the Group has further developed the business with targeted value-adding acquisitions.
In June, the acquisition of US-based MTC Technologies was completed.
The acquisition focuses on the substantial readiness and sustainment opportunities seen in the US defence market and builds on the Groups established through-life support capabilities.
Also in June, the acquisition of the Australia-based defence business Tenix Defence was completed, positioning the Group as the industry leader in the Australian defence market with air, land and naval capabilities.
The acquisition is another step in progressing the Groups strategy to grow through the provision of through-life capability in partnership with the armed forces in its home markets.
The acquisition of Detica in September addressed the Groups strategy of targeting national security markets.
Opportunities are being identified to leverage the Groups system integration capabilities to meet adjacent, non-military, security requirements for government customers.
com Performance against 2008 Executive Committee top ten objectives The Board reviews and updates the Groups strategy annually see page 10.
The Chief Executive and Executive Committee agree the Groups strategic objectives, business portfolio actions and integrated business plans.
The strategy is also supported by ten short-term objectives agreed annually by the Chief Executive and Executive Committee which address the key challenges in delivering the strategy in the year ahead.
Performance against these objectives is measured using a number of key performance indicators which are regularly reported to the Board see pages 24 to 27.
Achievements against the 2008 objectives are summarised below.
Meet 2008 financial targets Another year of strong performance, with 2008 financial targets for earnings per share and net cash debt exceeded.
Develop our partnering approach Further good progress in partnering with customers in the Groups home markets.
The acquisition of Tenix Defence in June addresses opportunities to develop through-life business in partnership with the Australian armed forces.
Ensure continued application of Key business policies and processes are mandated across the Group, and are an business policies and processes important part of the integration of newly acquired businesses.
These policies and processes continued to be refined and enhanced with a focus on achieving good, consistent application across all businesses.
Further enhance programme Good programme execution has again been reflected in the performance of the execution through schedule Group.
The Group exceeded its 2008 targets for programme margin improvement and cost performance and schedule adherence.
Progress development of The acquisition of Detica in September built on the Groups established position security business addressing Homeland Security markets in the US and accelerated the implementation of the Groups strategy to address growth opportunities in national security business across its home markets.
Grow our US business, including The Group continued to grow its US businesses, with the prior year acquisition of Armor through investments Holdings and strong organic growth from its US land systems business.
The acquisition of MTC Technologies in June addresses further growth opportunities in readiness and sustainment activity in the US.
Progress the business in the The Group continued to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains committed to Kingdom of Saudi Arabia its strategy of developing a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom.
Good progress was made in establishing industrial capabilities to support the modernisation of the Saudi armed forces as part of the Saudi-British Defence Co-operation Agreement.
Continue to implement the UK BAE Systems continued to make progress in supporting the UK armed forces through Defence Industrial Strategy DIS long-term partnering agreements.
The formation of the BVT joint venture in July was a key step in the consolidation of the UK naval sector consistent with the objectives of the DIS.
Progress export opportunities Export opportunities continued to be addressed.
The Groups increasing emphasis is on deriving growth in its business by the establishment of industrial capability in defined markets.
Continue to drive performance Good progress was made in embedding the Groups commitment to safety, ethics in safety, ethics and diversity and diversity.
The publication of the Woolf Committee report in May was followed by the establishment of a programme of actions to implement its recommendations.
A Group-wide Code of Conduct was developed for roll-out at the start of 2009.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p24 KPIs SEE PAGES 24 TO 27 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 7 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Chief Executives review continued The Group will continue to increase emphasis on maximising was launched in January 2009 to codify the required standards defence and security capabilities across the home markets in of personal and business conduct.
the US, UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia, Sweden and South Africa.
In The Group has been reorganised and the Executive Committee addition, the Group will look to expand where it sees opportunities 1 restructured.
The operating group heads and functional leaders to establish an industrial presence in new markets, such as India.
are all now represented on the Executive Committee.
Export performance has remained solid with awards including The Executive Committees top ten objectives for 2009 are RG-series vehicles to a number of countries, including Spain and summarised opposite.
Many of these objectives are consistent with Sweden, M777 guns to Canada, CV90 infantry fighting vehicles, those from 2008.
In particular, the team will remain focused on and a number of orders for Electronics, Intelligence & Support delivering financial performance, consistent programme execution products, including those in support of US platforms.
and developing business in its defined home markets.
In addition, In July, BAE Systems completed an agreement with VT Group plc VT further emphasis is being placed on safety performance and the to consolidate the UK naval shipbuilding industry supported by the Corporate Responsibility agenda is made a key objective for the signing of the manufacturing contract for the Future Aircraft Carrier executive team in 2009. programme and by an agreement for the future domestic warship A well implemented strategy and good programme execution workload with the UK government.
The merger of the warship build are only two of the elements of high performance.
BAE Systems and support businesses of VT and BAE Systems into the BVT joint comprises well over 100,000 talented people working in numerous venture was achieved in 2008.
The joint venture is subject to put locations around the globe.
The challenge and the opportunity is and call options and, in January 2009, VT announced that it had to further develop the Group as a cohesive, inclusive organisation.
decided to exercise its put option to sell its interest in BVT to The move to embrace a single, Group-wide, high performance culture BAE Systems and that VT expects to be in a position to exercise is creating an environment in which all employees can make a real that option by 1 July 2009. contribution and be recognised for their part in BAE Systems drive Even after the active programme of acquisitions over recent years, for continuing success.
good cash generation has enabled BAE Systems to maintain a BAE Systems has consistently delivered progressive performance strong balance sheet.
Diligent treasury management enabled the over recent years.
BAE Systems is not insulated from the difficult Group, during 2008, to avoid the effects of the extreme dislocation wider economic environment.
The Group recognises that defence in capital markets.
Bank counterparty risk has been and continues budgets are likely at some stage in the future to come under to be monitored closely on a systematic and ongoing basis, taking further pressure and it will continue to apply conservatism to account of the size of the institution, its credit rating and its credit its planning assumptions.
The Group is well positioned, having default swap price.
a large forward order book, a good balance of market positions The difficult economic environment, and in particular the falls around the globe, a well spread portfolio of programmes and in equity markets in 2008, has affected the Groups pension a strategy to address anticipated priority areas of spend for schemes.
Pension scheme funding is regularly reviewed with its customers.
the Trustees of the schemes.
The agreed funding plans have The following pages describe the Groups strategy, its markets been considered over the longer term and are deemed to continue and the way the business is managed.
An agreement with the Trustees of the Main UK Pension Scheme has recently been concluded following the actuarial valuation carried out as at April 2008.
The recovery plan to clear the deficit has been accepted by the Pensions Regulator.
In May 2008, the Woolf Committee, an independent body appointed by the Board under the chairmanship of Lord Woolf to review the Groups ethical standards, published its report.
A steering group and associated working groups have been established to address all 23 recommendations and a plan has been developed for implementation of recommendations within three years.
The aim is to establish the Group as a leader in business conduct, not just within our sector but within the global business community.
Consistent with the importance attached to Corporate Responsibility and the drive towards leadership in business ethics, the Group has taken steps to embed such issues more directly in its day-to-day operations.
An important part of this drive is the establishment of a Global Code of Conduct in which all employees have a clear Ian King Chief Executive understanding of what is expected of them.
The Code of Conduct 1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THE p19 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SEE PAGE 19 8 www.
com Global Code of Conduct We have already made good progress implementing We have appointed Deloitte to provide external the recommendations of the Woolf Committee.
assurance on an annual basis as to the progress of the Woolf implementation programme and this At the beginning of 2009, we introduced a Global will be reported through our Corporate Responsibility Code of Conduct which provides guidance on the Report which is due to be published in April 2009. principles, standards and personal behaviour that Our global strategy sets out our aspiration to be our people should bring to their business conduct.
BAESystems has These build on our existing policies which have been many business imperatives, but to succeed with collated into a single document with guidance to them we must develop our business conduct with explain what they mean to us.
the same rigour that we apply to our financial and We have appointed a senior Corporate Responsibility programme execution skills.
This includes creating executive, reporting directly to the Chief Executive, to an inclusive culture where the great diversity of ensure that the Groups policies and processes meet talent and capability of our 106,400 employees with high standards of ethical business conduct.
2009 Executive Committee top ten objectives The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2009.
A review of performance against these objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2009.
The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the leadership and engagement of people at all levels in the Group.
Financial targets Meet 2009 financial targets and set challenging and realistic longer-term plans.
Programme execution Further enhance programme execution through schedule and cost performance.
3. Business conduct Progress towards a recognised leadership position on the Corporate Responsibility agenda.
Safety Drive safety performance to a level comparable with leading performers over a three-year period.
Global initiatives Make progress on the four global initiatives Land, Security, Readiness & Sustainment, and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
US business Grow our US business including execution of planned investments.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Progress delivery of the Saudi Industrialisation Plan and further develop business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
UK businesses Continue to implement the UK Defence Industrial Strategy including execution of our transformation and investment plans.
9. Business development Progress export opportunities from each of our home markets.
10. Business policies and processes Ensure continued quality application of our mandated business policies and processes.
