Group overview At the same time as focussing on current market conditions, as far as possible we will seek to protect the longer-term value creating qualities of the organisation.
Group Chief Executives statement However, we saw an underlying reduction of around 5%, mainly in the last quarter of the year, as a result of pressure on prices We have achieved satisfactory results for the year and increased sales incentives.
against the backdrop of a rapidly deteriorating UK Declining volumes and prices were partially housing market.
With the successful renegotiation of offset by underlying improvements in the efficiency of the Group.
Wilson Bowden our debt covenants, we have now strengthened our synergies of 33m were delivered against financial structure and have refocussed the business the target of 30m set for 2007 8 with a series of additional cost reduction on clear priorities: sales delivery, cost efficiency and programmes, put in place 18 months ago, cash management to reduce debt.
delivering an additional 20m of cost savings.
Whilst these improvements have reduced the impact of lower volume and selling prices, overall Group profit from 1 Our operational performance Total completions for the year, whilst up on operations before exceptional costs, 2 2 After a relatively stable start to the financial a statutory basis, decreased on a like-for-like on a like-for-like basis, fell by 21.5% with year, we saw a sharp decline in the UK housing basis by 13.8% to 18,588.
However, the difficult an operating margin before exceptional 1 market following the well-publicised financial trading conditions, particularly in the fourth costs of 15.5%.
Whilst there quarter, have led to a more significant reduction was some recovery in our sales following in forward sales and we consequently expect Tight control of land spend helped to reduce Christmas, the fourth quarter was particularly lower completion volumes in 2008 9.
At the our net debt to 1.65bn at the end of the challenging for the Group.
Sales became year-end forward sales totalled 697.6m of second half.
However, as a prudent response extremely difficult in the traditionally strong which 538.7m was contracted.
to future market conditions, we have agreed spring selling season, with cancellation with our banks and private placement note rates rising to 37.4% during the second The overall average selling prices of the holders to amend our covenant package.
half as a result of the severe rationing of properties sold increased by 6.0% as a result In addition, we have recently signed a new mortgage finance.
of continued changes in our product mix.
three-year 400m facility and have reached 1 Exceptional costs comprise 208.4m of inventory write-downs, 24.5m goodwill impairment, intangible assets impairment of 6.2m and restructuring costs of 15.9m.
Barratt Developments 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Main image: The Beaudesert at Henley Point, Henley-in-Arden.
Top right: Street scene at Eden Village, Sittingbourne.
Bottom right: Fantastic natural stone elevations of the Dumont at Fieldways, Paulton.
New products aimed at helping our customers in other divisions this has resulted in the loss agreement to extend 350m of our existing overcome the current barriers in the housing of approximately 1,200 jobs.
The vast majority 400m revolving credit facility.
These debt market have also been introduced.
Sharedof these people have now left the organisation.
facilities do not mature until 2011. equity products such as Dream Start and This rationalisation will bring the total number of Head Start have proved particularly successful divisions down from 44, at the time of the Wilson Competing in todays market and we will continue to innovate in these areas.
These initiatives are With the successful refinancing of the business, likely to result in further savings of around 40m a good deal of the uncertainty about our future Part-exchange is an important sales channel per annum, the majority of which will be delivered has been removed.
However, there is little in the current market.
Our ability to sell in 2008 9 at a cost of 15m.
The structure, whilst prospect of an immediate housing market second-hand products is a key determinant much leaner, still provides us with nationwide recovery as mortgage finance remains highly of the extent to which we can use this offering coverage and the sound foundations for growth constrained.
We have therefore put in place and last year we sold over 1,900 second-hand when the market picks up.
detailed plans to drive improved operational properties through our Oakleaf network.
performance in the key areas of sales, costs We also remain on track to deliver approximately and cash.
Reducing costs 60m of annualised savings arising from the Although we have made good progress on integration of Wilson Bowden during 2008 9.
Improved sales delivery cost reduction, there is still considerable scope In current market conditions the effectiveness to improve the efficiency of the Group.
Cost Managing cash of the Groups marketing and sales capability reduction programmes across the business Cash control will continue to be central to will have a significant impact on our business are well established and are continuing our objectives.
Land spend in 2008 9 is likely performance in terms of maximising revenue.
to reduce construction and supply costs.
to reduce to around 568m, almost all of We have put additional investment into sales We expect these programmes to deliver which relates to contractual commitments training and site marketing.
Both our major 40m of savings in 2008 9. a reduction of 400m on 2007 8.
Work in brands, David Wilson Homes and Barratt progress is being tightly controlled and we Homes, have been refreshed and there has We have introduced additional cost saving will continue to carefully match construction been significant investment in our online measures to take account of the further rates to projected sales rates.
We will only start media activity.
New media marketing deterioration in the market.
During July we on new sites or new phases where we are campaigns are currently driving circa 70% announced that we would further rationalise our confident of sales rates: so the number of sites of sales leads and we expect this low-cost divisional structure, and together with savings will fall to an average of around 500 for 2008 9. channel to continue to grow.
2 Like-for-like basis assumes that the acquisition of Wilson Bowden was completed on the first day of the comparative period.
Wilson Bowden achieved 6,052 completions, revenue of 1,422.1m, operating profit of 219.2m, and a profit before tax of 191.7m in the twelve months ended 30 June 2007.
Prior to acquisition, Wilson Bowden achieved 4,401 completions, revenue of 1,042.5m, Barratt Developments operating profit of 165.3m including 22.7m of exceptional costs and profit before tax of 141.2m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement Whilst we have a minimal exposure to large, expertise has once again been demonstrated seek to protect the longer-term value creating owned tranches of strategic land and high by winning 73 National House-Building qualities of the organisation.
This means rise flatted developments, we have incurred Council NHBC Pride in the Job quality continuing to invest in our people, improving pre-tax write-downs to the value of land awards for the quality of our construction the quality of construction, safety standards, and work in progress of 208.4m of which teams.
This is the highest number of awards customer service and ensuring that we develop 51.2m related to commercial developments.
ever made to a single business in the our products to meet customers preferences It is anticipated that a portion of these 26 year history of the scheme.
It follows and changing regulatory requirements.
write-downs will enable the Group to release the unprecedented achievement of winning cash from work in progress more quickly.
both of the NHBC Supreme Awards The importance of our continued emphasis on the very highest construction awards for safety and quality was underlined by the tragic We are progressing with the process to major housebuilders.
death of a resident at the Azure development, divest the assets from the Wilson Bowden Bedfont, caused, it appears, by carbon Developments portfolio which have a potential Driving up quality monoxide poisoning.
Our sympathies lie very cash value of around 200m.
We hope to be We have continued to focus on driving up much with the families of those involved at this able to move the majority of these through to the quality of everything we do and improving time.
We are working with the relevant authorities completion over the next six to twelve months.
Customer service to understand the full cause of the incident.
must remain a high priority for the Group Long-term value and against a background of considerable Investing in people At the same time as focussing on current organisational change.
The number of our At the heart of our capability is a high quality market conditions, as far as possible we will customers that would recommend us to and dedicated work force.
Their skill and Reducing costs Managing cash Group-wide programmes continue to reduce We are tightly controlling land and work construction and supply costs and are expected in progress spend and will only start on new to deliver 40m of savings in 2008 9. sites where we are confident of sales rates.
Barratt Developments 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group overview | Group Chief Executives statement a friend has remained at 88% 2007: 88% Part of our success in this area is due to the have been down around 30% on prior year.
increasingly strong social and environmental Pricing continues to be under pressure with credentials of the Group.
These were further higher incentive levels being required.
Whilst We have seen significant improvement in reinforced by the construction of the countrys we will deliver further cost savings during the the health and safety performance of the first zero carbon code level six house by a major year, we expect to see downward pressure Group.
The reportable injury incidence rate housebuilder and by winning the first English on margins.
was 656 per 100,000 people employed Partnerships Carbon Challenge.
This will lead to a reduction of 23.5% on the previous year.
the construction of the nations first zero carbon We will continue to focus on sales effectiveness, community at Hanham Hall, near Bristol.
cost reduction and cash generation.
When Product innovation confidence returns, the enhanced capability We continually review our product range to Current trading and outlook and lower cost structure of our organisation ensure that it meets customer and regulatory There remains considerable uncertainty will ensure that we are in a strong position requirements.
For example, our specialist about the near-term prospects for the sector to compete in the market and capitalise on regeneration skills have enabled us to continue to with market recovery dependent on an available opportunities.
win large, high value development opportunities improvement in the availability of mortgage with limited cash outlay.
Whilst it is inevitable finance and customer confidence.
Whilst Mark Clare that much needed regeneration of many areas market conditions during the first two months Group Chief Executive will now be significantly slower as a result of of the new financial year have been broadly 9 September 2008 market conditions, we continue to be well stable, they remain extremely challenging.
placed to compete when opportunities arise.
In the last four weeks net private sales rates Improved sales delivery Driving up quality Sales effectiveness using both our internet sites Customer satisfaction is a high priority.
The Healey and traditional methods, such as the sales launch family were so impressed by Lavender Grove that at Great West Quarter above, will help maximise they persuaded twelve family and friends to move our revenue.
to our homes in Oakley Vale, Corby.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
