10 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Market review This year has seen significant falls in both the value and volume of residential transactions as indicated by the fact that mortgage approvals for September 2008 were down 57% compared to September 2007.
Whilst we are seeing a correction to house prices, the market situation has been considerably worsened by the lack of appropriate funding for house buying with many of the usual sources either stopping lending altogether or offering terms which are unacceptable.
Without question, the era of high level loan to value home loans based on excessive multiples of earnings has ended.
Lenders are requiring higher deposits and better earnings coverage.
The market will inevitably take time to adjust to this new environment.
However, we believe that other factors must also be considered, in particular imbalances between supply and demand and levels of affordability.
The most stark example of imbalance currently exists in the oversupply of one or twobedroom city centre apartments primarily built for the buy to let market.
This sector, to which Grainger has virtually no exposure, has shown falls of as much as 50% in some areas.
Overriding this, however, are the broader statistics.
The Government has stated that three million new homes will be needed by 2020, two million of them by 2016.
This does not sit comfortably with estimates of the current level of supply, estimated to be well below 100,000 new units in 2009.
Inevitably at some point in the future this will once again produce upward pressure on prices.
To help alleviate this situation we have been strong advocates for policy action to promote and professionalise the private rented sector PRS.
The recent Rugg Review The Private Rented Sector: its contribution and potential showed that the Government acknowledges the importance of the PRS but the reviews focus was more on the regulation and potential licensing of landlords rather than on the need for further investment.
Without this there will be no real contribution towards increasing housing supply and improving quality for those wishing to enter this sector.
We consider that, with suitable fiscal incentives and planning policies and practices to encourage build to let schemes, the PRS would not only help alleviate the supply problem but would also present Grainger, as the UKs largest listed residential owner, with significant business opportunities.
The second factor is that of affordability.
Two recent significant cuts have put base rates down to 2.0%.
It is too early to say whether this will act as a significant stimulus to the housing market but at the very least it will encourage potential acquirers at the margin to purchase.
We have positioned the business so that we can manage through the current difficulties by maintaining our focus on our key strategic priorities: cash generation from our portfolios, reduction in property and development spend and overhead reduction.
We intend to ensure that we are in a strong position to take advantage of opportunities when the market stabilises and starts to show signs of recovery.
Rupert Dickinson Chief executive Chief executives review 11 Risk review The major risks to Graingers business are macroeconomic: Housing market A further severe and rapid downturn in UK house prices and stagnation in the market through lack of mortgage finance and or willingness to acquire properties.
Financing Significant increases in borrowing costs and or a lack of or reduction in finance available to Grainger.
Housing market Our unique residential portfolio has been assembled over a significant period of time.
Even after recent falls, its current market value is some 378m greater than cost.
Furthermore, much of the portfolio is reversionary and the value that we will obtain by selling on vacancy currently exceeds market value by 658m the reversionary surplus.
Average vacant possession value Our portfolio is inherently defensive in times of market slowdown.
It is geographically diverse and not overly exposed to cluster risk.
The majority of our properties are un-modernised and 08 190,000 of relatively low average value the average vacant possession at 30 September 2008 was 07 205,000 190,000 2007: 205,000 and 66% of our portfolios assets are valued below 250,000.
06 188,000 This level of affordability and the opportunity to maintain or increase value through 05 173,000 refurbishment are key elements of continued or sustained demand when they become available for sale.
The nature of many of our tenancies are such that we can sell them without waiting for vacancy and still realise a profit.
These investment sales are a useful way to produce additional cash flows.
As we have demonstrated through the 15% increase in sales during our last financial year, we are able to sell assets even in difficult market conditions.
Operationally we manage our exposure to house price inflation by constant reviews of the portfolio to ensure that we crystallise gains and maximise returns at the right time.
The fact that many of our properties are acquired at a significant discount to vacant possession values portfolios provides us with an inbuilt buffer against value falls and also considerable pricing flexibility.
assets We are also diversifying our income streams for example, fund management income and our geographic presence to spread risk.
Financing Our exposure to adverse interest rate movements is limited by adopting a prudent hedging policy.
At 30 September 85% of group debt was hedged through being fixed or subject to caps or swaps.
Debt subject to caps or which is floating can benefit from lower rates, provided they are reflected in LIBOR.
The hedging instruments used and the fixed rate debt have a variety of maturity dates to give protection over the medium term.
The cost of debt is also dependent upon the lending margins charged by banks.
This has increased significantly over the course of this year although this has not yet been reflected in our costs.
Our blended margin is still competitive at 77 bps at 30 September.
At 30 September, the group had headroom of 370m, 303m of which was from the UK core facility.
This headroom represents 76% of the first significant debt maturity we have a facility of 400m due in June 2010.
The average maturity of our debt is 4.5 years.
We guard against lack of liquidity by constantly recycling capital.
The business has produced 213m of cash from operating activities, including sales of investment property, the majority of which has been generated by the core and retirement solutions businesses.
This compares to a cash interest cost of 92m.
Liquidity and debt cost can also be threatened by covenant breach.
Details of our covenant structure and compliance are given in the financial review.
We constantly monitor current and prospective covenant compliance on all of our facilities and take pre-emptive action where necessary, for example asset sales, to ensure that no breaches occur.
