Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 28 The Quintain team has exercised skill and judgement Operating and over the past year, resulting once again in a top quartile performance against the Investment Property Databank financial review IPD Index.
The strength of our business model is being Chief Executives proved in the current bear market.
Our outperformance statement of 500 basis points relative to the IPD benchmark clearly demonstrates the synergistic, robust and defensive nature of our model and our ability to consistently deliver good results relative to the market.
Our primary purpose is to optimise returns for shareholders in the medium and long term, evidenced by Our outperformance of 500 basis our position in the top decile of the IPD index over three and five year periods, and in the top percentile over ten points relative to the IPD benchmark and fifteen years.
As designed, the Groups growing success clearly demonstrates the synergistic, in fund management is proving a major contributor to outperformance in difficult markets.
High barriers to robust and defensive nature of entry, strong cashflow, long leases, RPI linkage, first class partners and a deep knowledge of the operational our model.
side of our tenants business: all augur well for this divisions ongoing growth and success.
We now have almost 1bn of funds under management and in the next few years we will continue to grow this side of our business as swiftly as circumstances permit.
The concept is to balance strong and rising cashflow from fund management, which has both opportunistic and defensive qualities, with building and running towns as businesses, exemplified in Greenwich and Wembley.
Turning to these major schemes, the success of The O2, the 136,000 sq ft let to Transport for London and occupier interest from telecoms, media, internet, public sector and banking organisations underpin Greenwich Peninsulas future as a dynamic new leisure, retail and Adrian Wyatt commercial centre for London.
Chief Executive At Wembley City, the decision of the London Borough of Brent to locate their new Civic Centre in the heart of this scheme signifies that the regeneration is well underway, a fact that will be further emphasised when the first residents move in to W01 this autumn.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 29 Some three years ago we foresaw a fundamental shift The Groups portfolio includes numerous opportunities, in the commercial property sector and controlled but those which we are obliged to construct over the risk through a strategic campaign of asset disposals next two years are limited.
As a result, our development as the market reached its peak.
The proceeds were exposure to the downturn in the commercial and invested in expanding the fund management business residential markets is minimal.
We will continue to add and our major regeneration schemes, where we can value to our assets through planning, design and generate exceptional value over the long term.
While the commercial development during this period and will remaining investment properties are not prime and we direct funds towards the opportunities that offer the best anticipate further near term outward yield shift, material risk-adjusted returns.
upside potential exists from new lettings, and hence Transforming the potential within our asset base improved cashflow.
into tangible value for shareholders can only be achieved The extended level of consumer borrowing reached by an extraordinary team.
Quintain is a tightly run last year suggested prices would have to fall at some organisation populated by experts in key fields and it is point and, having exchanged contracts on 96% of the through their commitment to our entrepreneurial culture available private residential apartments at Wembley City, of challenging traditional concepts that we have once we decided not to commit to further development of other again delivered a good performance relative to the market.
residential opportunities in the short term.
High deposits My personal thanks go to them all.
were secured for every apartment sold and prices have remained buoyant, offering robust protection against non-completions.
Of the 20m sq ft of outline consent we currently hold, 92% of this is secured in London.
The Citys continued dominance as a world-class financial centre, net immigration and the 2012 Olympics combine to underpin its medium to long term future and our Adrian Wyatt confidence in the exceptional value our Greenwich and Chief Executive Wembley schemes will release remains strong.
5 June 2008 Strategic summary Goal Strategic focus Measurement KPIs Focus on the financial Total return The movement in net asset value per share 06 21% characteristics of properties adjusted for the dividends paid in the year to identify assets and as a percentage of the opening net asset 07 27.5% special situations where value per share.
we can use our skills 08 9.7% to create value Long term performance A measure of income and capital return 5 yrs 2nd percentile against the Investment as measured by the IPD, which runs the Property Databank acknowledged benchmark for the UK 10 yrs 1st percentile property industry.
The March Universe against which Quintains performance 15 yrs 1st percentile is compared comprises nearly 9,600 investment properties with a combined value of nearly 160bn.
Retain and Percentage of staff responding to the 07 81% motivate staff annual staff survey that feel very happy at work.
This year 83% of staff participated 08 81% in the survey.
This KPI was first measured in 2007.
Environmental sustainability A cumulative saving of 50,000 tonnes of 2008 baseline emissions are calculated 2 carbon over 10 years, assuming current as 0.003 tonnes of CO2 per m. build-out rate.
