Chief Executives statement Total return was underpinned by continued exceptional returns from our Buyouts business and good returns from our Growth Capital and Infrastructure businesses.
3i achieved a strong performance in the year Against this background, whilst we have Assets on the 3i Group balance sheet grew to to 31 March 2008, delivering a return on been maintaining our focus on the long-term 6,016 million from 4,362 million a year opening shareholders funds of 18.6% as well as development of 3i, the last 12 months have earlier, and third-party funds rose again, reaching a 37% growth in assets under management.
seen us being even more selective in our new 3,776 million, an increase from 2,772 million This result was achieved despite the significant investment and active in our engagement with at 31 March 2007.
These figures showed changes in financing markets which took place portfolio companies.
Our investment selection excellent progress in delivering a key element of during the year.
These very changed market process has increasingly favoured companies our strategy, which is to grow assets under conditions set the back drop for my review as with recurring income streams and more management.
Closing assets under management I recognise that no matter how good our defensive qualities.
Our relationships in the were 9,792 million 2007: 7,134 million.
performance has been, in the current more mid-market, particularly those with banks, have 37% growth in assets under uncertain environment it is the outlook and how allowed transactions to be completed, albeit on management.
3i is positioned that are likely to be of most terms closer to those of three years ago.
Total return of 18.6% 2007: 26.8% was Maintaining our focus on the long-term underpinned by continued exceptional returns My report to you coincides with a period of development of 3i.
from our Buyouts business and good returns considerable uncertainty.
The 12 months to The number of first new investments fell from from our Growth Capital and Infrastructure 31 March 2008 have seen a significant adverse 62 to 47 but, consistent with both the market businesses.
Our Venture Capital and QPE change in the outlook for the worlds economy and our own strategy, the average size of these businesses both produced negative returns and and have revealed major flaws in the soundness first investments increased significantly from our SMI run-off portfolios gross return was of the global financial system, the full 26 million to 37 million, and so total break even.
With lower realisations, and lower consequences of which have still to be investment levels increased from 1,576 million market multiples at year end, a significant understood.
It is likely to be some time before to 2,160 million, with strong figures from both element of the return came from improved the extent of the downturn in the real Buyouts and Growth Capital.
182 million of this earnings within the portfolio as well as continued economies will be seen and even longer before years figure was to seed our new QPE business strong realisation profits on those assets that it will be possible to judge the effects of the line: whereas the prior year figure included our were sold.
The favourable mark-to-market credit crunch.
91 million cash investment in the newlyof the derivative element of the Groups A significant adverse change in the outlook created 3i Infrastructure Limited.
550 million convertible bond contributed for the worlds economy.
162 million of return, reversing last years As anticipated at the start of last year, due to negative 62 million.
Provisions rose to For some time we had felt that the buoyancy the relative immaturity of the portfolio, 188 million from last years exceptionally low of the debt markets was not sustainable and realisations slowed from last years exceptional figure of 71 million.
that investments made over the recent period 2,438 million to 1,742 million.
At year end, would be unlikely to benefit from such positive our portfolio of investments numbered 487 Net asset value per share grew by 1.45 16% conditions on exit.
However, the extent of the 2007: 762.
The most significant change was to 10.77.
The increase before dilution due to fallout from the sub-prime crisis and its effect in our SMI run-off portfolio, where we ended the B share issue and dividends, was 1.94, on mergers and acquisitions markets, and the the year with just 92 positions, down from 293 representing a 21% return.
financing markets more generally, were not a year ago and some 1,079 in 2004 when we predicted by most, including us.
06 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders During the year, we undertook a regular review Strategic development continued in the year Over the last few years, we have benefited of our investment business to determine its with the launches of 3i Quoted Private Equity from the financial flexibility which our future shape in terms of geography, sector and Limited and the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, the 550 million convertible bond has provided.
The recent evolution of our Venture development of our US Growth Capital business As this bond matures during the course of Capital business towards later-stage investing and continued international expansion.
2008, our strategy is to maintain such flexibility has brought it closer to the long-standing remit We closed the year with total assets under by refinancing it through the issue of a new of our Growth Capital business and so we have management of approximately 12 billion, bond structured at an effective 60% conversion decided to combine these businesses by creating and believe that we can grow this figure to premium to 3is share price at launch.
Technology and Healthcare teams within an over 20 billion by the end of 2010, by which In these markets, liquidity is at a premium.
On a more time around half these assets could be managed We start the new year with liquid resources plus opportunistic basis, in view of the recent market or advised funds, rather than on 3is own undrawn facilities of 1,082 million.
Looking dislocations, our Buyouts business has acquired balance sheet.
forward, although we are seeing a significant selective leveraged debt assets on a prudent We believe that we can grow assets under level of new investment opportunities, basis.
This is not only to produce private equity management to over 20 billion by the end nevertheless we are targeting maintaining a like returns but also to give us the opportunity to of 2010. broadly similar level of debt by the end of the consider extending this business should market current financial year, with a potentially modest conditions allow.
Our people are critical to our continued success, increase in gearing during the intervening period and how we encourage their engagement with The recent evolution of our Venture as investments and divestments take place.
the firms agenda and reward their contribution Capital business towards later-stage to our success, both financial and otherwise, are Our strategy is as relevant today has brought it closer to Growth Capital.
key responsibilities of our senior team.
The relatively benign environment of the interest schemes have attracted considerable There is, of course, continuing uncertainty in last few years has allowed 3i to reshape itself comment over the last 12 months, much of it many of our markets.
History shows that by expanding geographically, broadening its mis-informed and mostly unfavourable.
Given whenever the mergers and acquisitions markets asset classes, and increasing third-party funds the recent excesses of the banking system, it is go through a period of adjustment such as this, under management, and to make major timely for those of us in the private equity there is a time lag during which price investments in people and process without industry to emphasise that carried interest expectations are not fully matched, and so compromising shareholder expectations.
schemes only pay out on the realisation of activity is less predictable.
However, compared investments, and are aligned with the interests The results of this reshaping will be seen over to previous periods of economic adjustment, of the capital provider, whether 3i itself or our the next few years as the capabilities that we the positive influence of the fast-growing third-party investors.
have recently built deliver further profitable economies of Asia during this period brings very assets for the Group and additional income As an investment company, 3i will routinely face different dynamics to the outlook for the world streams from third-party funds.
mis-matches in timing between making new economy.
Our portfolio is generally performing investments and achieving disposals.
This was very well but is not immune to general economic This also means that in the coming year our key the case last year when, as anticipated, new conditions.
Our strategy is as relevant today as a performance indicator of net costs as a investment exceeded disposals by 418 million.
percentage of opening portfolio value will Having also returned 808 million to continue its progress towards our long-term As a consequence, we enter the new year shareholders last year through an issue objective of 3.0%.
confident in our strategy and realistic in outlook, of B shares, and made further on-market intending to make further progress and to build on repurchases of 120 million, 3i ended the year the significant investment of the last few years.
Philip Yea Chief Executive 14 May 2008 Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 07
