1 0 c h I E f E X E c U t I V E s s tAt E M E n t Chief Executives statement At the end of 2008 the Our strategy is rather market capitalisation of Admiral Group was almost simple: continue our twice that of General Motors.
in the UK and take Normally at this point in my commentary I like to get right to the highlights so that shareholders can see what we know and straight away what we accomplished in the year.
This year, however, I think do well and do it there are few key messages that I need to get across and, for those of you who never read beyond the third paragraph elsewhere.
of these reports, Id better put them next to make sure you get them.
The Henry Engelhardt, CBE highlights, and there were plenty of them, will follow, further down the page.
Key messages: 1 Resistant, not proof 2 Freight train gaining speed 3 Headlines dont mirror reality 4 Fierce competition 5 Its not just add water and stir 6 Stick to the strategy So, for those of you who only do three paras, thanks for your time.
For those who want to know more, please read on.
Resistant, not proof Car insurance is probably as good an industry as there is in a recession.
The very simple fact that its compulsory purchase means consumers arent deciding whether or not to buy it this year, theyre just asking who from?
I dont think any industry is airtight, recession-proof, but this one is recession-resistant its a compulsory purchase product!
I dont see people giving up their cars en masse and so theyll have to buy the insurance.
I do see consumers shopping around even more to ensure they get the best deal.
In the UK, I think this additional shopping, especially when its done Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 1 1 on price comparison sites, plays very You might now wonder what the nicely in Admirals hands, because it gaining speed part of the freight train becomes more and more a survival is all about.
Well, weve made changes of the fittest.
And were one of, if to our reinsurance arrangements that not the, fittest.
And in those markets will mean we get a greater share of any where we have fledgling businesses, underwriting profits in the future.
This additional shopping around will only means that even if we stand still, well make our job easier.
A couple of years ago we revised the existing agreement with Munich Re in favour of an agreement that goes until at least 2014.
The new agreement gives us better profit share terms in 2007- 8-9 and then further improvements in 2010 and beyond.
The benefits of these profit share improvements are only just starting to hit the bottom line with releases from the 2007 underwriting year.
In addition, in order to give us greater control over Freight Train Gaining Speed our book, Munich Re is in the middle The aforementioned freight train is of a multi-year process of stepping our UK direct business.
We continue back from underwriting 65% 2006 to to grow the number of customers 40% 2011.
For 2008 they took 55% we serve, premium income, ancillary and for 2009 they will take 50%.
We revenues and, not surprisingly, our have been fortunate to replace this profits.
The number of vehicles we capacity for 2009, 2010 and 2011 with insure in the UK grew by 15% in 2008. other reinsurers, with arrangements 15%!
The profits increased from 142m that are shorter in duration and smaller to 180m.
Other signs of our excellent in size, such that we retain a greater performance here are: proportion of the profits than the Premium income increased by 12%, Munich Re deal.
from 617m to 690m: In addition to getting a greater share Combined ratio fell from 83% to 81%: of the profits through improved Ancillary income per vehicle rose reinsurance arrangements we fully from 69 to 71: expect the UK business to grow further in 2009.
The combination of All of this was achieved in an all these factors means that the lowenvironment where distribution risk, capital-lite, high-dividend model patterns were changing rapidly and moves forward in 2009. price hikes were hard to come by.
In particular, were really quite proud of our ability to increase the Headlines dont mirror ancillary contribution per vehicle, reality albeit modestly 69.00 to 70.70.
The UK car insurance market remains Growing or even keeping the ancillary a very competitive place.
The market contribution per vehicle stable is performed pretty much as we forecast challenging in the current economic with rates grudgingly sloth-like?
However, our track record on inching upwards in 2008.
Based this is good and we feel comfortable on our data, headlines of 5%-10% that ancillary income per vehicle in rate increases during the year are 2009 will be close to, if not above, the misleading.
I dont know the exact 2008 figure.
methodology of either the AA or 1 2 c h I E f E X E c U t I V E s s tAt E M E n t Deloittes price trackers but Id be On the rates stable or moving down surprised if they pick up on special side there is lack of intense pain in offers like Direct Lines early 2009 offer the industry.
It does not appear that of 12 months cover for 10 months cost the industry as a whole is suffering a implying a 16.6% price reduction or any lot: combined ratios plus profits from special rates on price comparison sites.
ancillary products, after releases for A recent review of prices done solely 2007 latest data available indicate the on price comparison sites indicated, for market makes a reasonable return on instance, that the best rate offered for a capital.
Economic pain is always the variety of risks actually declined by 1% greatest catalyst for price increases and in January 2009. if that pain does not exist then insurers generally do not increase rates.
In Rate increases are being muted by the addition, the further growth of price dominance of price comparison sites, comparison sites means more and where consumers naturally drift to the more consumers will get the industrys lowest price offered.
One measure lowest rate, pinning the industry to we use to gauge price changes by the rate increases only as dictated by the market is the percentage times one slowest mover for any individual risk.
of our brands comes up first on price Lastly, the recession might result in comparison sites.
This percentage people driving less and, despite the stayed roughly the same throughout difficult winter, this would have a 2008.
Meanwhile, during the year we beneficial effect on frequency, which moved our rates up, on average, 4%.
might lead to insurers deciding to hold This leads me to think that the market the line on, or even decrease, rates.
moved its rates up about 4% as well.
All in all, I think it means a bit of a However, I dont think this modest sleepy year on rates, with the above price move means the results for the cocktail of factors working to produce market will be poor.
In my opinion, rate increases similar to 2008.
For subdued claims inflation, led by those needing animal imagery Id reduced accident frequency, will suggest the koala bear.
There are a result in this year being no worse for number of idiosyncrasies about the the market than 2007.
I think 2008 koala bear that resonate with similarity will again be marked by large reserve to the UK car insurance market.
Here releases by the market as a whole.
are three, I leave it to you to pick and choose which ones best represent the Its not yet clear how rates will trend UK car insurance market: koalas sleep in 2009.
There are competing factors some 16 hours a day, they can be nasty that influence the potential of rate if provoked and they are known to increases and rate decreases.
rates moving up side, there is the decline in interest rates and therefore Fierce competition investment income.
With firms Confused had a pretty good year.
earning less investment income there However, as predicted, competition is added pressure to produce a better was fierce and as a result profits underwriting result.
In addition, lower reduced from 37m in 2007 to 26m in petrol prices might spur more driving, 2008.
The spend on TV and press by which would result in more accidents, price comparison sites has gone from which in turn should lead to price The UK car insurance market?
Already the winter has been in 2007 to 76m in 2008.
Confuseds more severe than many recent winters, portion of this spend has gone from with a corresponding rise in frequency.
virtually 100% in 06, to a third of the All of these factors weigh in favour of spend in 07 to around a fifth of the rate increases.
Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 1 3 45.0 40.0 35.0 30.0 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0.0 H1 07 H2 07 H1 08 H2 08 Price comparison market media spend m spend in 08.
Simply put, competition It is very hard to predict Confuseds has taken a lot of profit out of this result for 2009, the sector remains market through increased marketing under intense competitive pressures.
costs, despite continued growth in However, the market is still growing the number of people using price and this, coupled with the changes comparison sites.
The dominance of Confused made at the end of 2008, price comparison sites as the method has resulted in Confused producing of choice for buying car insurance in the biggest number of car insurance the UK is reflected by: quotes ever in January 2009.
But, Im sorry to say, it was not a record month The fact that in 2008 73% of for profits.
The missing data point to Admirals new business originated the future is how much money each through price comparison sites, up of the competitors in this sector is from 50% in 2007, up from 30% in willing to spend in 2009 to try and 2006. reach, or grow, profitability.
If January TV and press advertising by price is anything to go by then Britain will comparison sites as a percentage the new confused.
be seeing a lot of price comparison of all car insurance TV and press advertising during the year!
Its not just add water The fact that only one brand has yet to have a presence on any and stir price comparison site and thats We are in the process of sowing Direct Line.
Even all the other RBS the seeds of our future growth and insurance brands have joined price success with the development of comparison panels.
our businesses outside the UK.
In 10 years time I expect these seeds But enough whinging about what a to be a forest of profit growth for tough world it is, let me tell you what the Group.
However, the non-UK Confused is doing to respond.
First, we operations should not be expected to took the better part of 2008 to rebuild make any noticeable return for a few the quote engine.
Building profitable, growing, easier for the customer.
It also looks sustainable direct operations takes better.
Balumba, in Spain, has only just new TV campaign which, given the completed its second full year of number of times people have seen the trading, AdmiralDirekt in Germany is old campaign over the last few years, less than two years old and ConTe in will certainly be welcomed by the Italy only launched at the very end of British public.
Third, we are improving May 2008.
The development of these Confuseds offerings of other products.
businesses outside the UK will take In particular were seeing growth not only time, but also money.
Not a in household insurance and energy lot of money, but money nonetheless.
1 c h I E f E X E c U t I V E s s tAt E M E n t We dont do things on a grand scale lose the ability to test, re-calibrate, reuntil we are quite confident of the test, re-re-calibrate, etc.
that we employ result and we work hard to learn as we everywhere else.
You can test but then go, but as we grow these businesses you have to wait 42 weeks to re-calibrate!
on top of each other the capital requirement increases.
This should Theres good news and bad news from not put off investors, as our business AdmiralDirekt.
On the 1st of January model generates cash and we have no 2009 from the 2008 season we had debt to repay.
This was at the high end of our expectations.
Balumba was challenged to improve Thats the good news.
The bad news its loss ratio in 2008 and it did so.
The is that the 8,000 policyholders that loss ratio for 2007 at the end of 2007 went on risk on January 1, 2008 did was 137%.
The loss ratio for 2008 at not perform well.
The loss ratio for the end of 2008 was 102%.
We are the 2008 year at the end of 2008 looking for continued improvement was 142%.
Part of this is the volatility in 2009.
Improving the loss ratio was inherent in a small book of business our primary focus during the year and where one or two large claims make while we were making adjustments to a big difference.
But part of this too pricing and claims management we is down to an inexperience in claims pulled back a bit on our advertising handling and the typically poorer spend, resulting in the number of loss ratios that accompany first year customers Balumba services growing business.
Balumbas earned combined ratio was Our reaction to these problems was 165% for the year, compared to 232% to spend a lot of energy improving in 2007.
Overall however, Balumba the claims systems and re-calibrating posted a loss of only 1.2m 1.5m.
Our renewal rate for this This sum appears modest largely due season was low enough to lead us to to the sale of ancillary products and believe our pricing re-calibration had services to its customers.
Now we wait to see how nice income to have but the key to this years customers perform.
long-term success for Balumba is to become a good insurer.
In Italy we were successful in launching ConTe on schedule and within budget The German market is an odd beast at the end of May.
However, as wed certainly bigger and arguably even seen Balumba and, to some extent, less friendly than a koala.
fide, grow their respective season for car insurance in Germany volumes quickly to the detriment of that runs about 10 weeks, from early their loss ratios, in Italy we put rates October to early December.
There is up from the outset to protect the very limited activity during the rest of loss ratio.
The result was our writing the year.
This comes about because just 3,660 policies in the year with almost the entire market renews on annualised premium income of 1.4m.
a single date, January 1, and consumers However, the 2008 loss ratio at the end have to give their insurers a months of 2008 was 87%!
But the loss ratio on notice to leave them, which means such a small premium income is subject they have to give notice by the end to dramatic change with even a single of November.
After that the only claim.
As the year ended we were resubstantial group of people shopping calibrating rates to stimulate sales.
are those who are changing vehicle.
Besides the difficult logistics of trying In sum, I am pleased with the progress to gear up for a short sales window, you weve made in Spain, Germany and Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 1 Italy despite the challenges noted 1 Profit before tax up 11% to 202.5m above.
They all hold great potential 2 Number of customers up 17% to for the future.
1.75m 3 Turnover up 13% to 910m 4 Combined ratio still well below Stick to the strategy 90% at 86% Our strategy has been and continues 5 Top 10 in the FT Best Companies To to be, rather simple: continue our Work For: 37th in the Sunday Times profitable growth in the UK and take Best Companies To Work For in the what we know and do well and do it UK elsewhere.
This means expanding our 6 Launched ConTe in Italy direct businesses geographically to 7 Still debtfree take advantage of changing distribution 8 Record dividend of 52.5p per share patterns in countries with large, mature for the year 3 th best company to car insurance markets.
I believe that 9 Robust return on capital of 57% Work for in the UK 200 this is the way to ensure a prosperous 56% 2007 future.
For 2009 this means that, 10 Robust return on income of 56% besides continuing to invest in our 57% 2007 Spanish, German and Italian operations, 11 Number of people employed in we are working on a launch in the the Group rose to 3,110 from 2,500 United States, the worlds largest car 24%, we opened a new office in insurance market.
Newport Wales, not Rhode Island and were hiring in every operation!
The business in the US will start small, one or two states to begin with and, if It is a hugely exciting time within successful, expand to other interesting Admiral Group and Im glad to be states.
The company, which has yet to a part of it.
I am fortunate to work be named, will be based in Richmond, with intelligent, highly motivated, nice Va. and should launch either in the final people.
Id like to say a specific thanks quarter of 2009 or first quarter of 2010. to all the senior managers who are so Our strategic plan has always shown five dedicated to Admiral Group and to all markets to expand into.
With the US the staff in all our offices who work coming on-stream that would leave only hard every day to provide a great service the French market left on the list and we to our customers.
Im looking forward are beginning to investigate this market.
to another excellent year in 2009.
We are also looking to expand the international presence of our Confused Opening of the new business.
The first launch outside newport office the UK will again be Spain, with an operation called Rastreator a made up word, but close to rastreador, which means tracker.
The growth of internet distribution for car insurance Henry Engelhardt makes this market interesting for price Chief Executive Officer comparison.
This business should go live sometime in the first half of 2009.
Highlights Okay, if anyones gotten through all that, its time for some highlights of 2008.
Im proud to say that it was another excellent year for the Admiral Group:
