qxp:13245 BG ARA p0 20 3 09 16:14 Page 8 8 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives statement power business, which is sensitive to demand conditions, amid weakness in the US economy.
Clear and powerful strategy BG Groups strategy is as clear and powerful today as when it was conceived over ten years ago: we focus on specific high-value markets, and then secure competitively priced resources to connect to those markets.
The Group is now a truly global gas company, active in the worlds key gas markets, with a geographically diverse set of long-life, low-cost assets in E&P and LNG which position our business strongly in todays price environment.
Further details are set out in the Strategy section on page 11.
Whilst our strategy has remained stable, the business context has seen a dramatic change over the last 12 months.
There are signs of a severe downturn in the global Frank Chapman economy.
Oil prices have fallen as a result Chief Executive of the actual and expected reduction in demand.
Some gas prices have also fallen, due to the explicit linkage to oil prices and Record operating profits, and inter-fuel competition, although the fall has been less marked than in oil.
Given the well-placed to create significant gas emphasis in the Groups portfolio, we therefore expect our financial performance to be less sensitive than many of our value over the next decade.
competitors to the fall in oil price.
Our operations are inherently robust across a wide range of oil and gas prices, due to BG Group delivered an excellent performance Our Liquefied Natural Gas LNG business the low unit costs and the long producing in 2008, with total operating profit up 65% maintained its growth in 2008, closing lives of many of our assets.
to a new record of 5 355 million.
Underlying the year with a record operating profit of performance was also very strong, with 1 585 million, up 204% on the previous Industry costs are beginning to respond to earnings per share up 28% at constant year 2007 521 million.
In February 2009, the downturn in activity, with sharp falls in upstream prices and exchange rates.
Together the Group upgraded and extended its the costs of some raw materials.
We also expect with this solid profit progression, BG Group guidance for the LNG segments operating manufacturer and supplier margins to fall over continued to benefit from exploration success profit for 2009 1.4 to 1.5 billion and for the next 12 to 18 months.
This brings to an end and transformational strategic progress in 2010 1.2 to 1.3 billion.
a phase of rising costs and presents a clear Brazil and Australia.
Although current market opportunity to lock in lower unit costs across BG Groups Transmission and Distribution conditions are challenging, the Groups proven our large portfolio of new projects.
T&D and Power Generation Power strategy, long-life and low-cost asset base, attractive and growing opportunity set, low business interests enable the Group to Amid capital scarcity, resource-owning host secure opportunities to create value at all governments now need investment more gearing and rigorous capital discipline mean we are well-placed to continue creating points along the gas chain.
They compete with other nations significant value for our shareholders over Group reported a good underlying T&D for foreign direct investment and, in our view, the next decade.
performance with increased customer know the importance that investors place on numbers.
However, reported performance stability and sanctity of contract.
We have Group operating performance at Comgs, the Groups Brazilian subsidiary, long emphasised our pursuit of alignment I am pleased to report that BG Group was down by 45% to 115 million due to with governments and key stakeholders, achieved record earnings of 3 068 million higher gas costs.
An aggregate of 161 million building our approach to sustainability on in 2008 2007 1 783 million.
In Exploration of higher gas costs will be recovered in the development of long-term relationships and Production E&P, volumes increased future periods.
Total operating profit in and shared benefits.
Further details of our 3% to 226.7 million barrels of oil equivalent Power decreased by 9% to 118 million approach to stakeholder alignment can be mmboe 2007 220.3 mmboe.
These 2007 130 million due to lower availability found in The way we work on page 35 and volume increases and higher prices drove following a turbine failure at Seabank in in the 2008 BG Group Sustainability Report, a 47% increase in E&P operating profits to referred to below.
the UK and lower profits in the Groups US For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 75.
At 2009 reference conditions, see page 136. www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p06-10 vAW2.
qxp:Layout 1 19 3 09 17:08 Page 9 9 Whilst the recession is currently reducing the Group has termed-out a proportion phase on Guar, at up to 100 000 bopd, aggregate demand, economic growth will of our exible LNG volumes into premium is planned to commence in 2012.
A similar return in the future.
We are therefore markets to protect short-term margins, a initial development phase of up to confident that demand for natural gas will strategy anticipated to have positive effects 100 000 bopd is planned for Iara in 2013. on our 2009 and 2010 LNG profit outlook.
continue to grow in future, driven by its Exploration and appraisal success in Brazil abundance, cost efficiency and significantly In February 2008, BG Group made its initial and Australia, together with progress across lower carbon impact than other fossil fuels.
investment in Queensland Gas Company the rest of the portfolio, increased the The underlying industry challenge which Limited QGC in Australia, announcing an Groups proved and probable reserves to will persist long after the recession is past alliance to develop QGCs substantial coal more than 5.8 billion boe in 2008 up 64%.
BG Group seam gas reserves.
One year later shortly During the year, BG Group increased its total has a proven track record in accessing after the period under review QGC entered reserves and resources base by 31% to more prospective acreage and in finding and the final stages of integration as a BG Group than 13 billion boe, equivalent to 58 years then commercialising resources.
In just business after a recommended takeover, of production at 2008 levels.
The Groups the last three years, we have added more announced in October 2008. one year average reserve replacement rate than 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent boe, was 285% in 2008.
Excluding the effects of almost doubling our resource base.
The acquisition of QGC is a very significant changes in benchmark prices, the reserve strategic development for BG Group, delivering That performance is coupled with strict replacement rate was 165% in 2008. low-cost resource in an attractive location.
capital discipline, consistently applied The asset will play an important role in our Production highlights included record through a rigorous investment process, gross production from the super-giant long-term global gas strategy and is expected which ensures that the Group is a low-cost to be a major source of growth and value Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan: continued operator with good returns and a strong creation over the next two decades.
The success in adding reserves and a further financial position.
Moreover, our portfolio strategic rationale is clear and compelling.
plateau extension in the UK North Sea: daily contains a spectrum of projects where there QGC provides BG Group with a substantial production records in India and Egypt: and is powerful alignment with partners and and low-cost resource base from which the first gas in early 2009 from the Poinsettia governments, thereby minimising one of Group intends to develop a significant source development in Trinidad and Tobago.
Further the greatest impediments to project of LNG supply, wholly-owned and BG Groupdetails of these and other developments implementation the misalignment of operated, in a stable and attractive investment during the year are set out in the partner objectives with economic and setting with access to BG Groups Asia Pacific E&P Operating review on page 20. political factors.
customer base in some of the highest-value Sustainability in practice 2008 was a year of immense strategic markets in the world.
As the Chairman has explained, this year progress for the Group.
Our achievements QGC is now proving up reserves for the we are publishing BG Groups Sustainability in Brazil and Australia, outlined below and two-train Queensland Curtis LNG QCLNG Report as a companion to the Annual Report later in this Report, represent transformational export facility on Curtis Island in the port and Accounts.
This reects our view that success in the development of our global of Gladstone where we plan to corporate performance will not be strategy.
BG Group has an immensely sustainable over an extended period unless manufacture around 7.4 million tonnes per strong resource base, sufficient to support annum of LNG, beginning in 2014 as well it is founded on enduring and positive production of up to 1.6 million boe per day as for downstream markets in eastern relationships with all who have an interest by 2020.
This is an industry-leading growth Australia.
During the year, exploration in the Groups activities.
Further details of profile and for more than a decade to come.
and appraisal work increased proved and our approach are set out in The way we As a consequence of all of this progress, in probable reserves to 3.7 trillion cubic feet work on page 35.
2008 we added very materially to todays tcf and total resources to more than 11 tcf.
intrinsic value of BG Group.
Of paramount importance to BG Group is The Santos Basin pre-salt, offshore Brazil, our duty to operate safely and provide a Key portfolio developments continued to be a major source of exploration safe place of work for our employees and BG Groups LNG business delivered excellent success for BG Group in 2008.
Everyone in BG Group shares results in 2008, underlining once again the BG Group and its partners reported two major equally a duty to ensure that we and our value that we are able to create from our world-class discoveries, Guar and Iara, which colleagues are able to return home safely growing array of complementary LNG assets.
followed previous successes, notably the to our families at the end of each shift or We are now a global LNG leader, with a super-giant Tupi discovery.
footprint of supply and markets across the globe.
Our strategy is uniquely built around It is now estimated that the Santos Basin In 2005, BG Group introduced the Step Up a highly exible portfolio, characterised by pre-salt discoveries amongst the worlds in Safety initiative.
This intensive, Group-wide both longevity and scale together with a largest in recent years could yield more programme was designed to reinforce safe low-cost advantage which we believe than 3 billion boe of net reserves to behaviours at every level and location cannot be replicated by our competitors.
The partners have sanctioned worldwide, embedded through extensive and mandatory training modules for all New LNG supply is soon to enter the market, the 100 000 barrels of oil per day bopd which combined with the current reduction initial development phase on Tupi, with employees.
Complementing this work, in global demand will lead to an easing of first production expected by late 2010. in 2007, the Step Up in Asset Integrity market tightness.
Anticipating these changes, Production from the initial development programme was launched.
Building on the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BG078 p06-10 vAW2.
qxp:13245 BG ARA p0 20 3 09 10:45 Page 10 10 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives statement continued Groups existing asset integrity programmes, Conclusion this draws on industry lessons learnt from Our strategy and performance have delivered, incidents, including the 2005 Texas City as intended, sustained high earnings growth refinery explosion, in order to enhance the and good financial returns, and we have behaviours and processes required to ensure assembled an outstanding opportunity set.
safe and efficient plant operations.
Amid all of the current economic gloom, These initiatives and others underpin a BG Group has today the financial strength rigorous focus on safety management to realise a bright and a positive future.
systems in all aspects of the Groups This is a reection of the many individual activities.
In 2008, that focus was reected contributions of the people of BG Group.
in a number of important milestones, Their ambition, skills and capabilities are including 20 million man hours worked a critical source of the Groups competitive without a lost time incident at our advantage, and I would like to thank them Karachaganak operation in Kazakhstan, and for all they have achieved over the year.
an industry-recognised DuPont award for performance improvement at Karachaganak.
However, despite these efforts and achievements, the Groups overall Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF increased in 2008 to 1.74 per million hours worked 2007 1.58.
I greatly regret to report the deaths of three contractors during the Frank Chapman period under review.
The first, a contractor Chief Executive who died during street works in Gujarat, was the focus of an investigation that I mentioned in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
In June 2008, a contractor was killed when a heater exploded on the Panna platform, offshore India, and in December 2008, a contractor died during pipe handling operations in Comgs in So Paulo, Brazil.
These accidents and the underlying trend data are a source of serious concern.
At BG Group we believe every incident is preventable, and our goal is zero injuries.
Throughout 2009, we will continue to examine in detail our behavioural programmes, processes and systems to embed safe working practices amongst contractors, as well as our staff, to reduce the scope for such incidents in future.
Group Executive Committee I am delighted to note two new appointments to the Group Executive Committee.
Robert Booker was appointed as Executive Vice President of Human Resources in February 2009, having been with BG Group since 2006.
Catherine Tanna joined us in March 2009 as our new Executive Vice President and Managing Director in Australia.
