42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 4 4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Chief Executives statement Alliance Trust Investor Magazine.
Alan Harden A year ago I wrote of our growing apprehension about the valuations placed on financial assets and the way that risk was being priced by investors.
We, therefore, began this financial year with reduced exposure to quoted equities and with 7.4% of our assets held in cash.
We were earlier than most in adopting this cautious stance and, with the benefit of hindsight, we should have been even more defensive throughout 2007.
The troubles that hit the financial sector in the middle of the year and spilled out into all sections of the US and world financial markets were deeper and have lasted longer than we expected.
The effects are still causing uncertainty today.
Overall, in our last financial year, stock markets delivered a harsh reminder of the challenge we face when investing to generate a substantial, positive real gain regardless of the investment environment and market conditions.
However, the difficulties in the credit market and the resulting market turbulence also underlined the value of the strong diversified balance sheet of Alliance Trust.
We are disappointed with our results, particularly for capital growth, and our resulting negative total shareholder return of 5.6% for the year.
Our NAV fell 4.6%, but we did outperform the FTSE All-Share Index, which fell 6.6%.
Throughout last year the discount remained high and ended the year at 16.0%.
We believe that this level of discount undervalues our Company.
Our target is substantially to outperform a real return measure over the medium to long term.
You will find on page 9 one of In our last financial year, stock our Key Performance Indicators which illustrates that over both markets delivered a harsh reminder a three and a five year period this objective has been achieved.
of the challenge we face when However, we have underperformed our real return target on a one year basis.
investing to generate a substantial, As Alliance Trust celebrates its 120th year, we are more conscious positive real gain regardless of the than most that economic and market cycles bring potential investment environment and benefits for an investment company with a long term outlook.
Last years events have reinforced our commitment to a diversified multi-asset class investment strategy: to deliver substantial and sustainable investment performance complemented by returns from our financial services subsidiaries.
The classes in which we invest are quoted equities, private equity, property and our subsidiaries.
We believe that by executing this strategy the resulting growth in our Companys value and earnings will deliver a substantial benefit to all our shareholders and, in so doing, address the current discount between our share price and our net asset value in a sustainable manner.
We ended the year with 5.4% 2.8% in private equity, 3.4% 2.8% in property and 1.5% 1.7% in subsidiaries.
The extent of Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 5 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 5 Graeme Farrer and Laurie Don, Asset Management.
Property portfolio: Montieth House, Glasgow.
due diligence required when investing in property and private equity does, however, mean that finding the best investments takes time.
The total invested in private equity increased in absolute terms.
Quoted equity investment at the year end was 93.5% 84.2%.
Net gearing at the year-end was 4.8%, compared to the 2007 year-end when the portfolio was not geared and we held 7.4% cash.
Improvements in revenue were heartening for our strategy to deliver future returns from growth in both revenue and capital.
Our aim is to create value within our group and we expect our investment in subsidiary companies to deliver further returns both through a reassessment of their enterprise value as well as through future improvements in revenue.
In the last financial year, business units, including property, private equity and our financial services subsidiary, all delivered higher revenue, showing how several income streams from different business areas can help to offset capital losses in years of exceptional volatility on markets.
Last years events have reinforced our commitment to a diversified multi-asset class investment strategy.
Our immediate priority is to improve our Companys investment performance and we have put in place improved processes that will allow us to invest with greater flexibility, magnify the effect of investment decisions and increase the tools at our disposal.
Our new Chief Investment Officer Katherine Garrett-Cox has been instrumental in driving this and creating a stronger structure for decision making.
More information is contained in her report on pages 10 to 13.
We remain concerned about the outlook for western economies and markets over the rest of this year.
The US economy may already be in recession, and policy to correct this could take some time to take effect.
Policy makers in the US have responded swiftly with a combination of fiscal and monetary measures but the proposed tax rebates will not be delivered until later in the year and the squeeze in financial markets has prevented interest rate cuts from being fully passed on.
Meanwhile corporate margins are expected to remain under pressure.
These problems may prove to be even more acute in the UK.
Although we have had three cuts in interest rates so far, there are few signs of these being passed onto consumers.
Households are struggling under considerable debt and rising basic costs, access to credit is becoming increasingly difficult, and 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 6 6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Tom Bell, Operations, Alliance Trust Savings.
Paul Horton and Kelly ODonnell, Business Development.
discretionary consumer spending is coming under considerable pressure.
Our concerns are magnified by the relatively slow response of policy makers who are grappling with rising inflation and a fiscal budget which was looking particularly stretched, even before this downturn began.
The UK has enjoyed 15 years of continuous growth but now faces the threat of a major slowdown.
We are more positive about our outlook for Asia, where we expect economic activity to hold up relatively well.
If turmoil in financial markets in the West can be largely contained, then the momentum for longer term growth in the East should continue.
Alliance Trust has lower volatility, and hence risk, than many of our peers as illustrated on the chart below which shows that our five-year share price volatility, which is considered a fair measure of risk, was almost the lowest of all our peer group.
Higher returns than ours generally came only when companies took on high levels of risk, as is shown by those companies towards the top right hand side of the chart.
We are committed to managing risk actively to achieve an appropriate level of reward.
Our current risk averse portfolio gives us scope to increase risk towards the median level so as to increase rewards.
The current level of gearing is modest, particularly since our growing diversification across different asset classes helps offset risk.
As we diversify further, we would expect to increase borrowing gradually to take advantage of market opportunities in any asset class.
We are pleased by the progress of our private equity team.
We increased our investments in this asset class from 81m to 145m.
In addition, we entered into a series of relationships with private equity managers who have a track record, resources and expertise, investing in their management companies and Risk vs Return over 5 years for Global Growth and Global Growth & Income Sector Investment Trusts Low Risk, High Return Alliance Trust High Risk, Low Return Risk Source: Thomson Financial Datastream.
Return Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:21 Page 7 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 7 The site of the new headquarters, Dundee.
An artists impression of the new headquarters, Dundee.
funds as well as coinvesting directly alongside them in companies we find attractive.
In this way we seek to maximise the benefit we get from each relationship.
Although the short-term market turned against commercial property, with capital valuations falling, revenue from our property portfolio doubled.
Our property portfolio is a defensive one since it targets first-class property in aspirational areas.
The We are committed to value to the Company of its property investments is the future income that they will generate and rental income on our portfolio managing risk actively to remains attractive.
Falling prices, along with a squeeze on credit, mean that opportunities are appearing and we are rebuilding our achieve an appropriate property team to take advantage of these as they arise.
We continue to develop our complementary subsidiary financial services businesses, primarily Alliance Trust Savings, which offers services including sharedealing, tax efficient ISAs and self-invested personal pensions SIPPs.
Alliance Trust Savings continued investment in systems has provided it with a more robust infrastructure as well as positioning it to grow and deliver enhancements to its products and services which will satisfy the needs of the informed private investor and open up a new market among all advisors.
During the year we have addressed challenges in our full SIPP business through relocating administration functions to Dundee.
Revenue and client numbers at Alliance Trust Savings continued to grow strongly during the year.
We are creating a UK asset management business further to exploit our core competencies and to create an additional revenue stream for the Company.
This new company will give investors access to the Alliance Trust style of investment in a range of specialist funds.
Like Alliance Trust Savings, this company is 100% owned by Alliance Trust PLC.
The successful completion in Spring 2009 of our new headquarters in Dundee will further enhance our drive for greater efficiency across the group by bringing together teams from three premises into one so that we may continue to build businesses that work well together.
Already this work is well advanced.
The main focus of our business this year will be: To continue to improve our investment performance and increase the positive effect of our asset allocation To reach operational profitability in Alliance Trust Savings To develop our UK asset management business
