Chief Executive Officers statement The Group results for the year ended 30 June 2008 are satisfactory from a number of perspectives.
The Group results for the year ended AuM US$bn 30 June 2008 are satisfactory from a Special number of perspectives.
Firstly in situations Equity Dollar debt Local currency absolute financial terms they demonstrate the further progress made 7% 70% 62% -60% against the results of prior periods and our own forecasts.
Secondly we have 08 08 08 08 continued to make progress from an 22.7 8.5 5.5 0.8 operational point of view with fund launches, further product innovation 07 07 07 07 21.2 5.0 3.4 2.0 and the implementation of significant infrastructural initiatives aimed at developing an even more robust platform for the Groups continued development.
Finally, we have undertaken further steps to begin to develop a network of local asset management operations in some of the worlds key emerging markets.
Through net subscriptions of The overall growth in AuM has driven all taken place in global financial market US$3.0 billion and investment the Groups 44% increase in net conditions judged by many performance of US$2.9 billion we have management fee income to commentators to be as difficult as any reached a closing level for AuM at 182.0 million in the year to 30 June they can remember which have both 30 June 2008 of US$37.5 billion.
2008 year ended 30 June 2007: 126.4 made the execution of an active style of As we forecast the AuM growth has been million.
The Group remains focused on investment management a greater strongest in our local currency theme the delivery of a high proportion of its challenge and generally reduced where overall levels of AuM were 70% investor appetite for risk.
I will expand higher at US$8.5 billion at the end of upon these in my report and then the period than a year earlier, followed outline the strategic rationale and some by special situations where AuM have Growth in AuM US$bn of the emerging market dynamics that grown by 62% to US$5.5 billion over the we believe position the Group well for period.
The AuM growth within these 2.9 future success.
two themes is in line with our view of the 0.6 2.4 significant future opportunity they present.
Our dollar debt theme has AuM US$bn seen gross subscriptions exactly matched by redemptions so growth in 19% this theme arises from investment 37.5 performance of US$1.5 billion, and, 31.6 08 37.5 as anticipated and targeted several of the redemptions in this theme have been prompted by reallocation into local 16 07 13 31.6 currency mandates where there are opportunities for higher returns.
The equity theme has completed a difficult year in line with global equity AuM at June 2007 Assets under Management markets and whilst the investment Net subscriptions existing funds AuM and financial performance has been flat, there have Net subscriptions new funds performance been redemptions as investors have Performance At the end of the previous financial year, allocated away from equities resulting in AuM at June 2008 30 June 2007, AuM stood at US$31.6 a US$1.2 billion reduction in AuM.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 Chief Executive Officers statement continued The Group remains focused on the delivery of a high proportion of its overall revenue from high margin management fees.
innovation the year began with the Net management fees m Performance fees m launch of our fourth global special situations fund GSSF4 which closed 44% 119% with commitments totalling US$1.4 billion.
Thereafter, developments in 08 08 182.0 44.7 emerging markets corporate debt, following significant repricing in these markets, provided Ashmore with the 07 07 126.4 20.4 opportunity to launch a dedicated corporate high yield fund and establish it as a new investment theme in October 2007 offering enhanced levels of return overall revenue from high margin with a low correlation to the dollar debt management fees.
We expect this to grow over time income has also increased significantly as the credit markets stabilise.
to 44.7 million, an increase of 119% from 20.4 million in the previous year In December 2007 we completed the which has been delivered across all our launch of a permanent capital vehicle investment themes.
Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited through which we raised 500 million via These two principle sources of revenue Net revenue m a listing on the London Stock Exchange.
together with other income result in This fund was established to focus on strong growth in our overall net revenue the special situations theme enabling a by 50% to 240.0 million year ended 50% new client base to invest in this theme 30 June 2007: 159.8 million.
via a listed vehicle with daily liquidity 08 240.0 After costs of 58.8 million year ended and pricing.
It contributed US$250 30 June 2007: 38.1 million and million of the GSSF4 commitments and interest income of 15.0 million year 07 will be provided allocations in future 159.8 ended 30 June 2007: 9.7 million this special situations funds.
results in a profit before tax of 196.2 million, an increase of 49% in the year In January 2008 we launched a year ended 30 June 2007: 131.4 dedicated Brazilian local currency fund million.
Basic earnings per share for domiciled in Guernsey managed by our the year was 21.0p 2007: 13.7p, a newly established fund management 53% increase in the year.
This was followed in April by the launch of a Operational delivery Brazilian onshore local currency fund From an operational perspective in the targeting domestic institutional investors area of fund launches and product which, in line with the strategy 6 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 The Group now manages 50 The Groups strategy remains consistent: to deliver funds across its five investment themes.
long term investment outperformance: generate 50 and diversify net management fee income through the attraction of net subscriptions across an Number of funds 30 June increasing variety of investment themes: and 50 develop the Ashmore brand and business.
7 41 36 8 16 9 14 3 12 3 2 24 16 13 previously outlined, the Group seeded Group with development, continuity and 06 07 08 in the amount of BRL49.3 million expansion to enable us to execute our 15.1 million.
White label dual branded Segregated Investment activity within the special Structured Strategic positioning situations theme had resulted in GSSF4 The Groups strategy remains Ashmore sponsored being 70% drawn down at 30 June consistent: to deliver long term 2008 and it has since become fully investment outperformance: generate drawn.
Given the significant ongoing and diversify net management fee investment opportunities within this income through the attraction of net theme, we announced in June 2008 the subscriptions across an increasing beginning of marketing the next special variety of investment themes: and situations fund GSSF5 which we expect develop the Ashmore brand and to close in the new financial year.
In evaluating our progress The year has also been a busy one in toward the achievement of our strategic the area of infrastructure projects, the goals and evaluating the future implementation of a new fund opportunity available we consider all of accounting system, the migration of these across three phases of fund administration services for the development establishment, Groups global public funds to a single diversification and emerging market service provider and in May 2008 the capital mobilisation.
relocation of the entire London based staff to a new office.
In all cases these The first of these phases is largely projects were executed following completed: establishing the emerging months of planning by multi-disciplinary market fixed income asset class: teams and are aimed at providing the educating the investor base: refining the The year has also been a busy one in the area of infrastructure projects, the implementation of a new fund accounting system and in May 2008 the relocation of the entire London based staff to a new office.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 7 Chief Executive Officers statement continued One of the major driving forces of future growth is the macro one, based on the low allocations that investors from the developed world have so far made to emerging markets, and how these will change in the future as those markets outgrow the developed world.
investment processes and creating the Investor allocations to emerging performance track record to attract the markets investment of developed world capital Whilst the first phase establishment into the emerging markets.
is largely complete, there is significant future potential for strong growth in the The second phase continues to apply second - diversification - phase.
to the management of developed world capital into emerging markets as we One of the major driving forces of grow our AuM diversifying by future growth is the macro one, based investment themes, product structures, on the low allocations that investors investor type, investor geography and from the developed world have so far distribution route.
This is an ongoing made to emerging markets, and how process where we have a great deal these will change in the future as those more to do in all areas and which offers markets outgrow the developed world.
We believe that an average institutional Estimation of emerging market investor may currently have an The third phase of our strategy emerging market allocation across contribution to the overall global diversifies the origin of funds that we investment themes anywhere in the economy manage looking toward the capital pools broad range of five to fifteen percent that we consider will grow the most and whilst a progressive investor may have we believe can be mobilised within the an allocation at double these levels.
In this This compares with the emerging Within phase we first use the existing Ashmore 50% markets contribution to the global 10 years central investment processes and funds economy at between fifteen and to manage capital from the largest twenty-five percent when measured by Current emerging world sources of capital cross 15 - 25% contribution either GDP, equity or bond market border into other emerging markets.
Over the next ten Initially this comes from central banks, years or so we would expect the governments reserve managers and emerging market contribution to sovereign wealth funds and gradually increase to over 50% of the overall expand to other domestic institutions.
global economy by all these measures Thereafter we expect to progressively Over the next ten years or so the opportunity for current and establish local asset management so we would expect the future allocations to grow dramatically operations in a number of the worlds is very clear.
We are well positioned to emerging market key emerging economies using our benefit from this allocation shift as we contribution to increase to expertise, investment processes and have a long history of total focus on track record to manage domestic over 50% of the overall emerging markets across all available capital within these markets.
This will global economy by all these asset classes and a commitment to enable us to participate in the significant measures so the broaden our capability in these and long term growth opportunity available new asset classes.
opportunity for current and in these markets both by investing funds future allocations to grow from offshore but also developing Another driver for growth in this second onshore investment management by diversification - phase is the dramatically is very clear.
development of the local currency 8 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Ashmores local currency theme AuM is undergoing the strongest absolute growth of any of our themes.
We believe that this is set to continue and should establish it as our largest theme by volume within three years.
markets, and this is also one of the pension funds in these economies.
principal areas we see having a In order to capitalise on this trend, significant impact upon the pace with we believe that local asset management which emerging markets capital operations on the ground in a number of mobilisation our third phase - is key emerging markets represent the progressing.
other key to participating in the growth and development of the local currency Local currency debt and local and other markets.
asset management operations Our operations now include subsidiaries Ashmores local currency theme AuM in Turkey and India that are active in the are undergoing the strongest absolute local mid-market private equity markets.
growth of any of our themes.
We During this year we have established a believe that this is set to continue and subsidiary operation in Brazil managing should establish it as our largest theme offshore and onshore local currency by volume within three years.
Immediately after the financial Our operations now include continue to encourage our dollar debt year ended in July we received final subsidiaries in Turkey and investors to diversify with us into this stage approval in Turkey from the theme.
The underlying local currency India in the local mid-market Capital Markets Board to establish and debt markets are believed to total over private equity markets and operate a regulated portfolio US$6 trillion at the end of 2007 management business which began in Brazil, managing offshore already five times the size of the operations on 1 August 2008.
Whilst and onshore local currency external debt market in which the financial impact of these operations funds.
Ashmores dollar debt theme invests.
As was not material in context of the local currency markets mature and their overall Group result for the year ended liquidity and duration measures 30 June 2008, we believe going increase we expect to see increased forward that the contribution from the international investment into these local asset management operations markets coming from both developed that the Group establishes will gradually world investors and intra-emerging and progressively contribute market flows.
These latter flows typically meaningfully to the Groups results form the first part of our mobilisation and valuation.
of emerging markets capital phase.
As highlighted above, the earliest Special situations: Opportunities movers in this phase are the largest sources of capital from central banks, and performance fees reserve managers and sovereign wealth Ashmores team were investing in the funds.
Ashmore is already managing special situations asset class, in both local currency funds for a number of distressed debt and private equity such organisations and we see further forms, even before the Groups first fund growth in the number and scale of was established in 1992, and the these mandates in the future.
Thereafter investment into this theme from all we would expect this trend to develop funds, where the investment mandate to include the larger institutions and allows, has continued ever since.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 9 Chief Executive Officers statement continued The Group places a tremendous focus on the process of recruiting like minded individuals from different backgrounds with a common desire to specialise in their field within the emerging markets.
This long history, resultant specialist Our people and culture The operational highlights transaction experience and network of The operational highlights described in described in this report relationships throughout the emerging this report share many common markets are keys to our strength in the share many common features.
Most striking amongst these is area.
As I have described above, the the role of the team at Ashmore, spread features.
Most striking financial year ended 30 June 2008 saw broadly throughout the organisation, amongst these is the role of the closing, drawing down and in making the business a success.
the team at Ashmore, deployment of our fourth global special At 30 June 2008 the Groups headcount spread broadly throughout situations fund GSSF4 and the launch stood at 93, an increase of 24 or 35% of fundraising for our fifth global fund the organisation, in making on the figure a year earlier, with GSSF5.
The investment opportunity additions across the Groups global the business a success.
presented for this asset class going functions in London, and in particular forward is very strong with a significant within local asset management pipeline of attractive potential operations.
The Group places a transactions, and particularly following tremendous focus on the process of the broad reduction of easy credit in recruiting like minded individuals from the market.
different backgrounds with a common desire to specialise in their field within Our first global special situations fund the emerging markets.
This takes time GSSF matured after the financial year but is critical to our success.
I should ended in July five years after its closing like to add my own thanks to those in July 2003, and the mechanics of the expressed in the Chairmans report for fund wind up are underway with first the dedication and commitment that all stage payments made to fund those already in the Ashmore team have shareholders.
As a result of strong made into making the year and the investment returns the fund has business a success.
generated a performance fee of between 15.6 million and 21.0 million Now we move onto next year and as the which will be recognised in the Group grows we continue to work hard financial year ended 30 June 2009, in ensuring that this growth occurs in a the final level being determined by the controlled manner.
Part of this is finalisation of the few remaining asset achieved through the recruitment of a realisations.
broad team of varying talents and the 10 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 We have more value and transactional scope available to us to invest for strong medium term returns over the next 12-24 months than at any time over the previous 5 years.
implementation of initiatives and Against this market backdrop, since the systems aimed at further strengthening year end the Group has experienced our processes and controls.
This is slightly lower subscription activity and ongoing.
At the heart of the organisation some redemptions which, coupled with I believe that we retain and develop the negative market performance, has Ashmore culture and work ethos which resulted in a modest reduction in AuM.
will enable us to execute on and benefit Given the margin profile of these assets, from the significant strategic we remain confident that the revenue opportunities that lie ahead.
We have impact of this has been offset by the much to do, and execution will always increased levels of fees elsewhere be the key, but we continue to look including those performance fees forward to the challenges ahead.
already recorded, demonstrating the Groups robust business model.
August 2008 annual performance It is these dynamics which provide us fees with both challenges and our major Unaudited annual performance fees for opportunity.
We have more value and the funds with annual performance years transactional scope available to us to ended 31 August 2008 including EMLIP invest for strong medium term returns and LCD were 31.0 million August over the next 12-24 months than at any 2007: 17.6 million which will be time over the previous 5 years.
Our task recognised in the financial year ended is to continue persuading investors to 30 June 2009 in addition to the GSSF fee allocate us capital and allow us to detailed above.
execute strategies to capture that value particularly from local currency, in our Outlook statement special situations theme in both The world has not been the most distressed debt and private equity and comfortable place this year.
The general in corporate high yield as well as in our market outlook continues to be difficult, local asset management businesses.
deleveraging has been significant and continues and many investors are doing what they often do in times of stress.... as little as possible, as a precursor to working out where to allocate their Mark Coombs capital as things settle down.
Chief Executive Officer ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 11
