Aviva plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group chief executives perspective Whats happened?
The global economy 2008 was one of the most turbulent years in economic history as a wide range of assets posted record or near record falls.
What began in 2007 as a crisis in US sub-prime mortgages spread first through the global banking system and then the broader economy as credit markets froze and equity markets fell.
Governments introduced a series of measures aimed at restarting lending and supporting economies.
By year-end a large part of the global banking system was effectively under government control.
In a further step, huge stimulus packages were launched to limit the damage, as economies slipped into recession.
However, by the end of the year most of the worlds equity markets had fallen by between 30% and 50%.
In the UK, the pound has weakened dramatically against the dollar and the euro.
The UK economy continues to shrink after 16 years of growth total government debt is now projected to grow by 50% to well over 1 trillion, which is nearly 60% of GDP.
UK interest rates are at an all-time low and unemployment is rising fast, with some forecasters predicting three million out of work by the end of 2009.
Our own industry is not unscathed.
In September 2008 we saw AIG, once the worlds largest insurer, being bailed out with $150 billion from the US government largely due to its non-insurance activities.
At Aviva, we have seen a fall in the value of the investments we hold.
The majority of our investments are measured at fair value according to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and our balance sheet, and consequently our net asset value, reflects substantial unrealised losses on these investments.
However, we hold these instruments for the long term and as markets return to normal behaviour patterns we expect to see these valuations recover.
I wasnt born yesterday We recognise that our customers have their own busy schedules and need to be informed of the progress of their claims in an intelligent and proactive way.
We aim to make it easier for them by contacting them first and take the steps to keep them up to date so they dont need to chase us.
Overview 01 11 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Show us that we matter In the current economic climate customers need as much help and support from their providers as possible.
By listening to, and recognising our customers we are able to develop and tailor our products to suit their requirements and provide help right now, when they need it the most.
Our share price Our share price has fallen significantly during the year and we ended 2008 down 42.1%, against a backdrop of dramatic falls in markets.
In 2008 we have outperformed FTSE 350-life, down 43.3% and FTSE Euro 300-Life, down 62.5%.
Whilst we underperformed the FTSE 100 which ended 2008 down 31.3%, we fared better than most of our European counterparts.
There is no doubt that there is a disconnect between our current share price and the underlying value of the business.
This is true of many sectors, and while investors remain nervous it is likely to persist.
But customers continue to buy insurance, invest and save, with trusted brands like Aviva.
As a result our operating performance has improved in 2008.
You can read full details of our operating performance on pages 22 to 27.
Aviva plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group chief executives perspective continued What action have we taken towards achieving one Aviva, twice the value?
18 19 More on our strategy l 32 35 More on managing risk l Im more than just a customer reference number Managing our risk At Aviva, sound risk management is a key component of our business.
We had already made sensible investment decisions before the credit crunch took hold.
While we had some default losses in the second half of the year on our exposure to AIG, Lehman, Bradford and Bingley, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and Washington Mutual, these were within our limits of acceptable risk.
Since then weve taken further steps to provide against default risk.
In September 2007 we sold 3.4 billion of equities when the FTSE Index was standing at 6,400.
Since then weve introduced safeguards to protect ourselves from further significant falls on the equity markets.
We continuously assess our overall exposure and define the risks that were prepared to accept across the group.
Avivas capital management philosophy is focused on capital efficiency and effective risk management to support our dividend policy and earnings per share growth.
Rigorous capital allocation is one of our primary strategic priorities and is ultimately governed by the Group Executive Committee.
We moved into 2009 with 2.0 billion of regulatory surplus capital and even if the markets fell a further 40%, our IGD surplus would still be around 1.2 billion.
Were constantly looking to improve our capital structure and efficiency.
We have a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity.
Our current Standard & Poors group rating is AA-, or very strong.
These ratings reflect our strong liquidity, competitive position, capital base, increasing underlying earnings and strategic and operational management.
Valuing our customers We are building a culture that puts customers at the heart of our business.
By really understanding what they need we can give them the best possible service and experience of Aviva and earn their long-term loyalty to the brand.
Were in the sixth year of a survey into customer attitudes to saving.
In 2008 we surveyed 28,500 people across 25 markets, bringing the total to over 100,000 responses since we started.
We also launched a challenge, the Customer Cup, in which we invite teams from Avivas offices around the world to identify and implement ways of making a difference to customers and help build customer loyalty.
Our regional structure is helping us to get closer to markets and be more responsive to local opportunities and conditions.
We want Aviva customers to have all the benefits of a global organisation that shapes products to their varying needs and lifestyles, wherever they live.
Overview 01 11 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Valuing our customers means giving them products and services that they need and there are many successful examples throughout the company.
This year in the UK for example, weve launched a ground-breaking new website.
Well tell customers our competitors prices for motor insurance against our own, even if the alternatives are cheaper.
They can also check their existing cover with other insurers against comparable cover from Norwich Union.
In the savings market we are giving customers a fairer deal with a new pricing system for annuities which uses postcodes to reflect their lifestyles and circumstances more accurately.
In the Asia Pacific region, where both incomes and life expectancy are on the rise, people are also looking for safe savings opportunities.
Our new joint venture in South Korea takes us into the second largest life insurance market in Asia.
To stay ahead in growth markets, we must be inventive.
Bancassurance, which offers people the convenience of buying insurance at local bank branches, is one of the foundations of our business in western Europe.
Were now successfully introducing the concept of bancassurance to customers across eastern Europe and the Far East.
Today we have more than 90 bancassurance partnerships around the world, generating nearly one quarter of Aviva's long-term savings sales.
This mix of activities is one of the key drivers of our success.
We see life insurance, general insurance and asset management as complementary parts of a business that can balance cash flow, returns and long-term value for our shareholders, while bringing prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
Making our business more transparent We have always been committed to improving the transparency of our business and so we became one of the early adopters of a new way of reporting in 2008 Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV.
MCEV aims to improve transparency and comparability in embedded value reporting across Europe.
We believe that it gives useful insight into the financial performance of the groups life and related businesses.
You can read more about MCEV reporting and how it affects our results on pages 286-327.
Building a more efficient organisation One Aviva, twice the valuealso means a leaner, more efficient organisation.
One of the benefits of being a truly global organisation is that we can simplify systems, share services and IT, and streamline the running of all our businesses.
In 2007 we announced a total cost reduction programme of 500 million.
The UK life business is on track to deliver 100 million of savings by the end of 2009.
In the UK general insurance business, we have Our customers are at the heart of what we do, we understand that they want to completed the first phase to deliver cost savings of 200 million in 2008. be recognised and treated as individuals.
Phase two of the transformation, announced in June 2008, is the creation By really getting to know our customers of nine modern customer facing centres of insurance expertise to deliver we are able to offer them the service and consistent first-class service.
This, and associated initiatives, will deliver products that they want.
In this way we an extra 150 million in savings a year by the end of 2010.
A further can provide the best possible experience 50 million cost savings will come from our European businesses.
and earn their long-term loyalty.
We are also simplifying our legacy systems.
In 2007, we announced a deal with Swiss Re to outsource the administration of nearly three million Norwich Union Life policies.
This has already allowed us to decommission over 200 systems, and improve our service both to IFAs and policyholders.
However, cutting costs is not without impact, sadly and most notably on our people.
There have been some redundancies this year, but these decisions have been made to ensure the ongoing development of the business.
Aviva plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group chief executives perspective continued What have we achieved?
22 27 More on our group performance l Highlights of the year 36 69 More on our regional performance l Delivered life and pension new business sales ahead of analyst expectations with a second consecutive record year in the UK Improved our Financial Adviser Service awards rating to four stars in UK life and pensions business Achieved target of doubling sales in our US life business a year ahead of plan Worldwide general insurance combined operating ratio improved to 98% 2007: 100% Voted General Insurer of the Year in the UK at the Insurance Times Awards for the sixth year running RAC was voted by JD Power as the best Roadside Assistance provider in the UK for the third year running Won Life Company of the Year at the AFA Plan for Life awards in Australia Maintained our number one ranking in both fixed indexed annuities and fixed indexed life insurance markets in the US Life business Completed the acquisition of VIVAS Health in Ireland.
Signed new bancassurance deals in Spain, Poland, Turkey and Italy.
Maintained good growth in China with a 66% increase following significant expansion of our distribution network Expanded our distribution footprint through new joint ventures in South Korea and Taiwan coming on-line Successfully launched Aviva Investors, our global asset management business Maintained a strong capital and liquidity position.
IGD surplus of 2.0 billion and direct access to 1.4 billion of liquid assets with further 2.1 billion of undrawn committed credit facilities Embarked on the global rebranding programme with Norwich Union to become Aviva in 2009.
Poland and Ireland to complete rebrand in 2010 Early adoption of market consistent embedded value MCEV methodology for our long-term savings business Overview 01 11 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Remember whose money it is 3,358m MCEV operating profit before tax Turbulent financial markets have had an impact on our profit before tax but operating profit, over which we have more direct control, is 10% up on 2007.
2.0bn IGD solvency surplus Aviva has a strong capital position.
Insurers are required to Were here to bring prosperity and peace hold a financial buffer over and above statutory solvency levels, of mind to our customers prosperity with known as the capital resource requirement.
The IGD surplus is the our life, savings and asset management amount of capital held in addition to this regulatory requirement.
business, peace of mind through the security general insurance cover brings.
50m Number of customers Despite the tough economic climate in 2008 our overall customer base has grown.
In Asia Pacific we launched joint ventures in South Korea and Taiwan and we expanded our distribution network in China.
Weve also seen an increase in customers in central and eastern Europe where our businesses have performed well.
p 33.00 Dividend per share In an environment of low interest rates, dividends are important to shareholders.
Weve maintained our dividend in line with 2007 while balancing the requirements of our investors and the need to maintain capital to develop the business.
51.4bn Worldwide sales Sales were up in 2008 with growth in both life and pensions sales and general insurance and health net written premiums.
This was offset by lower sales of investment products reflecting the volatility experienced in financial markets during the year.
p 486 Net asset value per share NAV is one of the key ratios analysts use for measuring the value of a company and contrasts with our share price which closed at 390p on 31 December.
Aviva plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group chief executives perspective continued Whats next?
18 19 More on our strategy l 32 35 More on managing risk l I want to be more than just a target market Customers more now than ever want peace of mind in these uncertain times.
They have genuine concerns and will need help and support.
Despite the difficult economic conditions we are confident that our strategy places us in good shape for the future, with opportunities in many of our markets.
Economic outlook We moved into 2009 in the midst of a recession.
Industrial production and corporate profits are falling sharply and unemployment rising equally fast.
Economic growth is expected to be extremely poor in 2009 but is likely to recover in 2010 led by the US and China.
From start to finish the recession is likely to cut western GDP by at least 4%.
Looking out beyond 2009, with no return to normal lending and a sustained rise in savings, we expect economic growth to be very subdued over the next cycle.
Whats next for our markets?
Looking ahead we expect the UK and European markets to remain subdued in 2009.
In North America, sales of indexed annuity products will not grow as fast as they did in 2008, but this is set against very strong growth over the past two years.
In the Asia Pacific markets we anticipate steady growth in the major economies, although investors are likely to be more cautious.
We do expect to see growth returning to our bancassurance business as the banks concentrate on their retail operations and bancassurance becomes even more important to them.
At a time when some banks are facing huge difficulties, we continue to do business in this area.
Overview 01 11 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Our strategy Although the outlook is challenging, our strategic objectives remain clear and relevant.
Some of these objectives have already been met.
North America is a great example where we have already reached our target a year ahead of schedule.
In these areas well be setting new and challenging targets for the year to come.
In the current economic climate, performing in line with the market is a realistic aim.
Our priority will be to maintain our capital strength by making the most efficient and profitable investment choices.
By doing this we expect to emerge from the current climate even stronger.
Well place less emphasis over the coming year on top-line sales targets, though we will maintain a strong presence in each of our markets.
In our general insurance business we remain committed to meeting or beating our target of 98% COR for the group.
We are confident that by adhering to our strategy and our vision to create one Aviva, twice the value, we have the greatest opportunity It is not surprising that in difficult times for success in the present climate.
customers can be neglected and forgotten.
Were taking great care to stay in touch with all our customers and partners as we become Aviva around the world and to remind them how central they are to the continued success of our business.
Dont forget me Business review 12 81 Business review Recognise me for who I am
