Aviva plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group chief executives review Andrew Moss Group chief executive Dear Shareholder, Financial results Last year I outlined our vision to unlock value and drive growth We have reported our results for the first time on a market from our existing business one Aviva, twice the value.
consistent embedded value MCEV basis.
MCEV is an improvement Events in 2008 have certainly made it harder to achieve our medium in many ways on European embedded value EEV reporting, term objectives but we remain 100% committed to their delivery.
which we have previously used, and Aviva is one of the first to adopt Im confident that we can deliver our vision for our customers, this basis in the UK.
It leads to a more conservative view of our our shareholders and our people.
business which is appropriate in the current economic environment.
When times are tough people want to protect what they have.
As a global group with 63% of our total sales coming from They look for reassurance from brands they can trust and our long outside the UK we have benefited from currency movements experience of managing risk gives Aviva the strength and stability in the year, mainly the appreciation of the euro and US dollar.
However, our results also reflect the impact of the financial volatility In a challenging year, the most difficult that I or any of my that weve seen in 2008.
On an IFRS basis shareholder funds have colleagues have had to encounter, weve remained true fallen to 11,052 million 2007: 12,946 million.
However, to our core purpose of bringing prosperity and peace of mind using the MCEV methodology, the impact of market movements to our customers.
We are not immune to the financial crisis, is significantly greater and shareholder funds are reduced to but we are confident that we have the right strategy for a successful 12,912 million 2007 restated: 19,998 million.
Im pleased to report that this is reflected in sound trading of this reduction in shareholders funds is due to prudent marking performance, with growth in both our life and pensions and general to market of our assets rather than realised cash losses.
In addition we have undertaken a thorough recover, as they will to some degree, at some point, our shareholders review of the value of our assets and liabilities and provided funds will also increase.
prudently for possible future losses so that we can withstand On an IFRS basis, the group operating profit before tax was future volatility and uncertainty.
2,297 million 2007 restated: 2,216 million and total IFRS return Today were the fifth-largest insurance group in the world.
was a loss of 885 million 2007 restated: 1,498 million profit We have over 50 million customers, 54,000 employees, global sales which again reflected the significant impact of investment market of 51.4 billion and 381 billion of funds under management.
This resulted in IFRS earnings per share being a loss of 36.8 pence 2007 restated: 48.9 pence profit.
Meanwhile our underlying business has shown great resilience.
Pre-tax operating profit on an MCEV basis was 3,358 million 2007 restated: 3,065 million with strong results in both our long-term savings and general insurance business lines.
Return on equity shareholders funds on an MCEV basis was 11.0% 2007: 10.4% and the net asset value of the group at 31 December was 486 pence 31 December 2007: 763 pence.
Purpose Prosperity and peace of mind A strategy to deliver our vision Vision One Aviva, twice the value The Aviva triangle has been developed to explain the purpose, vision, strategy and regional performance Strategic Targets of the group.
Our strategic priorities are: priorities l 18 l 20 Manage composite portfolio Aviva Investors Build global asset management 36 l Allocate capital rigorously UK Europe North Asia Increase customer reach America Pacific l 42 l 50 l 58 l 64 Boost productivity Overview 01 11 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 03 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The enormous financial volatility of 2008 has led to a reduction Delivering for our customers in the capital that we hold in excess of regulatory requirements.
Our purpose is to provide prosperity and peace of mind to our We remain in a strong position with an IGD capital surplus of 50 million customers around the world.
I am pleased with the 2.0 billion at the end of 2008.
Maintaining this capital strength progress we are making towards measuring customer advocacy has been a priority in 2008 and will remain so in 2009. across our group.
It will help us measure and improve customer experience and build customer loyalty.
Currently over two thirds Maintaining our dividend of our businesses are at or better than the external benchmark Our group dividend policy remains unchanged.
With savings rates and we aim to be world-class.
In the end the number of customers at a record low, this is good news for our shareholders as well as that stay with us and recommend us to others is the ultimate a mark of our financial strength.
Our recommended final ordinary measure of our success.
It has been pleasing to see the strong dividend is 19.91 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for growth in our customer numbers, particularly in China and central the year to 33.00 pence, unchanged from 2007. and eastern Europe.
When I talk to customers, I am always struck how good Strength of our business it is when we are delivering first class service.
Our challenge is to do this consistently, day in, day out and this is what we aim In 2008 we benefited more than ever from the diversity of our to deliver through our new brand promise.
business model, as the spread of our businesses and geographical reach helped to mitigate risk.
Building the Aviva brand Despite the downturn, we achieved our highest ever life and pensions sales in our UK Life market.
In the United States we Through the year weve moved several steps closer to our goal met our target of doubling new business sales, a year earlier than of a global brand.
We already operate as Aviva in 21 markets and expected.
In our general insurance business, profits improved by June 2009, Norwich Union will have been renamed as Aviva.
despite continuing tough market conditions and our focus now Hibernian in Ireland and Commercial Union in Poland move fully is on sustainable profitability rather than volumes.
You can read more about our brand In the Asia Pacific markets we saw life and pensions business on page 16. growing on the back of our Chinese joint venture and our new ventures in South Korea and Taiwan.
Some European markets Pride in our people suffered in 2008 but we performed well in central and eastern If our 54,000 people around the world feel valued and that their Europe.
With over 65% of sales coming from outside the UK, contribution matters, they will in turn provide excellent service for our weve also benefited from currency movements such as the customers.
Im particularly pleased that in this difficult year, our global appreciation of the euro.
employee climate survey shows improvements in almost every area In September we launched Aviva Investors, pooling our of activity.
Our staff have weathered an unsettling year with enormous asset management skills into a single company.
With 236 billion professionalism and dedication, and I am grateful to them.
currently under management, working in 15 countries around We want this to be a great organisation to work for, and I believe the world, we fully expect to see Aviva Investors become a that our people show all the signs of being proud to belong to powerhouse in global investment.
the global family that is Aviva.
As a result of our cost cutting exercise, there were some redundancies in 2008: a difficult decision, Managing our risk but necessary to ensure the future development of the business.
Sound risk management has always been at the heart of our In 2008, I appointed the final members of my leadership team.
This discipline has served us well in 2008.
I now have the support of a ten strong executive team: talented and Whether its financial risk as a result of changes in the values dedicated individuals who are working together to achieve our vision.
of our investments and insurance liability or credit risk from our As a company, we take our obligations to the world around us investment in bonds and other securities, we are monitoring and seriously.
Were a leader in the field of corporate responsibility and managing our risk continuously.
many of our people play an active part in the communities in which There are many examples of our prudent approach to risk.
In 2008 we continued to be recognised by a wide range Expectations of credit default increased dramatically in 2008 and of external benchmarks for the work we do across a range of activities.
within our UK annuity company we have made provisions at a level which assumes credit default will be worse than at any time Committed to our vision in modern business history, worse even than the 1930s.
We have We remain committed to our vision of one Aviva, twice the value.
experienced some credit default losses during the year, but these It has given us the focus to remain on course during one of the have been acceptable within the overall scale of our business.
most difficult years in financial memory.
Providing prosperity and Back in 2007 we made a sound decision to manage our peace of mind for our customers is a long term enterprise.
This long equity risk when we sold 3.4 billion of equities and weve also term view of our business has meant that weve managed our taken steps to safeguard ourselves against further falls in equity resources carefully and avoided excessive risk.
That gives me real markets through the derivatives markets.
confidence as I look to the future.
Financial volatility has also meant that we have had to reassess the policyholder and shareholder elements of the In the following pages youll find more about the general reattribution of the inherited estate in the UK to ensure fairness trading conditions and our business activities over the last between shareholders and policyholders.
This negotiation year, plus our plans for the year ahead.
I hope youll take continues in a constructive way.
Andrew Moss Group chief executive
