C14170 Barclays B 001-014. qxp:B File 01 6 3 09 01:24 Page 12 Group Chief Executives review I reported in our interim results that the conditions in the market in the which has increased from 39 million to 48 million: in the increase in our preceding 12 months were as difficult as any that we had experienced lending volumes, particularly in UK mortgages, where our net lending in many years.
In the six months since, we have seen the bankruptcy of mortgage market share was 36%, in the Group as a whole where our loans Lehman Brothers, substantial action taken by the UK and other and advances increased 32% to 510bn: and in sharply increased activity governments, and a progressive deterioration in the consensus levels in Barclays Capital in interest rates, currency products and commodities.
expectations for global economic prospects.
The environment has been Managing our risks through the unfolding crisis has been a significant extraordinarily challenging for nearly two years, and remains so.
In this Annual Report we have set out extensive We have managed Barclays carefully through this period.
We have details on the nature and quality of our loans and advances, as well as remained solidly profitable.
Although the 2008 profit before tax of 6.1bn further detail on our credit market assets.
We have worked hard to reduce a includes several individually significant and one-off items, our performance these during the year.
9.4bn of our exposures were sold or redeemed during the year has mainly been driven by ongoing business.
Where we and, in addition, we have announced a total of 8.1bn in gross writehave had the opportunity to generate non-recurring profits, we have done downs of these assets.
Managing these exposures will continue to be a so, including a gain on the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American priority in 2009.
We are confident of the valuations of these assets at the businesses, a gain on the acquisition of the Goldfish credit card business in year end: whilst we expect there will be further charges as we work down the UK, gains on selling the UK Closed Life Fund and from the Visa IPO and these assets, we also expect that gross write-downs in 2009 will be lower sale of MasterCard shares.
These items, combined with record income than the levels of 2008. generation across the Group, have enabled us to absorb substantial writeIn progressing strategy in 2008, we have announced a number of downs on our credit market assets and still post substantial profits.
acquisitions Lehman Brothers North American businesses, Goldfish in But our shareholders have suffered a lot.
Although we cannot control the UK, Expobank in Russia, Akita Bank in Indonesia and we also the price at which our shares trade in the market, we greatly regret the fact launched or expanded banking platforms in Pakistan and India.
These that the total return on our shares during 2008 has been heavily negative, steps will, we believe, have a significant collective impact in the future.
We and we acknowledge with regret, also, our decision not to recommend the have also, of course, raised large amounts of new equity and other capital, payment of a final dividend for 2008, which is one of the consequences of increasing our shareholders equity by almost 50% during the year.
the increased capital requirements introduced by the UK Financial As we look forward to 2009 it is clear that the economic and business Services Authority in October.
environment will remain very difficult, and the quality of our assets and These facts have influenced significantly our compensation decisions risk management capability will again be tested.
The scale of our market in respect of 2008.
This has resulted in the incentive payments across presence in the geographies where we do business means that we will Barclays being significantly lower in 2008 than in 2007: in the application not avoid the consequences of severe downturn.
Although we have been of high differentiation in incentive pools, based both on business and careful over recent years to avoid inappropriate risk concentration in our individual performance: and in our delivering a significant proportion of major loan books in retail and commercial banking, our plans for 2009 compensation for the most senior individuals across Barclays over multiple assume that impairment will continue to be at a high level.
Executive Directors will receive no bonuses for 2008.
For 2009 and beyond, we are reviewing our compensation policies and practices to 2009 Strategic Framework ensure that they evolve appropriately.
Our endeavour as we do this is to Our framework for moving the strategy forward in 2009 has the maximise the alignment between these and the interests of our owners, following features: as well as to ensure that our compensation policies and practices are Responsible corporate citizenship.
Governments in the UK and appropriately benchmarked to changing best practice in the industry.
elsewhere have taken significant steps to address the impacts of the Our priorities in 2008 were and remain : to stay close to customers financial crisis and recession, and we must work with the authorities and clients: to manage our risks: and to progress strategy.
and, of course, with our customers, to deal with the crisis in a way which is consistent with our obligations to shareholders.
2008 Priorities Our approach of staying close to customers and clients is shown in the We have committed to recommencing dividend payments during the number of customers we serve in Global Retail and Commercial Banking, second half of 2009.
Thereafter, and as previously announced, dividend Note a Includes redemption of 3.1bn leveraged finance exposure in January 2009.
Barclays India launches an innovative mobile banking service We have committed to BGI iShares attracted a record US$89bn in net lend an additional 1.5bn in 2009 to our SME customers.
"1.5bn $89bn 53 28' 56""N 37 47' 17""N 28 38' 07""N Manchester, UK 12pm GMT San Francisco 4am PST New Delhi 5.30pm IST | 12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www."
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 001-014. qxp:B File 01 6 3 09 01:24 Page 13 1 payments will be made on a quarterly basis.
We will set out our dividend Outlook policy at the Annual General Meeting in April.
We expect 2009 to be another challenging year with continuing downturns or recessions in many of the economies in which we are represented.
In We must ensure that our capital position is robust and our balance sheet 2008 our profits were reduced by the impacts of substantial gross credit well-managed.
We set out within the Financial Review our approach to market losses.
In 2009, we expect the impact of such credit market losses managing leverage in the balance sheet, and our expectations for capital to be lower.
Whilst we are confident in the relative quality of our major ratios.
For 2009, returns will rank ahead of growth.
books of assets, we also expect the recessionary environments in the UK, To create good returns at this time, we must preserve strategic and Spain, South Africa and the US to increase the loan loss rates on our operational choice.
As conditions remain very difficult in 2009, we loans and advances.
expect that there will be considerable value at stake for our shareholders Governments in the UK and elsewhere have taken significant in decisions that we take relating to resource utilisation, capital allocation measures to assist borrowers and lenders in response to the emerging and risk management.
Our objective over time is to ensure that the cost recession, including reducing official interest rates.
The low interest rate of the capital we raised last November is covered many times over by environment will have the impact of substantially reducing the spread the benefits of pursuing our strategy.
generated on our retail and commercial banking deposits, particularly in the UK, but we expect the combined impact of these government We must deliver solid profitability notwithstanding the global downturn.
measures to be positive for the economy in time.
Our diversified income streams have served us well in recent years and have enabled us to absorb substantial costs from the financial crisis.
2009 Trading We expect them to continue to do so.
Customer and client activity levels were high in the first month of 2009, We will seek to manage the composition of our profits, and capital and we have had a good start to the year.
In particular, the operating allocation, to ensure that we optimise returns from our universal performance of Barclays Capital, benefiting from the now complete banking business model.
It is clear to us that integration of the Lehman Brothers North American businesses, was in the future there will be more capital in the banking system, and less extremely strong.
The trends that lie behind the strong operating leverage, particularly in capital markets businesses.
This will be true performance in Global Retail and Commercial Banking in 2008 were at Barclays too, and will govern our approach to capital allocation and again observable in its performance in January.
We expect to see balance sheet utilisation by Barclays Capital fall over time, which will help us to deliver strengthening returns.
Conclusion We believe that the businesses that we have built from the integration I end this review by recording the Boards appreciation of the dedication of Lehman Brothers North American businesses and Barclays Capital and hard work of our 150,000 people.
We are doing more business with will help in this regard, since the capital intensity of the advisory more customers and clients than at any time in our history, and have businesses in M&A and of the flow businesses in fixed income, generated substantial profits.
That we have been able to do this reflects currencies, equities and credit will be lower, once we have managed the continuing focus of Barclays employees on delivering high-quality down our credit market exposures.
service to clients and customers despite the difficult conditions of the year.
Goals We set out last year our goals for economic profit for 2008 through 2011.
Those were based on, amongst other things, the then regulatory capital requirements for the business and the then cost of equity.
The regulatory capital requirements were significantly increased last year by the UK Financial Services Authority.
The observed cost of equity has also increased.
It is right, therefore, that we revisit our goals, to ensure that they are properly aligned with our new return and balance sheet objectives, and with the interests of our owners.
We intend to publish revised goals in due John Varley course that reflect the changes to the environment in the past two years.
Group Chief Executive Our performance reflects the continuing focus of Barclays employees on delivering high-quality service to clients and customers despite the difficult conditions of the year.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 13 C14170 Barclays B 001-014. qxp:B File 01 6 3 09 01:24 Page 14 | 14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
