BlueBay Asset Management plc Chief Executives 08 Annual Report 2008 Review 2008 Another year of growth 2008 results from 33% to 39% and the proportion of 2008 was a challenging but ultimately Our product focus and the strength of our total revenues represented by management satisfactory year for BlueBay.
The start of the infrastructure together drove the increase in rather than performance fees increasing from Groups financial year in July 2007 coincided AuM experienced over the course of the year.
with the onset of what has arguably become In a period in which many managers saw net the most comprehensive credit market crisis outflows and in which significant net inflows Awards that the world has seen since the 1930s.
were rare, the Groups performance in While investment performance for the Group This gave rise to an extremely demanding attracting $7.1 billion of net inflows well was less strong than in the previous year, this backdrop for a specialist credit manager to over 50% of assets at the start of the period was of course the case for most, if not all, operate against.
It is a tribute to the strength was exceptional.
Reflecting the relative managers operating in fixed income credit of BlueBays brand and the calibre of its scalability of the products concerned, the markets.
The relative performance of the people that, despite such a backdrop, the bulk of this came in the Groups long-only Groups funds was recognised by a string of Group achieved record AuM growth up 60% funds: where AuM almost doubled to industry awards: including the Global Investor to $21.0 billion over the course of the year: $15.1 billion.
Respectable growth was also, Award For Investment Excellence 2007: together with pre-tax profits only marginally however, seen in the long short funds: with Emerging Market Fixed Income House of lower than those of the previous year down AuM up 14% to $5.8 billion.
the Year: and the Specialist and Alternative 4% at 49.7 million.
Investment Manager Awards 2007: Eurozone Investment performance was less strong than Fixed Income Manager of the year NonGroup strategy in the previous year: reflecting difficult Government.
We are also particularly proud The Groups strategy continues to be to market conditions.
The Groups long short to have been awarded, just after the financial position itself as a leading, specialist manager funds returned a negative 3.4% for the year, year end, Fixed Income Manager of the Year of European corporate and global emerging net of fees: while long-only performance at the 2008 European Pensions Awards.
In doing so, we are riding was mixed.
On the one hand, our flagship latter award, adjudged by our core client two particularly strong, medium-term growth long-only investment grade and high yield base, demonstrated eloquently the progress trends in global fixed income markets: the corporate bond funds delivered outstanding that BlueBay has made since being founded birth and growth of European corporate returns: out-performing their indices by 4.1% only seven years ago.
credit as a major new global asset class: and 7.7% respectively and ranking number and secular growth in institutional investor one or two in their universes over one, three New products appetite for emerging market debt.
and five-year time periods or since fund While the Groups product strategy is highly inception.
On the other, our flagship focused, it continues to develop new Alongside this clear product focus, the Group emerging market long-only funds performed products within its fields of expertise.
Our continues to invest in its infrastructure.
We less well: under-performing their indices, but fastest growing new fund during the year believe that modern institutional investors in all cases nevertheless delivering positive was the BlueBay Multi-Strategy Fund: a have a strong preference for employing asset absolute returns for the period.
long short offering launched in April 2007. managers able to deliver state-of-the-art This fund, which moves BlueBay into the systems, process, compliance and risk While lower performance fees resulted in fast-growing multi strategy space, had management: alongside strong investment lower overall operating margins for the reached over $1.7 billion in assets by year performance.
It remains our mission statement business than in the previous year, the end and has already attained flagship status to combine the infrastructure of a mainstream Groups core operating margins continued within the Groups product range.
Other asset manager with the investment mindset of to improve as a function of growing notable product launches included a floating a boutique.
management fee revenues and the increasing rate version of BlueBays highly successful benefits of scale: with both non-performance investment grade corporate bond fund and The Groups resilience in the face of related compensation and non-compensation a new fund in the nascent but promising area unprecedented market disruption over the costs falling as a percentage of management of emerging market corporate debt: both in course of the year has reinforced further our fees earned.
This allowed pre-tax profits long-only format.
belief that our strategy is appropriate and and diluted earnings per share to hold only strong.
It remains, as a result, unchanged.
slightly below the previous years levels: at 49.7 million and 16.9 pence respectively.
It is also encouraging to note that the Groups quality of income continued to improve: with the proportion of overall management fees deriving from long-only products rising again Hugh Willis Record AuM growth over Chief Executives the course of the year.
Review 09 BlueBay Asset Management plc Chief Executives 10 Annual Report 2008 Review Outlook While we do not underestimate the challenges A thank you As previously noted, the start of our 2008 that continue to lie ahead, we are optimistic Any asset management firm is dependent financial year coincided with the onset of the that this is an environment in which BlueBay upon its people for its success and BlueBay credit crisis currently underway.
At the time of should thrive.
The strength of the Groups is fortunate to have an exceptional group of our last Annual Report, we expressed concern distribution and the relative resilience of its employees.
Strongly aligned with the Groups at the environment developing and expected fund performance during the credit crisis to investors BlueBay employees own almost that difficult market conditions might last for date have been reassuring.
We have seen a 60% of the firm and have more than some time.
What began as a liquidity crisis further $1.9 billion of net inflows during the $100 million of their own money invested in with problems residing principally on the first two months July and August of the BlueBay funds, it is their skill and dedication balance sheets of lenders has now morphed new financial year and the Groups long short upon which we rely for our success.
I would into a fully fledged credit crunch with the funds registering only marginally negative therefore like to thank all BlueBays people damage spreading both to the balance returns in the period, against a backdrop of for their outstanding efforts over the course sheets of borrowers and to the real economy heavy losses for the industry as a whole.
For of a very demanding year.
At the heart of the matter has been the full financial year 2009, we expect total a massive contraction in the availability of net inflows to be similar to those seen in the and the increase in price of credit: as the financial year just ended and that they will all financial system fide-leverages and seeks to be in long-only products.
With the Groups Hugh Willis work through the lending excesses of the past secular product drivers of European corporate Chief Executive few years.
It seems likely that this process of credit and global emerging markets debt catharsis will last into calendar year 2009. remaining firmly in place, an overlay of cyclical investor interest in and demand Having said this, considerable value has been for credit seems likely to be added at some and is being generated in fixed income credit stage during this financial year.
This promises markets as these events unfold: and it seems to create, at the appropriate point, a very highly likely that credit investors who have interesting environment for both asset raising successfully navigated the downturn will, and fund performance and one that should at some stage over the next six to 12 months, once in train last for some time.
be rewarded by the best investment conditions seen in the asset class in a very long time.
At the trough of previous credit cycles, we The strength of our specialist investment have seen investors enjoy a two to three expertise, the quality of our infrastructure and year period in which equity style returns risk management capabilities, and the power are on offer for the assumption of credit risk: of our brand in the credit markets means and where excellent risk adjusted returns that BlueBay is well positioned to manage characterise the credit spectrum from the current market conditions and to take investment grade through to distressed debt.
advantage of the investment opportunities We expect this time will be no different and that these conditions will present.
the winning managers will be those that emerge from that trough point with the right products and a strong investor following.
A thank you I would like to thank all BlueBays people for their outstanding efforts over the course of a very demanding year.
