04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Outperformance of diluted NAV per share Chief Executives against the FTSE All-Share index over the year report 6.3% Invested in the year, including 48m in new opportunities 204m This time last year we expressed a cautious stance to investment, Diluted NAV per share to FTSE All-Share outperformance and the last 12 months have shown this to be right.
We have seen years ended at 31 March considerable turbulence in the markets and major falls in many 11.4% asset values.
Over the 12 months ended 31 March 2008, the FTSE All-Share index fell by 10.9%.
Against this backdrop the much smaller 9.5% 9.2% fall in our own diluted net asset value NAV per share of 4.6%, although disappointing in absolute terms, nonetheless represented 6.3% outperformance of 6.3% against the FTSE All-Share index and has demonstrated the resilience of our business model in these conditions.
Our aim is to ensure that over rolling five year periods our total 2.8% shareholder return consistently outperforms the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, as well as producing positive absolute returns.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 To achieve that aim, we put our efforts into ensuring that our NAV per share consistently outperforms the FTSE All-Share index over Significant changes in value the medium term.
Although we cannot always expect in the shorter The falls in market prices of equities in the financial and property term period of one year to meet this objective, nonetheless it should sectors have been particularly severe and, over the 12 months, be noted that for each of the last five years since we converted the FTSE Financial sector as a whole fell by 23.6%, while the Real to investment trust status and have been measuring NAV on a Estate sector fell by 35.3%.
Not surprisingly, the values of a number consistent basis our NAV per share has outperformed the FTSE of our investments in these sectors also fell.
All-Share index as demonstrated in the charts below.
These indicate Our investment in Close Brothers fell in value by over 70m.
In that our long term approach to investment is working to produce the short term its business was adversely affected by the unwelcome for our shareholders the results to which we aspire, and has been threat of a hostile bid which never materialised by the much smaller delivering in both upturns and downturns in the market.
Nonetheless, we believe Close Brothers is now particularly well positioned for present market conditions and we Diluted NAV per share over five years Diluted NAV per share have in fact taken advantage of the low share price to invest a further FTSE All-Share rebased 7.3m during March 2008 as we believe there should be significant p potential for value creation over the medium term.
2400 Our investment in Quintain Estates produced the other substantial fall in value with a diminution of 53.4m.
Its share price 2000 fall over the year was also accentuated by the confirmation from an 1600 unwelcome bidder that its potential offer would not proceed.
Notwithstanding the malaise in the property sector, we consider 1200 Quintain Estates, with its relatively low level of debt and special development situations in Wembley and Greenwich, also to be well 800 positioned for value creation over the longer term.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Other significant falls in value within these sectors included Our business philosophy, which centres around being Polar Capital down 16.9m, Terrace Hill down 12.6m and Rathbone Brothers down 12.0m.
In all cases we believe these a long term supportive and constructively involved shareholder, does mean that we do not normally liquidate our shareholdings to be well run, strong companies, and are confident that they will in good companies just because of anticipated downturns in the show good gains in value over the medium term.
Instead, during the last financial year and in order Substantially offsetting the various falls in value have been to provide some downside protection of the value of our portfolio a number of notable gains in value including: in a falling market, we invested, through a subsidiary, a total of 12m Oval 27.2m gain, our unquoted UK insurance broking in FTSE 250 put options.
The value of these put options had of course investment, which has been successfully acquiring and substantially grown by the end of the period as a result of both consolidating smaller broking businesses and thereby falls in the index and increased volatility and this increase of 7.6m significantly increasing profitability.
pre-tax has helped in part to offset the falls in value of some of our investments.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 05 Another year of busy activity, particularly in our active and constructive involvement with investee companies.
Tim Ingram Chief Executive TGE Marine 15.5m gain, our formerly unquoted marine gas Costs engineering investment headquartered in Bonn, which is enjoying We continued to keep a tight rein on costs, believing that every strong revenue and profitability growth.
Since our financial year pound spent is a pound less of our shareholders net assets.
Although end, this business has listed on the AIM market leading to further our investment style is considerably more hands-on than most substantial value gains.
investment trusts, it is our continuing aim to contain our pre-tax total expense ratio TER around the 1% level, and to keep it significantly Bristow Group 16.2m gain, the US quoted helicopter operating below the average for the investment trust industry as a whole.
company, which is benefiting from the buoyant conditions in the Our pre-tax TER for the year was 1.0%, which is significantly oil and gas industry.
below the pre-tax weighted investment trust industry average of Cobepa 12.1m gain, the unquoted Brussels based private equity 1.4%.
Moreover, given that our expenses contain all performance investment company.
payments to executives, including bonus and share-based payments, this compares very favourably indeed with the private equity Marketform 10.5m gain, where we realised our investment industry, which also involves a hands-on investment style, but in this UK unquoted insurance company through a trade sale.
which industry is much shorter term than Caledonia and one where Investment activity investors typically have to pay fees of both 2% per annum of assets The year was another one of busy activity.
Our Investment managed and 20% of the gains made.
Committee analysed 104 new investment opportunities which compares with 130 the previous year but, as a result of our cautious Outlook stance, only made five new investments totalling 48m versus 14 The immediate economic outlook is not encouraging.
In the US, totalling 128m in the previous year.
We were however more active consumer debt, including mortgages, has increased over the last in follow-on situations where we have been able to benefit from falls seven years from around 65% of annual GDP to 94% it is a similar in market prices providing good buying opportunities in businesses picture in the UK with the ratio increasing from 70% to just over 100%.
We thus invested a further 144m in follow-on The UK economy is now starting to feel the adverse effects of this business investments and, as mentioned above, 12m in FTSE 250 excessive binge-borrowing.
However, put options, making a total investment of 204m considerably we believe we are well positioned through being invested and lower than the 290m we had invested in the previous year.
involved in sound businesses that we understand well and where More information on investments is given in the business usually we have board participation.
It is worth noting that as at 31 March 2008 the As the economic situation further unfolds, we expect a number total value of our Indian investments including two UK quoted of particularly good investment opportunities to arise and may well entities that focus exclusively on India was 88m, representing 7.0% put in place term bank facilities for up to 100m.
of shareholders funds up from 5.4% at the previous year end, and reflecting both further investment and growth in value.
Much effort is spent on being actively and constructively involved with the managements of our investee companies to help create long term value.
It is our normal policy for Caledonia Tim Ingram executives to join the board of an investee company where we have Chief Executive a significant stake and at the year end we had our executives on the boards of 26 of our top 30 investments.
Realisations totalled 114m, substantially down on the 317m realised during the previous year.
The largest was the sale for 21m of our 27% stake in Marketform, an unquoted insurance company, which represented a 100% uplift in the value of this investment as at 31 March 2007.
More information on realisations is given on page 13 in the business review.
During the year, we purchased into treasury 277,229 of our shares at a total cost of 5.6m.
We started the year with around 109m of liquidity.
Essentially as a result of the above activity this reduced to about 24m at 31 March 2008.
