Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 12 12 Joint Chairman and Chief Executives Statement 2008 was challenging in the extreme.
Our underwriting proved robust and contributed 33 million profit.
However, because of investment losses caused by turmoil in the financial markets, the Group reported a loss, our first since 2001.
Nevertheless, Chaucer is an excellent business and remains well placed for 2009 and beyond.
This has been a challenging period for the insurance industry, Investment performance was poor, with our 1.2bn cash and with record losses worldwide and unprecedented levels of investment portfolio losing 71m in the year.
Equity and hedge financial turmoil, which have hit both investment returns and fund holdings lost significant value in the final months of 2008 as underwriting alike.
While these have affected our 2008 results, fears of a global financial collapse and world recession triggered a we believe the outlook for the business is very positive following flight to safety among investors.
We have taken significant steps to steps taken to strengthen our capital position and to fide-risk our fide-risk the portfolio, exiting equities and absolute return bond investment portfolio substantially.
funds and submitting redemptions for all our remaining hedge fund investments.
The sale of absolute return bond funds produced We have raised 75m after expenses of new capital to good profits in January 2009 and the overall return on investments strengthen the balance sheet and to support the growth of the for that month was 15.3m.
The funds will immediately go to work and we intend portfolio, we are unlikely to generate a similar level of returns in to increase the underwriting capacity of Syndicate 1084 to at future months.
We have reinvested the proceeds in cash and least 545m for 2009 from our initial plan of 480m.
like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders for their The underwriting outlook for Chaucer is very positive support.
We expect rates to continue their rise throughout 2009 and We paid a second interim dividend of 3.7p on 13 March 2009, 2010 as capital losses and reduced investment income take giving a total dividend of 5.5p per share for 2008, an increase of their toll, causing the industry to focus even more closely on 10% on the total dividend of 5.0p paid for 2007.
We anticipate gross underwriting profit.
Less capital generally means less that, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, we will competition for underwriting and higher rates.
The credit declare a total dividend of no less than 4.0p per share for each crunch has taken a significant bite probably around of 2009 and 2010.
US$100bn out of the investments held by insurers, and the As previously announced, Chaucer has received a number of further loss of capital caused by major insured losses should take-over approaches.
All of the approaches received are reinforce the rise in prices.
In addition, Lloyds should also subject to due diligence and pre-conditions and it will take time benefit from increased business this year as clients, having to ascertain whether an offer for the business may be witnessed the troubles of major insurers, place their risks forthcoming.
We continue to hold discussions with interested across a larger number of carriers.
parties with a view to maximising value for shareholders.
Looking further ahead, we remain confident of our ability to 2008 was a difficult year grow the business profitably as the market hardens toward There is no disguising the fact that our 2008 results are 2011.
We will benefit from our underwriter recruitment unsatisfactory: investment losses arising following the turmoil in programme that is now largely completed, which aims to the financial markets in September and October, in particular, have provide us with the depth of underwriting talent required resulted in Chaucer reporting a loss in 2008, our first since 2001. to achieve our long-term plans.
We have recruited 20 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 13 13 Joint Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Chaucer is an excellent business, which, with its strong underwriting focus, diverse business mix and healthy prospects, remains well placed for 2009 and beyond.
underwriters throughout our international marine and nonbusiness that it is today.
We wish to thank the management marine offices in London, Singapore and at Chaucer Insurance, team and staff for their continued dedication.
Our plans also include further distribution On a personal note, we would like to take this opportunity to pay channel development to complement the Lloyds presence in tribute to Bob Deutsch who resigned from the Board at the end both major and growing markets with our own presence, as we of 2008.
Bob has played an important role in the development have done successfully in Singapore.
of Chaucer since he joined the Board in 2002 and we would like Nevertheless, our underwriting operations proved robust, to express our sincere thanks for his dedication and his wise contributing 33m, and recording a combined ratio of 93.9%, counsel on the Board.
despite 2008 being the second costliest year ever in terms of We believe that we should meet the challenge of 2009 with major insured losses with an estimated total market cost of confidence: drawing on the skill and commitment that has been US$50bn.
There was an unprecedented spate of high value the hallmark of all of our achievements to date.
Chaucer is an single risk losses in the first half of the year.
Hurricanes Gustav excellent business, which, with its strong underwriting focus, and Ike then followed.
Together, these events caused heavy diverse business mix and healthy prospects, remains well marine, energy and property losses, although the cost remains placed for 2009 and beyond.
broadly in line with our catastrophe budget.
There were also significant losses in the financial and professional liability markets as the effects of the 2007 credit crunch began to widen in 2008, which have particularly affected Syndicate Martin Gilbert 4000, although the Syndicates substantial risk loadings have Chairman largely absorbed the impact of these losses.
A great business and a great team Since our creation and listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1998, we have worked diligently and tirelessly to create a firstclass Lloyds business, recruiting and retaining talented Ewen Gilmour individuals, providing the resources, management support and Chief Executive leadership required to build the unique culture that makes Chaucer the professional and highly respected underwriting 8 April 2009 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
