Chief Executives Report Financial Results Against such a stark market backdrop, asset managers have had their business models thoroughly stress tested.
F&C has, however, demonstrated that it is a robust business.
We have benefited from our strategy of diversification by asset class, client type and geographic exposure.
We ended the year with assets under management of 98.6 billion, down less than 5 per cent.
This resilience was underpinned by the stability provided by our exposure to fixed income assets and our management of Euro-denominated portfolios.
These factors helped mitigate the impact of the sharp decline in equities and of Sterling against other major currencies.
Revenues also proved robust with net investment management fees, being base management fees less fee and commission expenses, of 220.9 million down 5.2 per cent.
Noninvestment management fees declined by 22.4 million as a result 2008 was a year which saw unprecedented volatility and asset of reduced performance fees and a fall in non-recurring sources class correlation in the markets as confidence in the banking of other income.
The reduction in revenues was partly offset by a system evaporated and major financial institutions across the 12.9 million decline in the cost base, partially reflecting the globe required government-led bail-outs.
Credit markets were benefit of actions taken by management.
paralysed for much of the year, with spreads on investment grade bonds widening significantly.
Equity volatility reached record The group made an underlying profit after tax of 38.3 million levels as the process of fide-leveraging gathered pace and 2007: 50.2 million with underlying earnings per share of investors sought refuge in government bonds.
suffered from an extreme lack of liquidity.
However, the company incurred a number of exceptional, All major equity indices ended the year sharply lower, with the non-recurring items.
These related to implementing cost reduction FTSE 100 Index posting a total return decline of 28.3 per cent.
its measures, corporate advisory costs and a 12.3 million charge on worst year since inception, and the US market experiencing the open forward currency contracts.
second biggest decline in its history.
Meanwhile, as the tightening Additionally, as a result of severely reduced market levels, we of credit impacted consumer spending and business finance, the have taken an impairment charge of 48.3 million on the value of global economy slipped into recession during the fourth quarter.
intangible management contracts that were acquired as a result In the UK this prompted the Bank of England to reduce interest of the merger of F&C Group and ISIS Asset Management in 2004 rates to their lowest level in three centuries and to vastly expand and the acquisition of RSAI Investments in 2002.
This impairment its provision of liquidity.
charge does not affect cash, covenants or gearing.
The rapid deterioration in prospects for global growth prompted a As a result of these exceptional items and non-cash charges, the sharp reversal in commodity prices after they soared to new highs group made a loss after tax and non-recurring items of in the first half of 2008.
Having peaked at $142 a barrel in July, 50.5 million.
crude oil ended the year at $36 while copper prices halved in less than six months.
Distribution and Business Flows The financial crisis is profoundly reshaping the banking and Twelve-months ago we reported that having invested in products, financial services industries.
The traditional Wall Street investment people and infrastructure during 2007, our intention was to focus banking model has disappeared with Lehman Brothers filing for on distribution during 2008. bankruptcy, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch being absorbed by The group made progress in enhancing our distribution other banks and both Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley capabilities during the year.
We have established a distribution converting their status to that of bank holding companies.
presence in Asia through the opening of an office in Hong Kong, Around the world, governments have been forced to either signed new distribution agreements, added funds to new nationalise or take significant stakes in banks to prevent a platforms and have won our first mandate in Canada.
However, complete meltdown of the financial system.
In the United Kingdom, given the severity of market events during the year, new business Bradford & Bingley and Northern Rock have been nationalised generated has not met initial targets.
and the UK government has taken major stakes in Royal Bank of The three-year growth plan launched in 2007 was predicated on Scotland and Lloyds Group.
The UK government now has a benign markets and stable ownership.
Given the turbulent market substantial equity stake in the banking sector.
Similar governmentconditions and uncertainty resulting from Friends Provident led actions have taken place in the US and across Europe.
announcing that it wished to divest its 52 per cent.
shareholding 2008 was also the worst year on record for the alternative in F&C, our focus shifted to managing the business through the investment industry.
The average hedge fund produced negative current turbulence rather than achieving targets developed in a returns with the CS Tremont Hedge Fund Index down 18.3 per radically different environment.
The alternatives industry has experienced significant Notwithstanding this, we believe the enhancements to our redemptions resulting in many hedge funds erecting gates to infrastructure, product range and distribution capabilities that prevent further outflows.
These problems have been compounded were implemented as part of the three-year plan do leave the by the revelations of an alleged major fraud by US-based business better positioned to grow once markets have stabilised.
We continued to focus on generating inflows in higher margin areas, a key tenet of our strategy, with the average fee rate on 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 new institutional business 30.0 per cent.
higher than fees earned stabilises and the process of fide-leveraging plays out, markets will on institutional outflows.
remain febrile and investor confidence will be weak.
We generated 2.4 billion of institutional new business during the Given this outlook, we have been proactive in adjusting our cost year, some 51 per cent.
of which came in the fourth quarter.
base to the tougher operating environment and we anticipate However, our ability to generate new institutional business was continuing to reduce costs through 2009.
On 17 December 2008 constrained by the uncertainty over our ownership.
Despite we announced a 15 million cost reduction programme which will having 28 ratings by investment consultants at the end of 2008, a impact the 2009 cost base.
record level for our business, a number of these ratings have While the performance of the majority of our investment desks has been placed on hold.
met or exceeded relative benchmarks or peers, we are acutely Given the challenging headwinds, we made good progress in the aware that in absolute terms the sharp declines in market levels higher margin client categories.
We had record inflows into our have resulted in significant value destruction for many of our SICAV funds with net sales rising 102 per cent.
Our focus will be to help our clients rebuild their capital.
Net sales of our UK Retail funds were broadly flat which is a Although the banking system is at the epicentre of the global satisfactory outturn given that many of our peers experienced financial crisis, there has been collective failure across the substantial retail outflows.
Our relative success in mutual fund financial system with lessons for regulators, rating agencies and flows was based on a combination of solution-driven products institutional investors.
In particular, asset managers need to and funds targeted at consolidating existing assets.
We also assess whether they could have done more to exert influence made good progress during 2008 in adding our funds to new over the banks in areas such as board effectiveness and product platforms which will better position us to win new executive remuneration.
F&C continues with an active programme business in the future.
of engaging with companies and exercising shareholder rights and we report separately on this activity.
Investment Performance We believe that clients will expect to see tangible evidence that Overall relative investment performance was solid.
On an asset asset managers are effectively engaging with companies, weighted basis we outperformed on 62 per cent.
of equities including the use of votes, to protect and enhance shareholder managed and 46 per cent.
F&C has a market leading franchise in corporate records remain competitive on the majority of investment desks.
governance and shareholder engagement and during the year we Reflecting our broad, all-weather product set, relative won a number of new mandates for our reo responsible performance of individual fund products was mixed.
Some of our engagement overlay service.
We also anticipate greater scrutiny more actively managed high alpha strategies were severely of the robustness of an asset managers own risk-management constrained by the illiquid trading conditions.
culture, financial position and business model.
We believe that Two of our three single strategy hedge funds delivered positive F&C is well positioned in all of these areas.
absolute returns, with F&C Zircon Fund posting a 19 per cent.
We note the announcement by Friends Provident that it intends to return during its first year and being short-listed in its category in distribute its shareholding in F&C to its own shareholders by midthe EuroHedge Awards.
We welcome the lifting of the uncertainty over our We earned 7.9 million in performance fees during the year.
In line ownership and the opportunity to broaden our shareholder base.
with previous guidance, these were down from the record levels We are working closely with Friends Provident towards an orderly we achieved in 2007. divestment and the extension of our investment management agreements with Friends Provident under terms and conditions Creation of F&C REIT Asset Management that are in line with commercial best practice and take into An important development during the year was the merger of our account the interests of stakeholders in both companies.
property business in the UK and Ireland with REIT Asset Following the proposed distribution of Friends Providents Management.
This transaction completed in September.
The shareholding, F&C will remain a separately listed public company combined business, F&C REIT, is an autonomous global property with its own independent Board and governance structure.
asset manager with 7.9 billion under management.
F&C REIT is With uncertainties regarding our ownership resolved and the 70 per cent.
owned by the F&C group with the founders of REIT strength of our diversified business model demonstrated through Asset Management holding a 30 per cent.
interest with the some of the worst market conditions in history, during 2009 we potential to increase it to 40 per cent.
over time on achieving will renew our focus on asset gathering and continue to engage agreed financial performance targets.
The achievement of these with investment consultants.
targets would be value-enhancing for the F&C group.
While our focus remains on organic growth, we will continue to The integration of the two property businesses has gone well.
take a pragmatic approach to non-organic opportunities, as we F&C REIT has already made its presence felt in the market having did with our acquisition of REIT Asset Management, which fit with successfully bid for a portfolio of 221 property assets formerly our multi-specialist model and have minimal disruption for our owned by the Dawnay Day group.
Although the outlook for the commercial property market remains tough, the management team at F&C REIT has considerable experience of investing in downturns and sees opportunities to acquire high quality properties from forced sellers.
During 2009 the group plans to bring new products to the market, including a UK Opportunities Fund.
Outlook Alain L. Grisay The outlook for the asset management industry remains challenging.
Chief Executive Until the extent of bank losses is fully disclosed, the financial system 10 March 2009 7 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Business Review 9
