Our work on safety has been acknowledged inside BP Annual Review 2008 and outside the group.
For instance, the boards Group chief independent expert, L Duane Wilson, continues to report on our progress in implementing the improvements executives review recommended by the BP US Re neries Independent Safety Review Panel and identify areas that need more focused attention.
Our most recent employee survey indicated employees are also seeing the results of our work to enhance safety.
Clearly, there is more to do and safety remains at the front of our minds.
Beyond safety, we are also committed to high ethical standards and legal compliance in all aspects of our business.
We have continued to enhance and improve compliance programmes in areas such as our integrated supply and trading function.
Driving In last years Annual Review I described the forward agenda we were pursuing to close the competitive gap by making BP a simpler and forward more ef cient organization.
Throughout 2008 we maintained our focus on reducing cost and complexity, and embedding a strong performance Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive culture throughout the group.
We achieved success 24 February 2009 on both counts.
Layers of management have been removed, there is accountability for performance Highlights at all levels and we have created a strong focus Progress with safe and reliable operations.
Major projects delivered and revenues restored.
Complexity and costs being reduced.
How have these priorities affected your people?
First, I would like to thank our employees for the part they have played in turning around BPs In a year that will be remembered for extremely volatile performance.
Their determination and commitment oil prices and exceptional stock market turbulence, BP have been truly remarkable and we have come a long delivered an excellent set of results.
We made good way in a short time.
At the same time, we continue to progress on achieving safe and reliable operations, and provide excellent support for employees.
From learning delivered strong operational momentum that reduced and development to diversity and inclusion, we are the performance gap with our competitors.
enabling people to achieve sustained high performance.
During the year we bene ted from record Less complexity means we can now clearly identify high oil prices.
Replacement cost pro t for the year top performers both businesses and individuals was a record $25.6 billion, with a return on average and reward them appropriately.
We outperformed How did Exploration and Production perform?
the FTSE 100 by 17% and our ADSs outperformed It was an excellent year, with major projects such the S&P 500 index of large cap US by 2%.
as Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico and Deepwater Gunashli in Azerbaijan coming onstream.
That, together At the start of the year what priorities with safe and reliable performance from our existing did you set out for BP?
operations, contributed to underlying production Safety, people and performance, and these remain growth in contrast to the falling output of our major our priorities.
Our number one priority was to do competitors and more than compensated for the everything possible to achieve safe, compliant and effects of Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and other reliable operations.
Rigorous cost control and ef ciency Good policies and processes are essential but, offset the signi cant cost in ation that hit our sector.
ultimately, safety is about how people think and act.
The start of production at Thunder Horse was an Thats critical at the front line but it is also true for the important milestone in terms of recovery and renewal.
Safety must inform every decision and It was also a good year for exploration with major new every action.
The BP operating management system discoveries in Algeria, Angola, Egypt and the Gulf of OMS turns the principle of safe and reliable operations Mexico.
We also gained new access to oil sands in into reality by governing how every BP project, site, Canada and shale gas in the US, as well as gaining operation and facility is managed.
licences to explore in the Canadian Arctic.
2008 was our 15th consecutive year of delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
4 exploration, appraisal, development and the turnaround in Re ning and Marketing, we also invested $1.4 billion in alternative forms of energy such as wind, solar, biofuels and carbon capture and storage CCS.
Looking ahead, on the issue of greenhouse gas GHG emissions, we believe legislation is required to ensure that a cost of carbon is included in the price of everything.
This would enable companies such as BP to make even greater investments in low-carbon energy.
We favour cap-and-trade as it provides environmental certainty based on an absolute emissions cap.
A global system is the ultimate objective, but progress must be made at national and regional levels first.
It is getting tougher for BP and others to access new resources: do international oil companies really have a sustainable future?
International oil companies thrive at the frontiers of the energy industry taking on challenges others are either unwilling or unable to address.
BP continues to agree signi cant new deals, from oil sands to the Beaufort Sea in Canada as well as making new discoveries in Algeria, Angola, Egypt and the Gulf of Mexico.
We have also resolved the dispute with our TNK-BP joint venture partners in Russia.
We secure these agreements because we can build enduring relationships and have technical capabilities and experience distinct in our industry.
Research and technology play a vital role here.
By improving the ef ciency of fossil fuel recovery and How far has Re ning and Marketing November 2008 discovery, promoting fuel conversion and developing addressed its most critical problems?
Tony Hayward low-carbon alternatives, we are helping to provide discusses operating We made good progress on achieving safe, compliant affordable, sustainable energy for today and tomorrow.
priorities with and reliable operations.
We improved re ning availability employees at the on an annualized basis from 83% to 89% and restored BP Carson re nery, What is the plan for Alternative Energy: full economic capability at the Texas City and Whiting California, US.
what role will it play in BPs portfolio?
In our fuels value chains we are achieving With both energy demand and carbon emissions rising, greater integration between re neries, terminals, the world needs every sustainable, affordable energy pipelines and retail sites.
The international businesses, source available.
We invest a signi cant amount in which include lubricants, petrochemicals, aviation alternative energy technology compared with our peers and marine fuels and lique ed petroleum gas, have and, for us, the key question is which technologies performed well.
We have also started to address will make the greatest contribution to meeting energy overhead cost by reducing senior level headcount and demand while providing BP with strong growth by simplifying the marketing footprint.
In 2008 we prioritized areas with signi cant driving greater consistency and ef ciency through long-term growth potential wind, solar, biofuels and the business to capitalize on the leadership positions CCS and directed the majority of our $1.4 billion we enjoy in the most valuable markets.
investment in the year to these areas.
How is BP responding to the twin challenges Is BP entering its centenary year in of energy security and climate change?
Our job is to help meet the worlds energy needs On the basis of our 2008 performance, I believe we today, invest in the next generation of energy sources can declare that BP is back.
Clearly, however, we and support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
must continue to adjust to market conditions.
Oil and Alternative energy production is growing but currently gas prices go up and down: our job is to ensure we represents just 2% of global energy production, so the can compete and thrive through every part of the cycle, world will need fossil fuels for years to come even something weve been doing for 100 years.
Despite if demand slows and we will play an important role the challenges ahead, I am con dent that we now by meeting this need while developing options for have the positive momentum and exibility required the future.
to achieve success as we begin our next century.
In 2008 we responded to these challenges by a investing nearly $22 billion in our businesses an increase of 13% on 2007.
Along with supporting our work on Speeches by Tony Hayward bp.
com speeches a Excluding acquisitions and asset exchanges and excluding the accounting for our transactions with Husky Energy Inc. and Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
