29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:55 Page 8 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW LEADERSHIP TEAM CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE ARE REORGANISED AND RE-ENERGISED First, let me pay tribute to Sir Adrian Montague for the way he led Friends Provident until I was able to take up my appointment at the end of July.
He skilfully guided the Group through the most testing of times, overseeing a fundamental change in our strategic direction.
The extensive progress made over the first half of the year to reorganise the business around its new strategic focus is in no small part due to Sir Adrians energy, drive and vision.
STRENGTHENED OPERATIONAL TEAM Following my arrival at the end of July, we have further strengthened the operational leadership team through some new appointments, and this team is committed to building confidence in Friends Provident and in its significant potential.
Importantly, each member of this team is personally accountable for delivering against the key objectives of the Group and, where appropriate, for the profitability of the activities under his or her direct control.
These same principles of personal accountability and the linking of rewards to performance are being cascaded throughout the organisation.
During 2008, we have extensively reorganised around our new strategic focus, and done so in a way that sharpens our competitive edge.
Operationally, this involved adopting a specialist approach to the UK life and pensions market, exiting the less profitable segments, placing profits ahead of volumes and prioritising international growth.
As a consequence of narrowing our UK focus, we committed to reduce our annual operating costs by 40 million by the end of 2009.
We remain well on track to achieve this aim, having locked down 25 million of annualised cost savings during 2008.
8 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:55 Page 9 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES I CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I BUSINESS REVIEW I KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW During 2008, we have extensively reorganised around our new strategic focus, and done so in a way that sharpens our competitive edge.
UNITED KINGDOM expertise, we can help AmLife to grow strongly and New business from the UK in 2008 was well down profitably in a market of such exciting potential.
compared with 2007 levels as a consequence both of the Lombard also increased its level of sales during 2008, economic environment and our planned repositioning in which represents a very encouraging performance in the our home market.
Although market conditions look set to light of such deteriorating markets, albeit that the remain very challenging for some time to come, I believe headline numbers are increased by the falling value of the uncertainty about Friends Provident has now passed sterling against the euro.
Lombards performance and confidence in us is being restored, particularly within reinforces the strength of its proposition, its relationships the distributor community.
with distributors and its market diversity.
This is a unique The new structures introduced for our sales personnel business with a distribution profile that is hard to have now bedded down and we continue to attract a replicate.
Its longer term prospects for profitable growth stream of top industry awards recognising the high and for generating increasing levels of cash for the Group regard held for our products and services.
committed to the UK marketplace, and are enthusiastic FOCUS ON CUSTOMERS about our prospects for building a sustainable and One of the many attributes that attracted me to Friends profitable business within these shores.
Provident is its renowned ethical approach to business, INTERNATIONAL which is in the DNA of the Company.
The economic Although every major region of the world has been ructions may have pushed corporate responsibility out of affected by the economic crisis, the overseas life and the headlines, but it remains integral to our culture, our pensions markets continue, in general, to remain more reputation, and the way we do business.
A key element attractive than those in the UK, hence our strategic aim of our corporate responsibility programme, for which I am to prioritise international growth.
personally responsible to the Board, is to restore the publics confidence in our industry.
Friends Provident International achieved record sales in 2008, with particularly strong growth in the Middle East.
We are pleased to endorse and support the Financial During the year, we moved into larger premises in Dubai Services Authoritys aspirations behind its Retail Distribution to help us continue our expansion in this important region.
Anything that ensures good quality financial advice is more widely available and more easily accessible In the Far East, we have extended the range of products can only be good for our fellow citizens, and we will do all available in Singapore, which is still a relatively new we can to help bring about a successful outcome.
We were also delighted, towards the end of 2008, to enter the Malaysian market through Throughout 2008 we reviewed all of our major customer purchasing a 30% stake in the well-established and services activities to ensure that the Financial Services successful Malaysian life assurance business, AmLife.
Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly principles were We are confident that by pooling our wide-ranging embedded in our processes by the end of the year.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9
