Chairman and Chief Executives Statement We are pleased to announce our final results for the year ended 30 Dividend June 2008.
Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of investment management products and services to private investors We have declared a final ordinary dividend of 2.42 pence per in the UK, and 2008 saw us continue to grow the business despite share, taking the total ordinary dividends up to 5.485 pence per challenging market conditions.
This total dividend payout equates to 60% of post tax profits.
As we have said previously, we do not intend to Our first full financial year as a publicly quoted company has been accumulate cash going forwards and are therefore pleased to a testing time.
Our trading results must be viewed in light of the declare a special dividend of 2.324 pence per share.
This equates state of world stock markets and the world economy.
Volatile to a further 25% of post tax profits.
Any special dividend in future markets bring the fear factor to the fore and investors shun stock years will depend upon our future cash requirements and market investment.
Salient factors affecting financial markets have therefore may vary.
been numerous, such as the American sub-prime debacle, the collapse of property markets, the credit crunch, the oil price and Outlook and Strategy recent falls in the Chinese and Indian stock markets, which had been billed as two of the worlds most promising economies.
The outlook for markets remains gloomy and people are unlikely The bulk of our revenue is derived from the value of assets held to invest when they believe stocks will decline in value.
The events under administration or management on behalf of clients.
In that unfurled during the last 18 months gave all citizens a volatile times one of the major stimuli to that income is the reminder about the ills of profligacy.
Many people are currently change in the value of the stock markets in which our clients repairing their own balance sheets and we are seeing a boost in invest predominantly the UK market.
The most relevant index, savings.
Initially this money will not be invested in the stock the FTSE All Share, decreased during the period by 16%, a fall market and investments in which Hargreaves Lansdown specialises which the bulk of our assets under administration would have but eventually when there is confidence we shall see investors once suffered.
again putting a toe in the water.
In the meantime we have ideas to help in our quest to continue gathering assets.
We have During the financial year ended 30 June 2008 the assets that we demonstrated we can look after our clients well and be good administer for clients have increased from 10.2 billion to 11.1 custodians.
billion, an increase of 0.9 billion or 9%.
We would be the last to be pleased about the overall figure but in light of markets this One area which arguably should be less affected by markets is our result is nothing less than remarkable.
It does demonstrate our SIPP Self Invested Personal Pension.
However it is our belief ability to grow client assets even in adverse conditions.
Our that the economy will also have an effect on clients ability and ongoing service, approachability and alacrity have held us once propensity to make pension contributions, many perhaps deferring again in good stead.
The business has demonstrated innovative the decision until the end of the tax year, preferring to keep their and entrepreneurial ability which we believe has resulted in us cash in case of need.
However, there is one opportunity on the increasing our market share, specifically in the ISA market.
horizon, from October: the eligibility for inclusion in SIPPs of protected rights pension monies.
Elsewhere, our Corporate Solutions division has focused on building awareness of our Results Group SIPP offering with considerable success.
This is the last main piece in the jigsaw puzzle to move away from indemnity The Group has had a successful years trading, particularly in the commission and provide us with what we believe is a better long context of less favourable market conditions.
This performance is term business but at the cost of short term profit.
reflected in both underlying operating profit before tax and exceptional items which increased by 42% from 40.7 million to The depth and the extent of any recession that might occur may 57.8 million and turnover which increased by 22% from 98.8 be fully discounted but it is possible that stock markets have million to 120.3 million.
The percentage of revenue which is further to fall.
There is a silver lining to the cloud: in volatile recurring in nature i. e. renewal commission, management fees times investors do seek to cut costs which could benefit our and interest increased from 65% to 72%.
Operating costs were Vantage service, whilst others will seek more personal assistance well controlled during the year and our underlying operating and we have experienced more frequent requests for our Financial profit margin increased from 41% to 48%.
Underlying diluted Practitioners division to help clients through these troubled times.
earnings per share have risen by 41% to 9.0 pence compared with For the industry in which we trade, these may be the most 6.4 pence for 2007. difficult times faced in recent history but the quality of our offering, the high calibre of our staff and our underlying income During the year our assets under administration increased by 9% base afford us the potential to emerge with significantly higher from 10.2 billion to 11.1 billion.
This includes 1.4 billion of market share.
Our regular client contact will enable us to be the assets also under our management, an increase of 8% on the first to sense the green shoots of client confidence which, if history previous year.
The growth in assets under administration and repeats itself, will surely occur one day.
management has arisen as a result of strong net inflows which have more than compensated for market decline.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 5 Chairman and Chief Executives Statement - continued Regulation Conclusion The regulatory environment that we operate in is continuing to Our continued growth and resilient performance against the evolve towards a more principles based approach with primary backdrop of a volatile market have been achieved thanks to the importance placed on ensuring that investors are treated fairly.
hard work of our talented people and the continued trust and This fits perfectly with Hargreaves Lansdowns culture and support of our clients, for which we are extremely appreciative.
We business goals because fair treatment of clients is central to our are constantly looking at ways to incentivise our staff and have success as a business.
In 2007 new regulations stemming from the recently improved the pension arrangements available to them by EU took effect as part of the EUs move towards creating a level establishing a Group SIPP and relaxing the restrictions for playing field across Europe.
We have implemented measures to eligibility of our group life and income protection schemes.
comply with these new requirements, which in themselves have Irrespective of what market conditions prevail, we remain not had a significant or detrimental impact on our business model.
committed to growing our business and providing our clients with The Financial Services Authority is continuing its work on the the best service, the best prices and the best information.
Retail Distribution Review looking at the way the financial services sector operates.
We do not believe that the FSAs Peter K Hargreaves Stephen Lansdown preliminary proposals on the review will have an adverse effect on Chief Executive Officer Chairman our business.
24 September 2008 Board Changes We were delighted to welcome Jonathan Davis who joined the Board on 1st February 2008 as our third non-executive director.
This fulfils the commitment we made in the last financial report to bring our Board into line with best practice.
Jonathan is a former senior business journalist on The Times, The Economist and The Independent, is a regular columnist in the Financial Times, is founder of Independent Investor LLP, an independent investment publishing business and is Investment Director of Agrifirma Services Ltd, an investment advisory firm.
Jonathans knowledge and experience will be of great benefit to the Board and we very much look forward to working with him.
It was with disappointment that we accepted the resignation of Adam Norris as managing director of our advisory and corporate business on 13th March 2008, to pursue other interests outside of the financial services sector.
Adam had been with the Company for almost ten years and we should like to thank him for his contribution to the Group in helping to establish ourselves as a significant player in the corporate pensions market.
Offices On 25th October 2007 we signed the agreement to lease our new premises at Harbourside in Bristol.
The offices of 100,000 square feet will allow us to consolidate all our businesses under one roof and improve the dynamic of our business.
Work is now well under way and we anticipate moving in to these new premises in December 2009 January 2010.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 6
