Chief Executives review We are as determined as ever to ensure that our strategy is executed effectively and to meet our shareholders expectations.
Paul Adams Chief Executive Our strategy to deliver our vision Strong growth Progress on responsibility is based on growth, productivity, Group volumes from subsidiaries were We published our first Sustainability responsibility and building a 715 billion, up 4 per cent.
The slightly Report, building on our social reporting winning organisation.
softer volumes in Latin America and over the previous 6 years.
You can read America-Pacific were more than offset the Report at www.
by growth in Asia-Pacific, Africa and We will publish our 2008 Report by Middle East, and Europe.
Organic volume was up 1 per cent, In addition to our existing snus brands, driven by the strong performance Lucky Strike, Peter Stuyvesant and du of our Global Drive Brands GDBs Maurier, we have introduced Pall Mall Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and snus in Norway and Sweden.
With Pall Mall and revenue improved the acquisition of ST, we now own the due to a beneficial price mix.
Fiedler & Lundgren business and its Vision Granit, Mocca and Metropol brands.
Our acquisitions of the cigarette To achieve leadership of the These will strengthen our capability for assets of Tekel and the cigarette global tobacco industry.
further progress in this product category.
and snus businesses of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni ST have further Building a winning organisation Growth strengthened our market positions in Our recent employee opinion survey, To increase our volume and Turkey, Scandinavia and Poland.
We Your Voice, found that 87 per cent of value share of the global tobacco have now integrated the manufacturing, respondents are proud to be associated market through organic growth distribution and sales operations of with our organisation, 82 per cent and mergers and acquisitions.
these businesses and they are meeting would recommend the Group as a good our marketing and financial expectations.
place to work and 90 per cent say they Productivity understand how their role contributes to To effectively and efficiently Productivity gains the achievement of the Groups strategy.
deploy our global resources to Over 245 million in productivity These are all higher than the norm for increase profits and generate savings were delivered in 2008.
We are the comparator group of businesses.
funds to reinvest in our business.
well on the way to delivering our cost savings target of 800 million by 2012.
There is more about these topics on Responsibility Our operating margin has increased to pages 26 to 29.
To continue balancing our 31 per cent in the year.
Industry outlook commercial objectives with Savings in 2008 were largely achieved World consumption the expectations of a broad through primary supply chain efficiencies The World Health Organisation WHO range of stakeholders, thus and further standardisation and has estimated that even allowing for an ensuring a sustainable business.
An example of average decline in tobacco consumption this is our Global Leaf Pool organisation, of 1 per cent per year, adult population Winning Organisation which has allowed us to reduce leaf growth could see the number of smokers To ensure we have the right people stocks, saving 111 million in working in the world increase from 1.4 billion to and the right work environment to capital at 2007 prices.
1.5 billion between 2005 and 2050. deliver our vision.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 04 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Group numbers 2008 33,921 million 3,717 million 128.78 pence Gross turnover Profit from operations, excluding Adjusted diluted earnings per share including duty, excise and other taxes adjusting items 12,122 million 105 million 715 billion Revenue Research and development expenditure Group cigarette volumes, excluding associates Volume declines are evident in developed governments and in our view several and Imperial Groups Altadis deal, markets.
However, some developing aspects of them would be unworkable as well as our 2 acquisitions.
markets in eastern Europe and east or illegal in various parts of the world.
In the near term, corporate activity is Asia are recording growth.
This trend As governments consider incorporating likely to comprise further disposals of should be maintained and the profit elements of the FCTC into their own laws, state-owned or privately-owned tobacco pool is expected to continue to grow.
we will continue to offer constructive businesses rather than large scale, Illicit trade views and solutions.
We believe there transformational deals.
We will continue We estimate that global illicit trade is much to be gained by including the to monitor acquisition opportunities and volumes are in excess of 300 billion responsible tobacco industry in the participate where it makes financial and cigarettes per annum, representing regulatory process and we remain in strategic sense to do so.
around 6 per cent of world cigarette dialogue with many governments.
Moving forward consumption and losing governments Challenging economic times Tobacco has shown itself to be 1 of the internationally about 10 billion in taxes.
The short-term outlook is overshadowed more resilient industries in economic As such, illicit trade represents a major by deteriorating consumer confidence downturns.
We are confident that our global competitor.
Addressing this could and the prospect of many key economies balance across price segments and provide a potential source of growth for being in recession.
geographies, our strong brand portfolio the Group, tax revenue for governments and our dedicated and talented people Although it is prudent to expect some and better serve the needs of consumers.
will help us to navigate through this level of adverse consumer response, challenging period.
The Parties to the WHO Framework on the whole we have not experienced a Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC loss of consumer interest in our premium We are as determined as ever to are developing a protocol aimed at brands, which recorded a 5 per cent rise ensure that our strategy is executed creating an international regulatory in organic volumes in 2008. effectively and to meet our shareholders framework for addressing illicit trade.
We are well placed to capture downWe strongly support the development trading consumers with our balanced of a protocol as it should provide brand portfolio covering all the key measures to help address the problem.
Our volume Increasing regulation is approximately one-third in each In November 2008, the Parties to the of the premium, mid-price and FCTC adopted guidelines containing low-price segments.
recommendations for governments Our geographic spread also helps to on tobacco policy-making.
These protect shareholders from volatility recommendations include bans on in foreign exchange markets.
tobacco companies publicising their corporate social responsibility activities, Competitive landscape bans on the display of tobacco products The last 2 years have seen a high level at the point of sale and the introduction of corporate activity in the industry with of plain tobacco packaging.
These Japan Tobaccos acquisition of Gallaher, guidelines are not mandatory for the spin-off of Philip Morris International Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 05 Business review
