11 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Group Chief Executive Officers review Michael Spencer ICAP has enjoyed another very successful year.
We have made further significant progress towards our strategic goal, which has been clear and consistent for several years: to be the leading global intermediary in the wholesale OTC markets by a clear margin.
Our aim is to have at least a 35% share of overall interdealer market revenue and generate 50% of our operating profit from electronic broking.
We are on our way to achieving our vision: to create the global exchange for OTC financial products and to build a global brand in wholesale financial services.
These record results demonstrate a very strong performance from ICAP.
We have benefited from higher volatility in the interest rate, FX, equity, commodities and in parts of the credit and emerging markets that began in June 2007.
Both our electronic and voice broking businesses experienced the positive impact of these higher levels of activity and we benefited from substantial operating leverage, particularly in the electronic business.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 12 Group Chief Executive Officers review continued Delivering on our strategy We believe that the combination of a very significant technology-based A year ago we said that to deliver on our strategy we needed to business, an extensive global network and the leading voice broking accelerate the growth of electronic broking revenue and expand into business is very valuable.
new markets and geographic areas to continue the growth of the voice The commitment of both financial and intellectual capital to the OTC broking business.
We had just announced the Hyde acquisition and said markets continues to provide a stimulating environment for financial that we would complete the integration and pursue further shipping products innovation.
As new products emerge, voice brokers help to opportunities.
Post-trade services was also identified as an area in develop these nascent, illiquid markets, drawing together counterparties which we were keen to expand.
In the emerging markets and energy and developing new businesses.
We have identified several key markets products we were pursuing an acquisition and organic growth strategy.
that we believe have greater structural growth potential for the next We also saw the potential to improve further our credit and equity three to five years.
It is on these focus areas that we are concentrating derivatives capability and market share.
Finally we said that we would for the expansion of our voice broking business emerging markets, deliver incremental synergies from the integration of EBS with ICAP credit, cash equities and equity derivatives and commodities including Electronic Broking.
shipping increasingly diversifying our revenue base.
This year ICAPs I am pleased to say that we have achieved all of that, and more!
revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years increased again to a very healthy 20%, up from 16% in the The combination of the electronic spot FX and our fixed income previous financial year.
We will continue to reallocate resources into these electronic broking businesses has created a global multi-product platform high growth areas where headcount, including Link, the recently acquired that we believe has further major growth potential.
Electronic broking equity derivative business, has risen by 59% while the headcount in the revenue increased significantly, by 38% to 273.9 million, primarily in more commoditised areas has fallen by 3%.
Headcount in the support existing markets.
The operating profit margin improved from 28% to areas has increased by 11% during the year.
39%, driving the share of our operating profit from electronic broking to 32% compared with 22% in 2007.
The current product portfolio We rely heavily on the quality of our management team to drive up our encompasses over 30 products, up from 20 products a year ago.
operating profit margins through market share growth and tight cost This is the largest electronic broking business in our industry with control and to extract the scale economies that make these businesses an estimated 46% market share and has significant economies of scale so sustainable.
As a people business, a key attribute of our management through combining and leveraging technology, networks and platforms.
team is our ability to recruit and retain the highest quality staff: brokers, The combined global electronic network covers more than 6,000 marketing and sales staff, support staff, technology professionals and workstations on 2,000 dealing floors spread across 50 countries.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Key achievements in 2007 08 Strategic priorities for 2008 09 Achieved strong growth in all the focus areas emerging markets, Expand our business in the key focus areas including: credit, cash equities and equity derivatives, commodities and complete the integration and grow further the Link equity shipping markets derivatives business Extracted benefits of leverage in electronic broking and continue the expansion of the global cash equities business delivered very strong growth in revenues and margins continue ICAPs growth into the shipping markets Extended new product coverage in electronic broking Further expansion in post-trade services Expanded in post-trade services with Continue to extend the new product coverage on our electronic a very good performance from Reset, the matching service broking platforms which reduces outstanding fixing risk in the interest rate market Generate superior EPS growth for our investors the acquisition of Traiana, the post-trade processing business in FX and other products Diversified into shipping with the acquisition of Hyde and Capital Increased both basic EPS and adjusted basic EPS by 27% We are delivering on the goals we identified last year 13 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements We have adopted a culture of working in partnership with our customers.
People power As a part of this partnership we believe that there are many business opportunities in streamlining post-trade services for our customer banks as they struggle to handle the enormous increase in recent years The past year has seen a substantial growth in the number of ICAP of trading volumes in many asset classes.
It is estimated that there staff, from over 3,500 to more than 3,900, through both acquisitions are 500 million transactions annually in the OTC markets excluding and the increasing of staff numbers in faster growing areas and away futures, which cost $5 billion to process.
Improving the efficiency from mature areas.
of the whole process allows volumes to increase while minimising The largest group of ICAP staff, our brokers and their managers, risk and reducing costs to all market participants.
have very special characteristics: entrepreneurial, high calibre, To directly address these issues ICAP has made a number of very team-spirited individuals with the drive to succeed in a challenging, successful investments in post-trade services in recent years, including pressurised and dynamic environment their jobs require strong TriOptima in 2001 and Reset in 2006.
In December 2007 we acquired interpersonal and networking skills.
Traiana to provide global banks, broker dealers, buy-side firms and The financial services industry is a competitive environment for e-trading platforms with solutions to automate post-trade processing quality staff.
We need to both attract and retain staff and believe that of financial transactions.
Its Harmony network is used by over 50 a combination of our people together with sophisticated technology of the worlds leading banks to process approaching 100,000 deal and a focus on new product market innovation are an attractive tickets every day and has become the market standard for post-trade proposition to both our staff and to our customers.
Traianas technology contributes to the ICAPs graduate programme was created to attract high achievers orderly growth of the global financial markets.
The system is already for the future and the scheme has been significantly expanded in being extended to other asset classes including credit and interest recent years.
29 new graduates joined in 2007 and we are expecting rate derivatives.
a further 35 in 2008 in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
Looking ahead Overall staff compensation was 56% of revenue in 2008, a decline The outlook for the business is positive, our strategy remains unchanged from 57% in the previous year.
and our priorities are clear.
We will continue to expand our business ICAPs Charity Day has, for the past 15 years, raised very significant in the key focus areas, complete the integration of and expand Capital revenues which are donated to charities chosen by our staff around Shipbrokers and the Link equity derivatives business, build our global the world.
The success of this day relies on the combination of huge cash equities business, expand in post-trade services and extend the support from our customers and a very impressive effort from product coverage on our electronic broking platforms.
This year saw another enormous increase in the money raised to 9.2 million: benefiting more than 100 charities worldwide.
There is an increasing number of expansion opportunities for the Group, It brought the total raised by ICAP since Charity Day began to more both large and small, as the worlds financial markets grow and innovation than 42 million.
Industry consolidation is also likely to continue and the current environment offers many attractive opportunities to acquire businesses.
ICAP is well placed to make further acquisitions and fund the development of the Group using its existing financial capacity.
There are many powerful, structural reasons to be positive about the future of ICAPs business and of the markets in which we operate.
We estimate that the underlying annual growth rate of industry revenues, in the medium term, will be more than 10% although there are periods when volatility and volumes in our markets can be very 9.2m high.
The active markets we have enjoyed since June 2007 have Raised on continued into the new financial year and we believe that higher Charity Day 2007 volatility will continue to drive volume growth.
