IG Group Holdings plc Chief Executives Report Report and Financial Statements 2008 11 Chief Executives Report e have had another successful year, achieving a very strong level of growth whilst also significantly developing the Group and its client offering.
Revenue W growth of 51% this year exceeded our long run average over the last 10 years we have achieved compound annual growth in excess of 40%.
Over the last 10 years we As previously indicated, the opening of new businesses in France, Spain and the US have achieved compound has meant that we added costs before these businesses began to generate revenue.
In addition, betting duty was a rather higher percentage of revenue than in recent years.
annual growth in excess Despite these factors, our EBITDA margin this year remains strong, at 53.5%, although of 40% down from 57.7% the previous year.
Financial markets were volatile for much of the year.
Volatility benefits us because clients tend to trade more actively in these conditions.
It is, however, encouraging to note that our best months revenue in the year was achieved in April, which was not a volatile month when compared to the preceding nine months.
Over the longer term, client recruitment is the most significant driver of our revenue growth.
The rate of client recruitment has been increasing progressively for a number of years.
This year we recruited more than twice the number of spread betting and CFD clients compared with the previous year and well over three times the number achieved in the year before that.
This reflects continued growth of client recruitment within our UK business, together with the extension of our international reach.
This has also been a year of significant innovation for us.
The year began with the UK launch of PureDeal, our state-of-the-art browser-based financial dealing platform.
We then progressively rolled the platform out across the rest of our offices worldwide, in each case accompanying this with a significant update of the website.
The year also saw the introduction of a version of PureDeal customised to work on the iPhone and two new methods for clients to manage risk: trailing stops and bungee bets.
Each of these developments has proved to be popular with our clients.
Since the year end we have launched DealThru Charts, our new charting package which allows clients to deal directly from charts.
Individually none of these new features is revolutionary, but I believe they combine to make our offering significantly better than those of our competitors.
I am sure that our commitment to continuing technology and product innovation is a significant factor in the progressive improvement we have seen in client recruitment.
IG Group Holdings plc 12 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Executives Report IG Group Holdings plc Chief Executive s Report Report and Financial Statements 2008 13 Client education is also an area where we watch at a time of their choosing.
All of Financial have made significant progress during the our international offices have seminar course of the last year.
We believe that the programmes and over the coming months Our financial business performed very more help and guidance we are able to we will continue to develop each of these to strongly, with revenue increasing by 57% provide to clients, the greater will be our emulate the breadth of the UK programme.
Across our spread betting and recruitment, conversion and retention rates.
CFD businesses we opened 41,000 accounts This year has seen us significantly extend our It is eighteen months since we introduced compared to 22,500 the previous year, an international reach.
The Markets in Financial the TradeSense education programme, increase of 82%.
Instruments Directive MiFID enabled us which is now available to all our financial to open offices in Paris and Madrid at the clients worldwide.
UK-based clients dealing with our financial Over the last few months we have business produced revenue of 123.2m, supplemented TradeSense with a programme In early December we completed the an increase of 46%.
Within this, financial of seminars, some aimed at existing clients, acquisition of HedgeStreet in the US.
This spread betting, financial binary betting some at potential clients.
These seminars acquisition also provided the stimulus and CFDs all grew at similar rates.
We have are delivered either in person or online, the to activate our dormant US subsidiary, opened more than 2,000 UK spread betting latter available both in real-time so that the IG Markets Inc.
I discuss the performance of accounts in each of the last six months.
attendees can ask questions of the presenter, these, and all our other businesses, below.
and on-demand, so that attendees can Revenue million Our financial business performed very strongly, with revenue increasing by 57% to 172.5m Europe We now have four European operations targeting clients in Germany, Italy, France and Spain.
In addition to this we have direct clients of the London office in a number of other European countries and we have a number of European introducer relationships, most notably in Ireland and Greece.
Clients based in the rest of Europe generated revenue of 20.4m, an increase of 73% on EBITDA million the prior year.
About 7.2m of this revenue came from the four European operations.
We have been very pleased with the rapid progress achieved by our offices in Paris and Madrid.
Both of these started at the beginning of November and were covering their direct costs by the end of March.
By May they were each generating a level of monthly revenue which took more than two years to achieve when we started our Australian business.
Our Italian business continues to make good progress.
It currently operates as a desk in our London office, but our plans are now well advanced to open an office in Milan in the autumn.
We hope that this will enable us to accelerate our rate of client recruitment in Italy without increasing our cost base significantly.
IG Group Holdings plc 14 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Executives Report IG Group Holdings plc Chief Executive s Report Report and Financial Statements 2008 15 Our German office has also seen revenue have seen a steady trickle of new exchange has been the case for our other start-ups.
growth, but at a slower pace than our other members.
Once we have further improved However, together they represent a significant European operations.
We have recently the offering we plan to re-brand the opportunity in one of the worlds largest retail made some operational changes which we exchange and we will then increase markets for speculative financial products.
are hopeful will aid the progression of this marketing and public relations activity.
Future Developments The acquisition of HedgeStreet provided a We continue to evaluate new markets and we Asia Pacific catalyst to activate our previously dormant expect to continue to extend our geographic US subsidiary, IG Markets Inc.
This company Asia Pacific delivered strong growth with reach as suitable opportunities arise.
offers forex trading, including spot forex, revenue increasing by 115% to 27.4m.
A forex vanilla options and forex binary little over 90% of this revenue is from our White label and introducer relationships options.
IG Markets Inc. commenced trading Australian office, the remainder is principally are becoming increasingly important for us only a few weeks before the end of the from our office in Singapore.
and now account for about 14% of financial financial year.
We are in discussions with a number Rest of the World of potential white label partners in Europe In December we completed the purchase and the Asia Pacific region.
of HedgeStreet Inc. for 3m in cash.
HedgeStreet is a US-based, CFTC regulated, Asia Pacific delivered strong Sport exchange offering binary options.
The exchange had ceased active trading a few growth with revenue Revenue for our sport business fell by 5.5% months prior to our acquiring it.
The previous year contained the increasing by 115% to football World Cup, which for us is usually We re-activated the exchange in February 27.4m the biggest betting event in the four year and since then we have undertaken the sporting calendar.
If this is adjusted for then IT work necessary to expand its range of there was underlying growth in the business.
As a result, in The combined revenue of these two nascent the last few weeks we have been able to We have recently taken some steps to businesses was not significant in the year extend the market hours significantly, and reduce operating costs in order to improve to 31 May 2008.
As expected, our cost base are in the process of adding two-hour intrathe contribution that this business makes.
In in the US is higher than that of the other day contracts and an additional contract size.
addition, we are working on several projects businesses we have started recently.
which we hope will boost the revenue of the Over the coming weeks we intend to business in the coming year.
IG Markets Inc. also operates in a more continue to broaden the product range, competitive environment than any of our both in terms of contract types and other recent start-ups.
For these reasons we underlying markets offered.
To date we have Current trading anticipate that it will take longer for our US done almost no marketing or public relations and outlook businesses to reach break-even than activity for HedgeStreet, despite which we While it remains difficult to predict future trends in volatility or customer reaction to any change in market conditions, IG is well positioned for further growth.
The new financial year has started well and current trading remains very strong.
The UKs economic outlook has been deteriorating for a number of months now.
However, to date we have seen no signs of our UK clients reducing their activity levels as a result.
Client recruitment since the year end continued at the high levels seen in previous months.
I remain confident about the prospects for the coming year.
IG Group clients IG Group clients but no betting clients Tim Howkins, Chief Executive, 21 July 2008
