Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Chief Executives Business Review Nuclear output and earnings were lower than the prior year.
However, investment in the eet has resulted in signi cant operational improvement across the stations small losses were at their lowest recorded level.
Overview We will consider the lifetime extension Market and Strategic Priorities In financial year 2007 08 nuclear output of other stations three years before their Our principal activities are the generation and earnings were lower than the prior year current accounting closure dates.
Our strategic because of signi cant technical challenges priorities are to: with the Boiler Closure Unit BCU issue at We are embedding a culture of operational Hartlepool and Heysham 1 and lower loads safety and excellence through investment achieve world class operational safety at Hinkley Point B and Hunterston B to in our people and our working practices.
and excellence: reduce boiler tube temperatures.
Many visits to British Energy have been improve our financial stability: made by other nuclear operators to pursue life extensions for our stations: Looking beyond the challenges with the learn from our human performance and BCUs, the investment in the eet has programmes.
We have taken on over position British Energy for nuclear new resulted in signi cant operational 60 graduates and apprentices in the year build.
as part of our human resource planning initiatives, to train the nuclear professionals Underlying these priorities is our individual 1 Small losses were at their lowest recorded needed to accommodate succession and corporate commitment to level, and there are improvements in many planning, station life extensions and environmental excellence.
other performance metrics, with some at provide a core of employees for nuclear best ever levels.
Sizewell B, our Pressurised new build.
We use a number of key performance Water Reactor PWR, is operating to indicators to measure performance against world class standards, having operated Despite dif cult market conditions, good our strategic priorities and our commitment continuously for 516 days between statutory progress has been made in extending to safety and environmental excellence.
outages a best ever run for the station.
the depth of the trading book, and we These include output, Unplanned Capability successfully managed the financial impact Loss Factor UCLF, Unplanned Automatic We are con dent in our strategy for of buying back power as a result of the Trips, Lost Time Accidents LTA, managing original design issues inherent in BCU issue at Hartlepool and Heysham 1.
Environmental Events and the depth of the our unique Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactors We believe that the low carbon nature of xed trading book, as well as the progress in AGRs to increase their reliability, output our nuclear generation has the opportunity achieving low or zero collateral sales.
and prospects for life extension.
to create additional value as businesses search for cost effective ways to lower Operations Review We continue to invest to improve the safe, their carbon footprints.
Nuclear Stations long-term reliability and performance of Our nuclear output for the year was the eet by proactively targeting Government has clearly made the case for 50.3TWh which was 0.9TWh lower investment to improve materiel condition.
nuclear new build in the United Kingdom as than last years output of 51.2TWh.
UCLF Building on the progress over the past part of a balanced energy strategy.
We are increased slightly to 24% compared with three years, we are now targeting more uniquely positioned to participate in nuclear 23% in the previous year.
While nuclear investment to mitigate risks that might new build.
Our sites are particularly attractive output was signi cantly impacted during give rise to future losses.
During the year assets for a new build programme and we the financial year, principally in respect we announced the lifetime extension of seek to maximise the value of those sites for of BCUs and boiler issues which also Hinkley Point B and Hunterston B by five our shareholders.
An equally important asset, affected output last year, we have made years to 2016.
Further extension of these however, is our large complement of skilled considerable progress to manage the stations lives will be reviewed by 2013. nuclear professionals who will be key for a challenges presented.
1 Small losses are events less than 1TWh 06 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
