In less than two Chief Executive Ofcers statement years more than 1.6 million households have joined Sky Broadband and we are Our goal is to be consumers first choice for entertainment and communications.
We making similar strong progress in Sky Talk, where we have grown to well over believe that customers deserve better: better content: better products: better service a million customers.
As more customers respond to the great value and high quality and better value.
This fundamental belief underpins both our strategy and our that we offer, Sky Talk came first in seven of the 11 categories in uSwitchs 2008 operational performance.
Home Phone Customer Satisfaction Awards, including best overall satisfaction.
It is the basis for our confidence that we have both the opportunity and the capability Alongside growing demand for our products, we have made some important changes for long-term, sustainable success.
that support the quality and durability of our customer base.
With a wider range of products and a stronger value proposition than ever before, we have been able to The opportunity is substantial.
The coming together of previously adjacent market reduce the use of viewing package discounts to attract and retain customers.
As a sectors provides significant headroom for growth.
A growing consumer appetite for result, we are seeing a positive and measurable effect on the quality of new customers choice, control over viewing and connectivity is driving increasing demand across our joining Sky and improved loyalty from existing customers, with churn at its lowest level core product categories.
And consumers are rewarding trusted providers who meet for three years.
their needs for quality, value and service.
Content is our life-blood at Sky.
We are continuing to strengthen our offering through Our capability as an organisation is the basis for competitive advantage.
The strength investment in distinctive programming that makes us stand out and encourages people of our franchise and our position today as the choice of more than one in three to join Sky.
Alongside our successful partnerships with third-party broadcasters, we families in the UK and Ireland provides a strong foundation.
The combination of our continue to develop our wholly-owned channels in sports, news, movies, entertainment brand, product set, content offering and service infrastructure sets us apart in a and the arts.
For example, weve recently renewed our agreement for coverage of the competitive marketplace.
UEFA Champions League and will offer more live games than ever before.
Sky One, our agship entertainment channel, goes from strength to strength with outstanding Continued execution against this opportunity and capability will deliver an expanded original commissions such as Ross Kemp in Afghanistan, The Colour of Magic, Dont customer base, top-line revenue growth and accelerated financial returns, creating Forget The Lyrics and Gladiators, alongside compelling US drama like Lost, 24 and significant value for shareholders.
Sky News continues to set standards for coverage of breaking news, winning the Royal Television Societys News Channel of the Year Award for the sixth Looking back, 2008 has been a year of significant achievement, particularly against the time in the last seven years, and we are further broadening Skys appeal through our backdrop of a more challenging consumer environment.
We have grown our customer content offering with Sky Arts, the UKs only channel dedicated to all areas of the arts.
base in line with our targets, reaching 8.98 million in June: we have established ourselves as the fastest growing broadband and home phone provider in the UK: we Customer service is as integral a part of the Sky experience as putting good content on have seen record new product take-up, in particular with Sky : and the actions we screen.
Our contact centres already handle over one million calls from customers a have taken to improve the quality of our customer base have delivered a step-change week, and our eld engineers make over four million home visits a year.
More customers are choosing Sky, they are taking more products from us aspiration is not just to set the benchmark for the best customer experience in our and they are staying with us for longer.
own industry, but the best in any industry.
There is no doubt that the consumer environment is more challenging today than it Financially, we are in good health and our strategy is delivering strong revenue growth has been for some time.
Against that backdrop, our business has continued to perform to almost 5 billion.
Operating profit of 724 million in the 2008 financial year was well.
No consumer business can be entirely immune to an economic downturn and it impacted by a number of expected cost headwinds, but we remain on track for our is impossible to predict with certainty the effects the current environment will have.
After passing the peak of investment in the roll-out of broadband and telephony, However, there are a number of factors specic to Sky that mean we are well placed we are focused on delivering enhanced profitability in line with our 2010 margin relative to other consumer businesses.
These include the strong, high-quality business targets.
We have a greater opportunity  we arewell that we have today, the value of our product set and the fact that there is good positioned to create significant value for shareholders.
headroom for growth in all of the segments in which we operate.
Our ability to save customers money through broadband and telephony, investment in products like Sky We believe that a successful and sustainable business is a responsible business: one that improve loyalty and satisfaction, focus on quality in our acquisition and retention that sees the bigger picture.
We are committed to making a positive contribution to strategy, and leadership in customer service are all important in this context.
society, embracing the opportunity to work with our staff and customers to tackle the issues they care about.
We have focused on three areas in particular where we believe One of the greatest opportunities for our business is the chance to offer more products Sky can make a real difference: encouraging participation in sport: making the arts to the homes that choose Sky.
We are already seeing positive trends, with over more accessible and helping to tackle climate change.
five million product sales during the year, a threefold increase over the last four years.
This demand is driving new customer acquisition and helping to cement customer We have already reduced our direct carbon footprint by 27%, and have worked with loyalty.
Over half of our customers now take more than one product from us, and for our customers to reduce their energy consumption.
One year after launch, our auto new customers this percentage is even greater.
There remains a substantial standby feature a world first has been downloaded to more than four million opportunity for growth with only around one in ten of our customers taking all three Sky and Sky HD boxes, saving our customers 12 million on their electricity bills as of TV, broadband and telephony from Sky.
well as 52,000 tonnes of CO. To help make the arts accessible and appreciated by all, 2 we have partnered with a number of leading arts organisations and events across the Sky puts our customers in charge of what they watch and when they watch it.
It has UK, including English National Opera ENO, English National Ballet and the Hay established itself as the gold standard for digital video recorders and has been a key Festival.
Our work with ENO has allowed thousands of Sky customers to attend driver of demand.
This year, an additional 1.3 million homes chose Sky and it is now performances for just 5, and hundreds of local schoolchildren have been offered in more than 3.7 million households or 41% of our customer base.
It is helping us educational workshops.
Through our recently announced partnership with British attract new customers with strong product advocacy, and high customer satisfaction Cycling, we want to help one of Britains most successful Olympic teams achieve even means that Sky customers tend to stay with us for longer.
The growth of Sky is more success, develop the next generation of talent and inspire millions of people to having a transformative effect on the way our customers watch TV, with an estimated get on their bikes.
Our Sky Sports Living for Sport programme now in its fifth year 4.4 billion instances of time-shifting over the last year.
Our Sky HD service takes this has helped more than 17,000 students at risk of opting out of school life to reach technology to a new level, with all of the well-loved features of Sky combined with a their full potential.
We are proud of the contribution weve made in each of these new high denition quality of TV experience providing us with a good platform for areas and are committed to building on these foundations in the years ahead.
That culture has been part of Sky since the very start.
Its from that culture that weve derived our success: in backing our belief that peoplewanted  viewing: in raising the bar for the way in which sports and news are covered on TV: in developing innovative products like Sky and Sky HD which transform the television experience: and in building a broadband and telephony business to scale from scratch.
That capability within the organisation is growing every day.
Our people are the key to our success and I would like to pay tribute to them for their hard work, creativity, dynamism and dedication.
All of us at Sky will continue to focus our efforts on the things that we know really matter to our customers: great content, great value and great service.
We see huge potential for continued growth and value creation and we believe we are better placed than ever to deliver.
