Chief Executives statement Looking back, 2008 has been a year of significant Our goal is to be consumers achievement, particularly against the backdrop of a more first choice for entertainment challenging consumer environment.
We have grown our customer base in line with our targets, reaching 8.98 and communications.
We believe million in June: we have established ourselves as the fastest growing broadband and home phone provider that customers deserve better: in the UK: we have seen record new product take-up, better content: better products: in particular with Sky : and the actions we have taken to improve the quality of our customer base have better service: and better delivered a step-change in churn.
This fundamental belief choosing Sky, they are taking more products from us and they are staying with us for longer.
underpins both our strategy and our operational performance.
There is no doubt that the consumer environment is more challenging today than it has been for some time.
It is the basis for our confidence that we have both Against that backdrop, our business has continued to the opportunity and the capability for long-term, perform well.
No consumer business can be entirely sustainable success.
immune to an economic downturn and it is impossible to predict with certainty the effects the current The opportunity is substantial.
The coming together of environment will have.
However, there are a number previously adjacent market sectors provides significant of factors specific to Sky that mean we are well placed headroom for growth.
A growing consumer appetite for relative to other consumer businesses.
These include choice, control over viewing and connectivity is driving the strong, high-quality business that we have today, increasing demand across our core product categories.
the value of our product set and the fact that there And consumers are rewarding trusted providers who is good headroom for growth in all of the segments meet their needs for quality, value and service.
Our ability to save customers money through broadband and telephony, investment Jeremy Darroch Our capability as an organisation is the basis for in products like Sky that improve loyalty and Chief Executive competitive advantage.
The strength of our business satisfaction, focus on quality in our acquisition and and our position today as the choice of more than one retention strategy, and leadership in customer service in three families in the UK and Ireland provides a strong are all important in this context.
The combination of our brand, product set, content offering and service infrastructure sets us apart One of the greatest opportunities for our business is the in a competitive marketplace.
chance to offer more products to the homes that choose Sky.
We are already seeing positive trends, with over Continued execution against this opportunity and five million product sales during the year, a threefold capability will deliver an expanded customer base, increase over the last four years.
This demand is driving top-line revenue growth and accelerated financial new customer acquisition and helping to cement customer returns, creating significant value for shareholders.
Over half of our customers now take more than one product from us, and for new customers this percentage is even greater.
There remains a substantial opportunity for growth with only around one in ten of our customers taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony from Sky.
The year at a glance JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Sky announces a 125 million Sky Sports begins its biggest The Believe in better message Sky Broadband passes Sky is named among Britains Sky Box Office breaks records offer for Amstrad plc to drive ever season of FA Premier takes centre stage in Skys new the milestone of one million top three Most Admired for a pay-per-view event innovation for customers and League coverage, with 92 brand marketing campaign.
customers after just companies by Management with more than one million supply chain efficiency.
matches exclusively live and 15 months.
buys for Ricky Hatton vs more ways to watch than ever Floyd Mayweather.
before: on TV, in HD, online and on mobile phones.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 4 Annual Review 2008 Total product sales have increased threefold over the last four years.
Total product sales 2m 8, 980,000 DTH customers Sky Talk 1m Sky Broadband Sky HD Multiroom Sky 3 98,000 Sky TV Net customer additions 0m Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2003 042004 052005 06 2006 072007 08 and high customer satisfaction means that Sky customers tend to stay with us for longer.
The growth of Sky is having a transformative effect on the way Our broadband and telephony our customers watch TV, with an estimated 4.4 billion instances of time-shifting over the last year.
Our Sky HD businesses are quickly achieving service takes this technology to a new level, with all of scale.
In less than two years more the well-loved features of Sky combined with a new high definition quality of TV experience providing us than 1.6 million households have with a good platform for growth.
joined Sky Broadband and we are Our broadband and telephony businesses are quickly making similar strong progress in achieving scale.
In less than two years more than 1.6 Sky Talk, where we have grown to million households have joined Sky Broadband and we are making similar strong progress in Sky Talk, where well over a million customers.
we have grown to well over a million customers.
As more customers respond to the great value and high quality that we offer, Sky Talk came first in seven of the 11 categories in uSwitchs 2008 Home Phone Customer Sky puts our customers in charge of what they watch Satisfaction Awards, including best overall satisfaction.
It has established itself as the gold standard for digital video recorders and has been a Alongside growing demand for our products, we have key driver of demand.
This year, an additional 1.3 million made some important changes that support the quality homes chose Sky and it is now in more than 3.7 million and durability of our customer base.
With a wider range households or 41% of our customer base.
It is helping of products and a stronger value proposition than ever us attract new customers with strong product advocacy, before, we have been able to reduce the use of viewing JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE Environmental charity Global Sky News is named News The Colour of Magic attracts Sky Sports secures a new Sky Arts broadcasts coverage Sky One is named Action Plan is named as Skys Channel of the Year by the Sky Ones biggest audience three-year deal for UEFA of the Hay Festival, the UKs Entertainment Channel of charity partner for the next Royal Television Society for of 20072008 with 2.2 million Champions League rights pre-eminent literary festival.
the Year at the Broadcast three years.
the sixth time in seven years viewers for the premiere of from 2009, bringing customers Digital Channel Awards.
after winning praise for its first episode.
more live coverage on more highly polished and match days.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 5 Annual Review 2008 Chief Executives statement continued package discounts to attract and retain customers.
As a Customer service is as integral a part of the Sky result, we are seeing a positive and measurable effect on experience as putting good content on screen.
Our the quality of new customers joining Sky and improved contact centres already handle over one million calls loyalty from existing customers, with churn at its lowest from customers a week, and our field engineers make level for three years.
over four million home visits a year.
Our aspiration is not just to set the benchmark for the best customer Content is our life-blood at Sky.
We are continuing to experience in our own industry, but the best in strengthen our offering through investment in distinctive any industry.
programming that makes us stand out and encourages people to join Sky.
Alongside our successful partnerships with third-party broadcasters, we continue to develop our wholly-owned channels in sports, news, movies, Content is our life-blood at Sky.
For example, weve recently renewed our agreement for coverage of the UEFA We are continuing to strengthen Champions League and will offer more live games than ever before.
Sky One, our flagship entertainment channel, our offering through investment goes from strength to strength with outstanding in distinctive programming original commissions such as Ross Kemp in Afghanistan, The Colour of Magic, Dont Forget The Lyrics and Gladiators, that makes us stand out and alongside compelling US drama like Lost, 24 and Prison encourages people to join Sky.
Sky News continues to set standards for coverage Sky One of breaking news, winning the Royal Television Societys News Channel of the Year Award for the sixth time in the last seven years, and we are further broadening Skys appeal through our content offering with Sky Arts, the UKs only channel dedicated to all areas of the arts.
More than 40% of customers now take Sky 3KY PENETRATION OF CUSTOMER BASE Songbook: Phil Collins Sky Arts British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 6 Annual Review 2008 Churn has fallen to its lowest level for three years.
Quarterly annualised churn % 14% 54% Proportion of customers taking at least one additional product 12% 10% 4.
4bn Instances of time-shifting 8% with Sky in the last year 2005 2006 2007 2008 Financially, we are in good health and our strategy is Our work with ENO has allowed thousands of That capability within the organisation is growing every delivering strong revenue growth to almost 5 billion.
Sky customers to attend performances for just 5, day.
Our people are the key to our success and I would Operating profit of 724 million in the 2008 financial and hundreds of local schoolchildren have been like to pay tribute to them for their hard work, creativity, year was impacted by a number of expected cost offered educational workshops.
Through our recently dynamism and dedication.
All of us at Sky will continue headwinds, but we remain on track for our goals.
announced partnership with British Cycling, we want to focus our efforts on the things that we know really After passing the peak of investment in the roll-out of to help one of Britains most successful Olympic teams matter to our customers: great content, great value broadband and telephony, we are focused on delivering achieve even more success, develop the next generation and great service.
We see huge potential for continued enhanced profitability in line with our 2010 margin of talent and inspire millions of people to get on their growth and value creation and we believe we are better targets.
We have a greater opportunity for growth bikes.
Our Sky Sports Living for Sport programme now placed than ever to deliver.
than ever before and we are well positioned to create in its fifth year has helped more than 17,000 students significant value for shareholders.
at risk of opting out of school life to reach their full potential.
We are proud of the contribution weve We believe that a successful and sustainable business is made in each of these areas and are committed to One year after launch, our auto a responsible business: one that sees the bigger picture.
building on these foundations in the years ahead.
We are committed to making a positive contribution to standby feature a world first society, embracing the opportunity to work with our We challenge ourselves constantly to be a business that staff and customers to tackle the issues they care about.
is adaptable and embraces change: an organisation has been downloaded to more We have focused on three areas in particular where thats prepared to take decisions and control its own than four million Sky and Sky we believe Sky can make a real difference: encouraging destiny.
That culture has been part of Sky since the participation in sport: making the arts more accessible very start.
Its from that culture that weve derived our HD boxes, saving our customers and helping to tackle climate change.
success: in backing our belief that people wanted more 12 million on their electricity bills choice in television viewing: in raising the bar for the We have already reduced our direct carbon footprint way in which sports and news are covered on TV: in as well as 52,000 tonnes of CO. 2 by 27%, and have worked with our customers to reduce developing innovative products like Sky and Sky HD their energy consumption.
One year after launch, which transform the television experience: and in our auto standby feature a world first has been building a broadband and telephony business to downloaded to more than four million Sky and Sky HD scale from scratch.
boxes, saving our customers 12 million on their electricity bills as well as 52,000 tonnes of CO. To help 2 make the arts accessible and appreciated by all, we have partnered with a number of leading arts organisations and events across the UK, including English National Opera ENO, English National Ballet and the Hay festival.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 7 Annual Review 2008
