06 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Executive Officers review Introduction The business made good progress during 2008, delivering strong results and continuing to build a strong platform for future success.
Profit before tax increased by 40.3% to 70.3 million and earnings per share were up by 44.5% to 19.73 pence.
We have recommended a final dividend of 3.40 pence per share, up by 19.3%, giving a full year dividend of 5.70 pence per share.
John Harnett Chief Executive Officer Planning our response to the global economic downturn was an important activity in the second half of 2008.
Whilst there were few tangible signs of worsening conditions in our markets until mid-November, we decided to act early and tightened our credit criteria in October to ensure we were well positioned for tougher trading conditions.
We implemented plans to keep Our strategy headcount, capital expenditure and costs to a minimum and also took the decision that, pending more stable economic conditions, we would defer Established markets entry into any additional new markets, thereby postponing entry into the To optimise the profitability short-listed markets of India and the Ukraine.
of our established markets During 2008, we maintained a strong focus on delivering against the targets in Poland, the Czech Republic, we set out at demerger but also invested in laying foundations for future Slovakia and Hungary.
In particular, we have investigated how the business can operate 2008 pre-tax profit up 31.5% more effectively and on a much larger scale in the years to come.
This has to 106.0 million generated a programme of work to improve the business that we have called Excellence in Execution.
Developing markets Strategy We have a clear strategy that we believe will ensure that IPF continues to Bring our developing Mexican grow its profits and generate substantial shareholder value.
Our strategy is and Romanian operations simple: we intend to continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of into profit, in 2009 and 2010 our home credit business model and progressively enter and develop new respectively, and optimise their long-term performance.
emerging markets when the time is right.
Mexico: on track for profit in 2009 Each of our four strategic priorities is carefully monitored and our progress Romania: on track for profit in 2010 in meeting our long-term goals is measured against a wide range of Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Performance of every business unit is New markets reviewed formally each month.
This process is supported by a detailed KPI pack which measures financial results, trends and performance compared Move into new emerging markets where demand for credit is to expectations against more than 100 measures.
growing strongly and the market Standing alongside these we have an ongoing task to develop the people within is relatively underserved.
We will do this when the time is right and the business as well as its governance, systems and processes to support a when each market has met our fast-growing international business that will become many times larger than exacting selection criteria.
We have clear actions to ensure this task is successfully achieved.
Russia: pilot began in 2008 Excellence in Execution Our job as managers is to continually find ways to improve the quality, efficiency Manage our balance sheet and effectiveness of our business.
During this past year we have brought together To manage our balance sheet a number of initiatives into a single programme called Excellence in Execution effectively so that we are well and committed resources to ensure it can be implemented successfully.
The financed to achieve our strategic programme aims to achieve improvement in three ways.
objectives and efficiently use shareholders funds.
45.1% equity to receivables Core funding in place to October 2011
