Business Overview Business Review Corporate Responsibility Management Financial Statements Chief Executives Review In the 52 weeks ended 28 September The soft drinks market Paul Moody 2008, Britvics brands have performed The UK soft drinks market fell by 0.8% in Chief Executive extremely well, growing market volume volume over the period.
This was mainly due and value share in key categories, despite to the impact of the consumer slowdown the tough trading conditions that have and a second consecutive year of adverse been driven by the downturn in the summer weather.
The continued outperformance Though relatively resilient, the soft drinks of the market has delivered strong market has not been immune to the revenue growth of 29.3% to 926.5m slowdown in consumer spending in 2008. including a first full 52-week contribution In context, food and soft drinks currently from Britvic Ireland of 200.7m.
GB account for only 9% of UK household and International revenues of 725.8m expenditure.
Within that less than 40% showed good growth of 4.8% in the of dry grocery spend is on soft drinks.
Consumers this year traded from premium We have continued to deliver on our pointinto value soft drinks categories, such as into of-purchase and innovation strategies, cola and juice drinks and away from more delivering healthy growth in revenue whilst expensive price-point categories such as proactively managing the cost base.
Group smoothies and pure juice.
Squash has seen operating profit is up 20.9%, while profit an increase in penetration, suggesting that after tax PAT and earnings per share some people are moving away from the EPS are both up by more than 20%.
These more expensive soft drink categories and strong results showed resilience and were back towards more staple offerings.
delivered despite repeated poor summer The move out of carbonates by UK weather and tougher trading conditions, consumers experienced in the first half combined with the toughest raw material of 2006, was again countered in 2008 and energy cost pricing environment for by the gradual return into carbonates by many years.
consumers taking a rational and balanced Free cash flow was 66.2m, 0.9m ahead approach to their soft drinks repertoire.
This of the underlying prior year number, driven was accentuated by consumers looking for by the ongoing focus on disciplined cash and value propositions, particularly in large-pack capital expenditure management.
Return carbonates and resulted in the carbonates on Invested Capital ROIC including Britvic market increasing in volume terms by Ireland has increased by 70 basis points 1.4%, driven by the cola and glucose reflecting the strong management stimulant categories.
of the Groups asset and cost base.
The 29.3% Board is proposing a final dividend per share of 8.8p bringing the full year dividend per Growth in revenue share to 12.6p, an increase of nearly 15% on the prior year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 13 We have continued to deliver on our innovation, point-of-purchase and innovation strategies, delivering healthy growth in revenue whilst proactively managing the cost base.
The stills category declined by 2.7% Britvics strategy this year.
A notable sub-category in Management action has focused on four material decline was plain water, which main areas: was adversely impacted by the poor 8.1% Supporting and growing our core brands summer weather, the environmental and Britvic GBs six core brands are Pepsi, 7UP, sustainability debate and by the downturn Robinsons squash, Tango, Fruit Shoot and Increase in Britvic GB in consumer spending.
They are the key profit drivers of our notable growth within ambient juice and current business and therefore the brands stills volume sports drinks, whilst dairy and smoothies to which we allocate greatest resource.
accelerated their declines over the course of Other supporting brands help to leverage the year.
customer relationships with scale and Against this general market background, account wins.
We continue to invest in our Britvic has outperformed the market in its strong total portfolio of brands through both key categories during the period: innovation and media, to ensure that they are preferred by consumers.
Examples of The cola market was up by 3.7% in our successful core GB brand performances volume, while Pepsi outperformed this are shown below: with an 8.1% market volume increase resulting in a 0.9 percentage point The Pepsi brand has continued its volume increase in market volume share and a and value share gains of the cola market, 1.2 percentage point increase in market an increase of 0.9 and 1.2 percentage value share.
points on last year respectively.
The success enjoyed by the brand in the period reflects The squash market was down 3.0% strong promotional execution across all key in volume terms.
Robinsons squash customers and the highly successful Pepsi outperformed this with a 6.5% market Max Kicks campaign that, in conjunction with volume increase resulting in a 3.8 the successful investment in trade-ready percentage point increase in market display units, has led to real success for the volume share and a 1.5 percentage point brand this year.
The growth in market share increase in market value share.
was also achieved against a background of continued competitor activity and with no The childrens on-the-go market was up by adverse impact on average realised price just 0.3% in volumes terms, while core ARP despite our growing presence Fruit Shoot outperformed this with a 14.7% in the discounters sector.
Our close market volume increase resulting in a 3.9 working relationship with the brand percentage point increase in market volume owner, PepsiCo, has been instrumental share and a 3.2 percentage point increase in in achieving this performance.
During the period Britvic GB stills volumes were up 8.1%, and GB carbonates volumes were up 4.2%.
14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Responsibility Management Financial Statements Robinsons squash has consolidated its Our International business has again number one position even further with achieved high-growth results, with overall volume and value share gains in the revenue growth of 21%, and an improved squash market, an increase of 3.8 and 1.5 ARP, up 4.9%.
During the year Robinsons 21% percentage points on last year respectively.
increased its revenue by 94% in the Nordic Robinsons best ever Wimbledon, plus region driven by increased distribution, a Overall increase in excellent brand equity programmes and instrong advertising campaign in Denmark store execution mean that the seventh most and Finland, heavyweight in-store sampling International revenue valuable grocery brand in the UK goes from campaigns in all three markets, and the strength to strength and is very well-placed launch of Robinsons premium squash.
In for what could be a tougher year ahead.
the Netherlands Fruit Shoot has established Share gains are a continuing consequence itself as the fastest growing kids juice brand, of the large-pack production facility which and the Go Explore advertising campaign has unlocked our ability to drive large-pack received a prestigious industry EFFIE award.
performance through increased promotional Beyond these successes we have continued competitiveness.
In the tail-end of 2007 to expand Britvics footprint in the key tourist Robinsons also launched the re-designed no areas of Spain and the Mediterranean, and artificial colours and flavours family squash have achieved early success in the Middle range with the Raise them on Robinsons East and India.
These markets represent a campaign, aimed at ensuring that the brand strong opportunity for future development retains its authoritative category-leading and growth.
This year the brand sponsors the BBC Sports Personality of the Year event for the second time, after a very successful first year.
Again, the sponsorship is supported by an on-pack promotion across everyday squash in the first quarter of the year.
In Ireland, core brands have played a significant part in the robust performance of the business in a challenging trading environment.
7UP retains its position as the number two soft drinks brand in the market, whilst core brands such as Club, Miwadi and Ballygowan have been complemented this year by the full integration into the portfolio of Robinsons squash, Fruit Shoot and J2O.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 15 The two major new innovation launches this year were Gatorade and Drench, and both have performed extremely well.
Innovating developing new products There were a number of other smaller A number of new brands, brand extensions supporting launches during the year, such and new packaging concepts were launched as Pepsi Raw and Lime Grove.
Again in the year in Britain, with the aim of these successful launches helped build 79% establishing Britvic in the growth segments both momentum and Britvics record of of the GB market.
All were launched as great innovation.
Gatorade take-home planned and all are performing in line with Britvic has agreed to sign a further Exclusive our high expectations.
Bottling Agreement EBA in Great Britain distribution level The two major new innovation launches this with PepsiCo for the Lipton Iced Tea brand, year were Gatorade and Drench, and both which will follow similar business model have performed extremely well.
In the 12 weeks to 8 October 2008, Managing efficiency improving margins Gatorade achieved distribution levels of: and free cash flow Despite the tough cost environment in 2008, 79% in take-home including all we continued to drive costs out major multiples.
45% distribution in convenience We continue to drive our Product Value and impulse.
Optimisation PVO programme and have delivered a further 2m of savings in the year Availability in over 2,400 points of sweat in GB, in addition to the 2m delivered in gyms, leisure centres, sports clubs each of 2006 and 2007. including Esporta and Total Fitness.
Added to this we realised initial Continued investment in high profile incremental annualised savings of 3m as platforms and the introduction of a new a consequence of the outsourcing of the blackcurrant flavour are set to further secondary distribution network and vending entrench Gatorades position in the and chiller re-manufacturing operations.
We market in 2009. anticipate a total saving of 5-6m by the end Drench also had a strong start as it moved of financial year 2009.
We have also realised into the take-home grocery sector: the early planned cost savings programme in Ireland.
This includes the closure of the Awareness from 8% to 35% in Cork factory in early 2009 and the production four weeks.
of Robinsons squash for the Irish market in Huge internet interest 2.5m YouTube hits.
Dublin from the same time.
Distribution steadily building in both We also continued to underpin our Group take-home grocery and convenience performance by an effective management and impulse.
response to the difficult trading conditions by flexing our operations and spend.
16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Responsibility Management Financial Statements Our focus on managing costs and driving efficiency has been relentless.
Expansion into Europe the first full year Despite the unprecedented economic of Britvic Ireland conditions in Ireland, the business Britvic Ireland was acquired in August 2007 fundamentals remain strong: on the rationale of strong potential top-line 30 Enhanced post-acquisition market share growth and an exceptional synergies case.
value : number one in the licensed trade During 2008 the sharp downturn in the and number two in grocery.
Basis point increase in Irish economy has adversely impacted on Enhanced PepsiCo relationship revenue growth.
GB and International successful pilot launch of H2OH!
Though Britvic Ireland continues to hold or operating profit margin Successfully leveraging cross maintain share in key categories, the effect territory brands: of the Irish recession has had adverse Numbers pre-exceptionals.
impacts on both the take-home and licensed Robinsons takes Britvic Ireland on-premise markets, and therefore on squash share to over 70%.
However, Successful full launch of Fruit Shoot with the strong management team, refined and J2O.
infrastructure and exceptional brands, Britvic Ireland produced a robust performance and Alignment of business model and is well placed to capture future growth in the systems with Britvic GB.
In euro terms, this business made 7.
6m investment completed at the EBITA of 19m in 2007.
Despite the very Kylemore production facility in Dublin.
difficult trading conditions in Ireland, this business has contributed EBITA of 21m Summary in 2008, a growth very much facilitated by We have grown market share across the synergy benefits now available to Britvic all of our key categories with a strong Ireland as part of the larger Group.
performance from our core and seed brands despite difficult trading conditions We recently upgraded the synergies case to throughout the year.
15m by the end of financial year 2009, with a new target of 21m by the end of financial Our focus on managing costs and driving year 2011.
These additional synergies were efficiency has been relentless, and in based largely off the implementation of addition to the positive contributions SAP in Ireland from the second quarter from our Business Transformation and of financial year 2009.
PVO programmes, the outsourcing of our secondary retail distribution network has been implemented in line with our plan and expectations.
Consequently we have delivered a 30 basis point increase in GB and International operating profit margin, more than double that of our annual ambition.
