Chief Executives report I am delighted that these financial Business review We are always results once again demonstrate that Retail looking for JLT is in good shape.
They are the Trading profit m Turnover m product of a consistently good opportunities to performance across all of the Group's 233.5 50 250 improve the 45.0 operations and underline the solid, 196.8 36.6 40 200 composition and sustainable progress we have made as a Group during the past three years.
I see 2008's performance as both an 100 20 achievement and as a platform for 10 resultant benefits will be, to a 50 further progress.
Set out in the Review considerable extent, off-set by lower of Operations are fuller details of how 0 0 07 08 07 08 interest rates earned on our cash each of our business areas performed balances and the reduced economic in 2008.
Trading margin activity of our clients.
The Group today is once again 19% 19% But JLT is in good shape as financially strong with minimal net debt demonstrated by our 2008 results.
2007 2008 and committed facilities through to The current economic outlook remains 2011.
This puts us in the enviable difficult, yet, assuming no material position of not having to worry about deterioration from here, we would our funding and having access to London Market expect to make further progress in capital for strategic investments at a 2009.
Trading profit m Turnover m time when finance is generally constrained.
During 2008, the Group made progress 250 35 215.0 34.8 in implementing its key medium-term We made a number of investments in 30 194.3 200 26.5 strategic objectives.
We have 2008 but they were all effected in a 25 developed a clear articulation of these 150 planned, measured and focused way 20 objectives, providing the senior 15 and without detracting from our Group- 100 management team with a well-defined 10 wide emphasis on cost control.
50 course for the 5 We enter 2009 conscious of the development of the 0 0 07 08 07 08 challenging economic environment.
Some of these economic factors Trading margin we are facing are actually positive for JLT, such as the weakness of 14% 16% sterling against many other 2007 2008 currencies and the potential for insurance rate increases as we go through 2009.
However, Employee Benefits the likelihood is that any Turnover m Trading profit m 100 20 87.6 81.5 15.1 80 13.7 15 60 10 40 5 20 0 0 07 08 07 08 Trading margin 17% 17% 2007 2008 6 JLT Annual Report 2008 Operating & Financial Review Group turnover Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits 84% 16% London Market Retail 40% 44% Jardine Lloyd Lloyd & JLT Re Europe Australia Asia Latin Canada Insurance Thompson Ltd Partners New Zealand America Management REINSURANCE SPECIALITY WHOLESALE AVIATION 22% 9% 9% 13% 15% 7% 4% 4% 1% collaboration is made all the easier to improve the balance between In this report I will seek to because of the size of JLT compared London Market operations and the summarise the five elements of with our larger worldwide competitors.
geographically diverse retail JLT's medium-term strategy.
When all the divisions trade strongly, businesses serving mid-market To maintain and enhance the as they did in 2008, the results, both corporates.
balance of the Group's financial and in the morale throughout To take full advantage of our activities the Group, are impressive.
international reach and Operating through the Groups five Nonetheless, we are always looking representation divisions, speciality, wholesale, for opportunities to improve the As well as supporting the expansion of reinsurance, retail and employee composition and balance of the our owned businesses around the benefits gives the Group a secure and Group.
world, we also have ambitious productive balance.
Insurance broking expectations for the JLT International There is a continuous search for is, of course, impacted by the cyclical Network, which offers a global service appropriate bolt-on acquisitions which, nature of insurance markets as well as proposition to multi-national merged into existing strong JLT Group by the general economic environments companies that choose JLT to service operations, can make a significant in which our clients operate.
The their insurance needs in preference to contribution at both the revenue and breadth of our activities - including the worldwide brokers.
Acquisitions can also Employee Benefits which is largely demonstrated that ownership of a broaden capability and improve the unaffected by insurance cycles and broker in every country in the world is balance.
The acquisition of Harman whose business is substantially not necessary for a global offering - Wicks & Swayne, in June 2008, retained on a multi-year basis - affords indeed, poor communication and continued the strategic expansion of us considerable protection from inconsistent quality of delivery often JLT Re and substantially strengthened excessive cyclical movements.
suggest that it is a prescription for a its position in non-marine treaty Our geographical spread also gives us less than first-rate service.
2009 is the fourth year of JLT reduced exposure to local economic where we do not own operations, Re's initial five-year plan.
The Group or market movements.
JLT's strategy is to select and to work continues to seek to expand this actively with the best independent Balance is not just of defensive value, business area and we are confident brokers and, over the entire network, continuous collaboration and crossthat we will be able to do so.
We are to manage and orchestrate the fertilisation between operating also enthusiastic to continue the delivery of first-class client service divisions is a hallmark of the JLT expansion of our Employee Benefits using the optimal combination of Group and enables us to optimise business in the UK and internationally owned and associated businesses.
service to our clients and to derive and to grow the overall scale of our significant benefit ourselves.
This retail activities around the world so as JLT Annual Report 2008 7 Chief Executives report The JLT global service team has To build upon JLT's position To deliver our services as considerable experience in this as a leading provider of risk efficiently as possible and to orchestrating role.
We are transfer services to US quality levels on a par with the continuously looking to enhance the insureds very best in the insurance International Network and to develop broking industry worldwide The JLT Group ranks among the our relationship with our partners.
In world's biggest brokers of US risk but, Many of the recent initiatives in which some cases it will be appropriate for since the sale of our US retail JLT is investing have been technology JLT to be an investor in partner operations in 2006, the Group has no facilitated, examples include companies as in the investment in retail broking businesses on the JLTOnline, Thistle Underwriters and SIACI and now SIACI Saint Honor in ground in the USA.
JLT works in the new online pensions and benefits France.
This has been both a financial partnership with independent US offering.
Using technology to improve success and, increasingly, a fruitful brokers, providing them with access operational quality and increase business partnership for both SIACI to international insurance markets, to efficiency is central to our Saint Honor and JLT.
our specialist skills and to our development plans.
Far from 'dumbing International Network.
This down', this enables us to clarify the To develop mutual collaboration enables them to retain role of the adviser by defining and, reinforcement between the clients with risk transfer requirements where appropriate, automating roles retail operations and the that cannot be met economically in and processes.
Advisers will be freed centres of specialism the domestic insurance market.
These from tasks that do not fully use their clients would otherwise effectively be skills and allowed to focus on what JLT owned retail businesses in 36 obliged to transfer some or all of their they do best and what adds most countries around the world serve the insurance business to one of the value to the client.
full range of large corporate, midworldwide brokers.
market and smaller commercial clients This investment in process definition on a day-to-day basis, placing The goal for JLT now is to take and automation is being pursued on substantial premium volumes into local advantage of our unrivalled an international basis.
They also originate relationships with US independent approaches and software platforms 'bigger ticket' business, particularly in brokers and our international are being used wherever practicable the Group's industry specialist areas, speciality, wholesale and retail and development investments are such as construction, energy, marine capabilities, to market those being utilised in multiple countries.
or aviation, the placing of which capabilities in a more concerted way, Each of these groups of actions is requires access to the international to underline more clearly the value we made possible only because of the markets in London and Europe, add to US domestic brokers and their strength of JLT's financial position, Bermuda or Singapore.
To win this clients and to accelerate the growth of with minimal net debt, committed bigger ticket business, close our business originated in the USA.
medium-term borrowing facilities and collaboration is essential between the Promoting our strengths to the US the risks associated with final salary local company and the appropriate marketplace, operating through US pension schemes now well defined specialist team, often, but not always, independent brokers, is a key element and, wherever practicable, based in London.
The smooth in the Group's strategy, bearing in circumscribed.
operation of this collaborative mind that the US insureds represent relationship is core to the JLT model - JLT's is an incremental strategy.
around one half of the world's total and we are always looking for We are well placed, the task now premium volumes.
Where facing the management team is to possible, JLT's specialist teams also take advantage of the strength of our look to support our partners, the position to develop the very best members of the International Network international group of risk specialists that are not subsidiaries within the and employee benefits consultants, Group, to generate such specialist attractive to clients and practitioners business - and this further reinforces alike because of its non-bureaucratic the ties that bind the network together.
approach and single-minded focus on serving clients.
8 JLT Annual Report 2008 Operating & Financial Review We fully recognise the need for Initiatives such as these will help to We believe that this approach puts change, both to improve the business accelerate organic growth throughout JLT in the best position to generate we have and to respond to structural the Group.
Ideas for similar ventures sustainable growth with the right changes in the marketplaces in which continue to emerge from the Group's balance of risk and financial we are an adviser, service provider businesses and many of them will be advantage.
We have a series of supported and pursued.
However, initiatives under way, from the ICAPtaking the Group as a whole, our JLT joint venture in London to Clear course is well set.
We shall always be Sky, the newly-launched Canadian alive to new opportunities but we are underwriting agency business, serving unlikely to propose wholesale changes the needs of aboriginal communities of direction or acquisitions on such a and co-owned with those scale that the whole structure of the communities.
Group needs to be revised.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive 23rd March 2009 Group Executive Committee 1 Duncan Howorth 8 John Lloyd CEO, JLT UK Employee Benefits Group Chairman and CEO, Lloyd & Partners Ltd 2 Adrian Girling 9 Brian Carpenter CEO, Jardine Lloyd Thompson - Europe Chairman and CEO, Asia Pacific 3 Andrew Agnew 10 Vyvienne Wade Chairman, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd Chairman, JLT Insurance Management, CEO, Latin America operations and Group 4 Robert Potter Legal Director Group HR Strategy Director 11 Dominic Burke 5 Martin Hiller Group Chief Executive CEO, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd 12 Jim Rush 6 Mark Drummond Brady Group Finance Director 4 2 5 6 International Chairman of Risk & Insurance 3 1 7 and Deputy Chairman Jardine Lloyd 13 William Nabarro Thompson Ltd Commercial Director and International 12 13 11 10 9 Chairman, Employee Benefits, 8 7 Alan Griffin Chairman, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Chairman and CEO, JLT Reinsurance UK Ltd Brokers Ltd Board Director JLT Annual Report 2008 9
