This bolt-on acquisition has provided the opportunity to extend their Chief product range into our existing business.
At the end of June we purchased Worldpack which is a Netherlands based business with Executives 2007 revenue of a19 million and a leading distributor throughout Benelux of promotional packaging and point-of-sale items for the review non-food retail sector.
In July we acquired A&E Russell which had revenue of 21 million in 2007 and supplies a broad range of personal protection equipment and related products throughout Michael Roney Scotland and England.
In August we Chief Executive announced two acquisitions in Spain which 23 February 2009 have strengthened and broadened our presence in that country after our initial Operating performance of the translation effect of our borrowings in step in 2007.
Hicosa, which is based in The Group once again had a successful year Barcelona and is principally engaged in the foreign currencies following the weakening in 2008, despite the deterioration of world of sterling, particularly in the second half of distribution of cleaning and hygiene products economies, due to a combination of organic to a variety of customers, complements the year.
A further consequence of the sharp growth, positive acquisition impact in both decline in the value of sterling late in the year our existing Spanish cleaning and hygiene new and existing geographies and the benefit business, Iberlim.
Revenue in 2007 was was that the net debt to EBITDA ratio increased of currency translation.
Furthermore the to 2.8 times as net debt is translated at a6 million.
Marca, which is based in strong cash flow of the Group continued as Cartagena, supplies personal protection the closing exchange rates and EBITDA is we converted 92% of our operating profit calculated using the average exchange rates equipment to redistributors throughout Spain into cash.
In this review all references to and had revenue of a21 million in 2007. for the year.
Using the closing exchange rates operating profit are to operating profit before for both net debt and EBITDA would have intangible amortisation.
We remain committed to our strategy of resulted in a ratio of 2.4 times which is consistent with the level of the previous year.
focusing on our strengths and consolidating Overall revenue increased 17% to 4,177.3 the markets in which we compete through million and operating profit rose 15% to Since there has been a significant impact from both organic and acquisition growth.
280.5 million with currency translation strengthening foreign currencies, principally accounting for between 8% and 9% of the US dollar and the euro, the operations, Prospects these increases.
The operating profit margin In the countries where we operate the 2009 including the relevant growth rates, are declined slightly from 6.8% to 6.7%.
reviewed below at constant exchange rates economic environment is expected to be more challenging than 2008.
While this may put to remove the impact of these currency In North America revenue and operating movements.
Changes in the level of revenue pressure on underlying sales it may also profit rose by 12% and 9% respectively due present us with opportunities to develop the and profits at constant exchange rates have to the second half impact of stronger organic been calculated by retranslating the results Group further.
In North America the positive growth and the strengthening of the US dollar.
impact of new customer wins and additional for 2007 at the average exchange rates used Although the profitability in UK & Ireland in for 2008. business with existing accounts should the second half suffered as a result of the increase the level of organic revenue growth significant deterioration in the macroeconomic Acquisitions from 2008, albeit with some mix-driven margin environment, revenue and operating profit for pressure.
In spite of new client wins in UK & The cost of acquisitions during 2008 the full year rose by 11% and 5% respectively was 123 million with the Group making Ireland, the very difficult economic situation principally resulting from the positive impact is likely to continue to put pressure on sales investments in six countries including a of recent acquisitions.
In Continental Europe significant first step into Brazil.
We also thereby limiting the potential for growth in both revenue and operating profit grew 2009.
Growth in Continental Europe is announced two acquisitions in Spain strongly, up 34%, due to organic growth, and one acquisition in each of the UK, expected to be lower as recent acquisitions are acquisition activity during 2007 and 2008 and fully integrated and the pressure on underlying Australia, Germany and the Netherlands.
the significant strengthening of the euro.
In the Rest of the World Rest of the World experienced a 50% increase good growth is expected.
In January we completed the acquisition in revenue while operating profit rose 63%, of Gnter Guest Supplies, a German based largely due to our acquisition of profit Cap The current value of sterling is considerably business with revenue in 2007 of a9 million in Brazil in February, but also as a result of which services the hotel market throughout weaker than the average rate for 2008 and, continued strong performance in Australasia should the current spot rates continue, Europe with guest amenity products.
February we entered the promising Brazilian there will be a significantly greater positive translation impact on revenue and profits in market with the acquisition of profit Cap, a So Basic earnings per share were 44.5p, up Paulo based business with seven branches 2009 than in 2008.
Adjusted earnings per share, after throughout the country and revenue of R$118 eliminating the effect of intangible amortisation, million in 2007.
It is a leading national supplier Even though the global economies have were 52.7p, an increase of 17%.
Currency continued to deteriorate, the Board expects of personal protection equipment to the translation contributed 8% of this increase.
industrial, processor, construction, retail and that our market leading positions in relatively Return on average operating capital continued resilient sectors and the positive impact of mining sectors.
In April we announced the at a consistently high level of 57%.
Based in Sydney the currency will enable the Group to continue to develop positively.
Our strong financial business had revenue of A$32 million in After strong operating cash flow, partly offset the year ended June 2007 and is principally position and highly cash generative business by expenditure on acquisitions, net debt rose along with diverse sources of funding will engaged in the distribution of catering by 203.1 million to 870.7 million, principally equipment and supplies to the hotel, allow us to take advantage of appropriate due to an increase of 168.9 million as a result opportunities as they arise.
restaurant and catering sectors throughout 06 Chief Executives review Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 2.7 2.0 2.0 08 08 07 6.7 6.7 6.8 08 08 07 6.6 6.6 6.8 08 08 07 197 12 123 3 08 08 07 225 15 151 1 08 08 07 ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH % Increase in revenue for the year excluding the impact of currency and current year acquisitions but including a pro rata part year in respect of prior year acquisitions.
Planned revenue reductions in prior year acquisitions reduced the underlying organic revenue growth in 2008 by 0.3% from 2.3%.
PROFIT MARGIN % Ratio of operating profit before intangible amortisation to revenue.
PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS % Profit margin excluding the impact of currency and current year acquisitions but including a pro rata part year in respect of prior year acquisitions.
ACQUISITION SPEND m Consideration paid and payable, together with net debt assumed, in respect of businesses acquired during the year including any adjustments relating to acquisitions made in prior years.
ANNUALISED REVENUE FROM ACQUISITIONS m Foodservice Estimated revenue which would have been contributed by acquisitions made during the year if such acquisitions essentials had been completed at the beginning of the relevant year.
We provide everyday foodservice items that our customers need for the successful running of their businesses.
Our products range from crockery and appliances for hotels and restaurants to a wide variety of disposable items such as napkins, cups and stirrers for the catering trade.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review 07 Grocery essentials We supply supermarkets, grocery stores and convenience stores with products which they do not sell but are essential for their everyday operations, including counter service and take out packaging as well as stationery and cleaning and hygiene supplies.
08 Chief Executives review Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 North 3% 69.5% Revenue Return on average at constant exchange rates operating capital America In North America revenue rose 3% at constant bakeries and large take home meal processors label line has allowed us to become more exchange rates to 2,055.1 million as a result as well as the protein processors.
Our logistics competitive against low end competitors and of the second half impact of new customer programmes, combined with our broad converters in the marketplace.
We continued wins and additional penetration of existing product offering of personal protection to invest in infrastructure in China that will accounts.
Ongoing pressures on our customers equipment, operating supplies and packaging allow us to source and consolidate products due to the continued weak economic items, have created new sales opportunities in the region more efficiently and to manage environment and increases in fuel costs with large national and global accounts.
Our the quality control of the manufacturing affected our results leaving operating profit ability to service customers on a global basis processes of our suppliers.
is a major benefit of our programmes.
Operating cost management remains an Our grocery business, which remains our Although we are operating in a difficult trading ongoing focus.
We recently consolidated largest sector, has developed a variety of environment, we have continued to make several operations in the North East of the logistics and product solutions to meet the inroads into the non-food retail sector.
During USA that not only will reduce our operating needs of our customers during these difficult the year we successfully secured a national expenses, but will provide a more effective times.
Our leading position in this market has distribution programme with a major retailer.
platform to service our customer base.
been strengthened further by new account Another national retail customer has recently We should also reap further cost benefits wins on the back of enhanced programmes recognised our value and innovation as their as we continue to implement our information that assist our customers with inventory Supplier of the Year due in part to our high fill technology initiatives in our warehouses and management, working capital, cost control rates, product selection and responsiveness for our transportation fleet and sales force, and sustainability issues.
thereby improving our overall efficiency.
Our redistribution business, R3, has also With the recent addition of jan san and Environmental concerns continue to be continued to grow, particularly with foodservice foodservice lines for breakrooms and a driving force where our focus addresses and jan san distributors.
We have expanded cafeterias, we anticipate expanding our safety three major areas of our business: products: into larger accounts by establishing supply business.
We also plan to increase our import warehousing: and transportation.
We are relationships with major buying groups.
working with our suppliers to develop Suppliers, by increasing purchase order packaging solutions to meet the needs Our business serving the convenience minimums, have effectively given us greater of our customers.
These include a new opportunities to grow with our distributor store sector performed well as we grew line of compostable foodservice products.
with both new and current customers.
customers as they seek to manage their We continue to add motion sensors and new working capital more efficiently.
In addition, We are particularly targeting small and local lighting systems to our warehouses that can chains that benefit from our logistics and our jan san initiatives have continued to significantly reduce our energy consumption.
progress allowing us to purchase effectively marketing programmes.
Within our truck fleet, engine governors have at the volumes necessary to achieve optimum been set to reduce engine idle time and price points while being able to market and Over the last year, we have continued to limit maximum speeds to improve fuel strengthen our partnerships with our strategic distribute these products in a manner that consumption.
Additionally, we have added meets our customers needs.
These efforts have focused not hybrid fuel consumption vehicles to our only on product offerings and programmes, expanded our catalogues and promotional fleet and plan to expand this initiative.
literature and provided more selling tools to but also on sales training and synergistic sales and marketing efforts.
Together with our sales representatives.
Although the business faces ongoing these suppliers we have identified joint sales economic challenges and competitive targets in all sectors and have established We continued to expand within the food pressures, we are well positioned to pursue processor industry.
It is anticipated that programmes that allow us to track and the opportunities that arise in each of monitor our progress.
market demand in this sector will continue our sectors while continuing to reduce to grow as consumers look for healthy, quick operating costs.
We have also seen success with new products serve meal alternatives that require innovative packaging solutions.
Our efforts have focused introduced through our international sourcing and import operation.
An additional private on fresh cut produce processors, specialised Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review 09 UK & 10% 56.0% Revenue Return on average at constant exchange rates operating capital Ireland Despite a significant weakening of the goods, mostly sourced from Asia, came under We acquired A&E Russell in July, which economy as the year progressed, the pressure due to lower sales volumes and increased our presence in Scotland, and have integration of acquisitions from 2007 and the cost impact of the stronger US dollar.
started to integrate the business which has led 2008, together with a number of account to a number of synergies being achieved.
wins, enabled revenue for the year as a whole The healthcare business progressed with the to grow by 10% at constant exchange rates continued development of Southern Syringe In vending, the overall business has to 1,100.0 million.
Although operating profit where we completed the implementation of slowed significantly since the half year, declined in the second half compared to our IT system and integrated the supply chain due principally to cutbacks in the corporate 2007, the full year was up 4% at constant of our original medical supplies business.
sector, leading to disappointing results.
In January 2009 we rebranded Southern We continued with the integration of Coffee Syringe as Bunzl Healthcare Supplies and Point, closing several warehouses and Within our horeca hotel, restaurant and Supply Chain Solutions.
Care Shop, the the head office and reducing the number catering business, market demand for leading care home distribution business of personnel.
We also commenced the catering equipment fell as the economy acquired in December 2007, has performed implementation of a new IT system within weakened and there were fewer new openings to our expectations and has now also been the combined business to increase the but we achieved a number of significant integrated.
During the year we relocated efficiency of our operations.
national account gains for both catering the Glasgow branch to our distribution centre disposables and equipment within the leisure, at Cumbernauld.
The Irish business saw reduced demand hotel, restaurant and pub sectors.
This as the economy there entered recession continued into the last quarter and a number Our cleaning and safety business grew ahead of the UK but we benefited from of significant accounts will start in early 2009. with improved profitability.
After implementing the acquisition of both Irish Merchants In August we relocated our North West branch a new IT system in 2007, our cleaning and Rafferty in the fourth quarter of 2007. to be nearer our customer base, improve and hygiene operations secured new As the integration has proceeded we have efficiencies and reduce vehicle mileage.
customers and transferred existing accounts reorganised the business to prepare for the onto eCommerce solutions.
This has allowed next phase of its development.
Although we experienced a decline in us to reduce our central telesales personnel plastic carrier bag volumes driven by retailers and switch others to proactive selling.
activities to reduce consumers usage, We also opened a new branch which replaced our retail supplies business, supplying a two smaller locations.
We reacted to the consolidated range of goods not for resale, decline in the construction market by reducing had another strong year and grew sales headcount in our safety business and entering by winning new customers and additional the food processor market where we had product categories.
Revenue and gross some significant account wins which gives margins on paper bags and luxury packaging us a platform to grow within this sector.
Healthcare essentials We are a leading supplier of medical disposables to the healthcare sector in the UK.
Our product range includes the essentials used in hospitals, health centres and care homes such as face masks, examination gloves, protective workwear, sterilisation products and procedure packs.
10 Chief Executives review Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review 11 Non-food retail essentials We supply a wide range of goods not for resale used by shops and department stores.
These include carrier bags, gift boxes and other point of sale items which can be tailored to meet our customers individual requirements.
12 Chief Executives review Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 16% 48.9% Operating profit Return on average at constant exchange rates operating capital Continental Europe In Germany, profits improved due to better At constant exchange rates revenue increased by 15% to 822.8 million and operating profit margins and tight cost control.
Gnter integrated successfully into our existing rose 16% to 67.2 million.
Good organic sales growth has been complemented by the full operations with all stock now held in our warehouse in Marl and its operations year impact of the 2007 acquisitions of King Benelux and Iberlim and the part year impact transferred onto the same ERP system as our existing German business.
Sales are benefiting of the 2008 acquisitions of Gnter Guest Supplies, Worldpack, Hicosa and Marca.
from the cross-selling of product ranges.
Profitability has improved, principally due to operating efficiency gains which have In Denmark, both our retail and horeca businesses enjoyed strong profit growth more than offset higher fuel and third party transport costs.
from robust sales and margin improvements.
The horeca business successfully relocated In France, our cleaning and hygiene business one of its two warehouses into a new, larger recorded good revenue growth in difficult building, positioning it well for continued market conditions, particularly with larger growth in the future along with cost efficiencies.
The resulting margin pressure was partially offset by higher sales of our TechLine In central Europe, our cleaning and safety own brand products and continued tight business had flat sales and experienced control over costs.
The roll out of the new IT some margin pressure, particularly following system is progressing well.
Our French some product changes at one of its major personal protection equipment business customers.
The retail business, by contrast, generated substantial profit growth from a improved its margins but sales were lower combination of key account wins, good margin due in particular to a customer loss although management and cost efficiencies.
this business has been won back for 2009.
In Benelux, the King businesses benefited In Spain, our cleaning and hygiene business from substantially improved purchasing continues to grow and we are currently terms now that they are part of Bunzl.
King integrating Hicosa, acquired in July, with our Netherlands also achieved strong sales growth existing operations.
We also acquired Marca, due to new customer wins and implemented a personal protection equipment business a new IT system in November which should which is based in Cartagena.
The initial lead to further efficiencies.
King Belgiums performance of these newly acquired profits were however held back by the businesses is in line with our expectations disruption and one-off costs caused by the despite the weak local economy.
consolidation of two warehouses into one new location and a change in its IT system.
It is now well positioned to grow and will also benefit from cost efficiencies in 2009.
Our Dutch horeca business also delivered margin improvement but sales growth has slowed in recent months.
Although the retail businesses in Benelux had lower sales, good margin management and lower costs reduced the impact on profits.
Worldpack is integrating well and successfully relocated to a new, purpose-built warehouse in September.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review 13 Rest of 49% 58.9% Operating profit Return on average at constant exchange rates operating capital the World The Rest of the World increased revenue ongoing synergies by utilising the same To support the business growth and by 38% at constant exchange rates to ordering platform and offering our customers to create the most efficient operational 199.4 million and operating profit by 49% increased consolidation opportunities while platform, we continue to invest in and to 17.6 million principally as a result of maintaining specialist expertise from the develop our IT initiatives.
This will include the acquisition of profit Cap in Brazil in dedicated healthcare clinical team.
standardising and rationalising all business February but also due to strong growth processes, benchmarking across all operating across Australasia.
Bunzl Food Processor Supplies had a businesses and increasing the level of disappointing year and steps have been orders received electronically.
This year In Australasia, the business has been taken to improve our performance.
During we will also commission our first fully reorganised into three separate business the year we successfully merged the two consolidated warehouse and distribution units to create additional market specialisation separate businesses operating in this sector facility for all three business units in and to capitalise on ordering and consolidation to create a single identity.
We also completed Brisbane and are evaluating other locations synergies from mutual customers within a systems integration which brings them onto as opportunities arise.
the same operating system as Outsourcing Services.
This will provide ongoing economies The acquisition of profit Cap in February, We experienced continued strong organic of scale and provide additional flexibility a leading national supplier of personal growth and improved profitability in our largest and efficiency by automating customer protection equipment in So Paulo, represents business, Outsourcing Services.
The ongoing and supplier transactions.
our first step into the large and growing focus into the healthcare, industrial, horeca Brazilian market.
Results so far have been and retail goods not for resale sectors has To recognise our growing position in the encouraging with the business trading ahead held this business in good stead in a difficult catering equipment sector, we created our of expectations due to a combination of new economic environment.
Our specialist third business unit, Bunzl Catering Supplies.
customer wins and product line extensions.
healthcare business had a much stronger This follows our acquisition of Salgo in April performance following operational improvements and complements our existing business based made during 2008.
To complement our strong in Queensland.
Our goal is to create a single position, while capitalising on the continued national network to provide a seamless service growth opportunities in the healthcare market, offering to our customers in this sector.
this business is now reporting through Outsourcing Services.
This will result in Cleaning & safety essentials We are a leading supplier of essential cleaning and hygiene products and personal protection equipment to a variety of industrial and construction markets.
The safety product range includes work wear, ear and eye protection, gloves and other safety equipment.
14 Chief Executives review Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review 15
