CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS LETTER 6 I am pleased to report that 2007 08 was another strong This context forced a reprioritisation of objectives.
We continued to be true to the brands to capitalise on the brands momentum, management amazing heritage, while evolving to capture the present.
focused on the growth opportunities.
SAP implementation We executed current priorities, while thoughtfully evolving was re-phased to minimise potential disruption, while the our plans and structure for the future.
distribution and logistics reconfiguration required acceleration.
Having refined the strategic agenda during 2006 07, Implementation of other operational initiatives slowed relative Burberrys management and their teams were intensely to the initial plan supplier transition and Spain integration, focused on executing across the five strategic themes in as examples.
this first full year of execution.
With these efforts, the first The front end back end tension required this accelerated stage of the strategic plan is now largely implemented.
growth to be funded by incremental expense from temporary The Group achieved a milestone year: reaching nearly warehouse facilities to the parallel running and maintenance 1 billion in revenue, opening a record number of stores of legacy information systems, among other limitations on and concessions, and achieving double digit growth across the ability to rationalise the infrastructure as planned.
primary product categories, geographic regions and Despite these impediments, the Group produced a 14% wholesale and retail channels.
The years 18% underlying increase in underlying adjusted operating profit for the year revenue growth was on top of 15% growth in 2006 07. against a 17% gain in the previous period.
Intensely executing Phase I Foundation for the future Major execution themes in 2007 08 included: While executing Phase I, management also began to lay Organisation enhancement.
Continued enhancement the foundation for the plans next phases.
New businesses, of the organisations efficiency and effectiveness.
including Burberry Sport and jewellery, were introduced.
Regionally, this was achieved with more complete Childrenswear was elevated to full product division status.
integrations of each of the European and Asian regions.
New, closer, collaborative relationships are being formed in Functionally, the Group moved closer to its goal of a the Middle East and China, and a more precise view of the single, seamless design, merchandising and supply chain opportunities in our large Spain business is emerging.
Corporately, business units adopted more Beyond commercial activities, we have also formalised the formalised methods of reporting and communications.
Burberry Foundation, its board of trustees, and the global Front-end evolution.
The front end also continued organisations it will initially support with grants and employee its evolution with the singular brand vision more clear volunteering and mentoring programmes as coordinated by throughout the organisation and the One Brand strategy our internal employee board.
The Foundation along with more consistently pursued.
The year saw further alignment Burberrys new Horseferry headquarters will further unite of design and merchandising, a shift in marketing to our teams and solidify our culture.
encompass the full brand expression and efforts to more Our teams around the world remain the most important closely include global licensing partners in these initiatives.
Their passion, dedication, Back-end transformation.
In 2007 08 fundamental adaptability and drive continue to impress and inspire me transformation of the back end of the business the every day.
Together, we intensely executed on the core operational core began.
SAP implementation entered strategies while navigating a transformational year, and its most intensive phase, with deployment in key central delivered strong financial results.
With a powerful brand, functions and European retail operations.
Restructuring brilliant creative director and seasoned management team, of the sourcing network gained momentum and Burberry is well equipped to face the challenges of the reconfiguration of local distribution operations began.
This fundamental transformation extends into 2008 09.
Dynamic prioritisation Angela Ahrendts This progression across the organisation, front and back Chief Executive Officer ends, resulted in a challenging tension.
Advances on the front end enabled the businesss accelerated growth, while creating ever greater demands on Burberrys transitional infrastructure.
This growth was on top of the strong revenue expansion in 2006 07.
