Our Group Group Chief Executives Review Between the collapse of Northern Rock in October 2007 and the delayed but nevertheless dramatic government Since we first issued a cautionary intervention in the banking sector a year later, our priority was to ensure that Legal & General was appropriately note with our 2007 Interim Results, equipped with the right strategy and the operational it has become increasingly clear skills to trade robustly through even a severe downturn.
to Legal & General that the Today, I believe we have gone further.
In markets like UK economy was heading for these, fundamentally strong and healthy companies can gain competitive advantages and lay the foundations slowdown and subsequent for future value growth.
Our regular outlook The Right Strategy statements have suggested Our five strategic imperatives are the keys to realising increased volatility, a slowing our goal of becoming the UKs leading Risk, Savings and Investment management business.
We aspire to more than housing market, declining leadership in each of the three sectors: we aim to share confidence and a general resources and skills across the Group, encouraging efficient cross-fertilisation which realises the value of the many deterioration in the economic synergies between our businesses.
Core to our value and market environment.
proposition is the idea that Legal & General collectively is worth more than the sum of its parts.
Strategy in Action Strategy does not exist in a vacuum and during the year we made good progress embedding our strategic thinking into our day-to-day business activity.
The evidence for this is woven throughout this 2008 Annual Report.
We have acted to build an increasingly diversified business, for example, reducing historic reliance on housing transactions as the catalysts for protection product sales, finding new ways to access customers and adding complementary products to our existing range in Savings and Investment management.
06 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our Group To see interviews with Tim Breedon please visit Our Broader Role www.
com We are acutely aware of the trust placed in us by customers and shareholders and of the important part we play, as an investor and employer, in the broader UK economy.
We speak up and take part in public and private debate when it is in our stakeholders interests for us to do so.
As a long term business we seek to: understand the risks we take avoid the distorting effects of short term incentives: and conduct business in a sustainable fashion.
No business can be immune from market changes, nor can any business make itself recession proof.
But we can, and do, position our business to align ourselves as closely as possible with the long term interests of shareholders, customers and employees alike.
Our CSR Report contains further detail and can be found at www.
We have extended our range of high quality products and take the necessary steps to enable the Savings businesses broad distribution, introducing market innovations such to become similarly cash-generative going forward.
Our as postcode annuities, dramatically extending our range in balance sheet, as measured by total IGD capital resources the Self Invested Personal Pensions SIPP market through of 4.4bn, including a regulatory IGD surplus of 1.8bn, the acquisition of Suffolk Life, and ensuring our new remains strong.
partnership with Nationwide Building Society has successfully added to sales.
Outlook The outlook for the economy and for markets remains We have worked closely with industry bodies and our difficult.
In common with others, we expect to see negative regulator to improve customer experience and have led growth in the UK for the remainder of 2009, with continued the industry in proposing new, fairer approaches to nonuncertainty across most investment markets and asset disclosure in the life assurance and critical illness areas.
However, we believe Legal & General is welldiversified, able to take advantage of opportunities as they Financial strength was a major focus in 2008.
As financial arise even in these more difficult conditions and has robust market conditions became increasingly unsettled during capital and cash positions.
As such we are well-positioned to the year, we took a number of steps to fide-risk our balance trade through the recession, building on our strong positions sheet.
Although credit default losses remained broadly in in Risk and Investment management, and subsequently line with our assumptions in 2008, we have more than to take advantage of a return to a more cautious, savingsdoubled the reserves we hold against future credit defaults oriented approach by customers as the economy recovers.
Our capital, cashflow and liquidity positions remain robust.
We have continued to pursue our aim of building an increasingly high performance organisation.
We continued to invest in systems improvements and while tougher markets make greater demands on our employees, we have sought Tim Breedon to create, through better training, better communications Group Chief Executive and increased accountability, the right environment in which they can continually improve performance.
Financial Results Our headline financial results for 2008 are, frankly, disappointing.
There is, however, good evidence of the underlying ability of our Risk and Investment management businesses to generate strong, positive cashflows which will support future dividends and growth.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
