4 lloyds Banking Group Annual report and Accounts 2008 Group CHief exeCuTiVeS reVieW J eric Daniels thE hBOs AcquisitiOn This has been an extraordinary year, by any measure and, as many Throughout the year, it became clear that there were a number of commentators have observed, we are in the most severe global institutions facing significant challenges, both here in the uK and overseas.
it was triggered by problems in the uS housing During the summer months there was a further collapse in confidence in the market, spread to the financial services industry and has now moved on wholesale markets and, for all but the strongest, the pressures of funding to the broader economy.
The uK has been profoundly impacted by the reached crisis proportions.
lloyds TSB had pursued a very successful crisis and, as a bank that primarily does its business in the uK, lloyds TSB relationship-focused strategy that had delivered good results for all our has felt the impact.
in a year when many financial institutions declared stakeholders, and we were continuing to perform relatively well.
However, as losses, lloyds TSB did deliver profits, albeit lower than in previous years the financial crisis gathered pace and a number of competitors recognised and i am very aware that, as with the rest of the industry, there has been that they could not survive on a standalone basis, it became clear that the a sharp reduction in our share price.
The year also brought opportunities, industry would begin to consolidate around a smaller number of larger and we began the process to acquire the HBoS business, which is players.
it was against this backdrop that we decided to revisit our earlier probably the most far reaching event in our 243 year history.
over the past five years, i have reported on our progress towards the The opportunity to acquire HBoS was considered against our other aspiration of building the uKs best bank and our approach to developing strategic options, and before deciding to proceed the board considered a deep, long-lasting customer relationships.
Banking is fundamentally a risk number of alternatives which included continuing with our existing organic business, and early on we took the decision to manage risk on a through growth strategy, acquiring parts of HBoS and alternate acquisitions.
This means the business will be less impacted by the thorough review, the board decided that the HBoS acquisition would offer extreme points in the cycle and that we can continue to support our the highest value-creating strategy for our shareholders and we announced customers through the changes in the economic climate.
As a result, our the transaction on 18 September 2008. rate of growth in earnings in prior periods did not always match those of We are acquiring 17.9 billion of tangible net asset value with consideration our competitors but the quality of our earnings has been demonstrated valued at 7.7 billion, even taking into account the losses HBoS announced in this past year.
All in, we have acquired a franchise that brings extensive in my review this year, i will cover three areas: first, the strategic rationale distribution, a large customer base, good people and excellent brands.
for the transaction and the benefits it will bring, second, the performance HBoS had developed a number of specialist businesses that brought greater of lloyds TSB in 2008, and third the outlook for lloyds Banking Group.
returns at greater risk, and these did not fit the lloyds TSB risk appetite.
We recognised this in our due diligence and this was reflected in the price we agreed to pay.
We are buying the business in the down part of the economic cycle, at a significant discount to book value, which increases the likelihood of value creation, and we paid in shares rather than cash which in some part insulated the lloyds TSB shareholders from market risk.
The transaction allows us immediately to gain scale in a consolidating market, and it profoundly changes the long-term trajectory for the Group.
The acquisition allows us to occupy leading positions in current accounts, retail savings and insurance, mortgages and personal lending, and will also provide substantial scale in our corporate and commercial businesses: something that would not have been possible through organic growth alone.
There will clearly be revenue synergies arising from the acquisition, as we take the best of the relationship development skills from each business and apply them across the enlarged Group.
Whilst these synergies are real, and we will report on them in future periods, they are always more difficult to measure and so we have not included any value for these benefits.
The transaction is essentially an in-market deal, which have historically proven to be amongst the most successful, given they allow greater cost synergies to be captured.
We are targeting annualised savings in excess of 1.5 billion in 2011, which represents some 14 per cent of the combined cost base.
Work is already underway, with early synergies starting to come from procurement benefits and the more efficient management of the property portfolio.
over 100 million of cost efficiencies have been identified immediately from ceasing projects that will no longer be required in the enlarged Group.
Clearly, there will be some staffing reductions resulting from the broad range of programmes we will initiate, but we anticipate that we can accommodate the majority of any reductions through natural staff turnover or limited voluntary redundancy programmes.
The combination of the two businesses provides a strong platform for us to pursue our customer focused growth strategy, built around acquiring relationships and then deepening them.
The scale we have now achieved will also allow us to be more efficient and to better leverage future investments.
Whilst it is still relatively early days in terms of the transaction, we have made considerable progress, with the senior 500 executives being appointed to run the new Group and we will quickly integrate the businesses.
We are identifying those businesses that are priorities for future investment, those OvERviEw BusinEss REviEw gOvERnAncE finAnciAl stAtEMEnts shAREhOldER infORMAtiOn Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 five year financial summary 65 report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 parent company financial statements 183 5 lloyds Banking Group Notes to the parent company financial statements 186 Annual report and Accounts 2008 where we are adjusting the risk policies to reflect the current environment dividEnd and those that will require significant change to meet our return hurdles and As part of the HM Treasury recapitalisation scheme, the Group was required risk appetite.
This is allowing us to focus on developing and growing those to suspend the payment of cash dividends to ordinary shareholders until the core business areas that fit with our relationship-based, lower-risk model, HM Treasury preference shares issued as part of the scheme are repaid.
in the whilst we squarely address the issues that affect the higher-risk portfolios.
meantime, however, as we indicated in our shareholder circular last year, the board has approved a capitalisation issue of one for 40 ordinary shares held.
in evaluating the HBoS portfolios last year, we had taken a more conservative forecast than the HBoS internal estimates, recognising they suppORting OuR custOMERs were subject to greater volatility in an economic downturn.
once we took control of HBoS in January, we analysed the portfolios in granular detail, There has been considerable comment about the performance of the updated our diligence and have begun to apply the lloyds TSB operating financial services sector this last year and, in particular, support for customers model across the enlarged business.
As we began to apply our more seeking mortgages and the owners of small businesses.
i am very proud conservative provisioning methodologies to their portfolios, and took of the way your company has maintained its support to customers, in line account of the economic deterioration in the final quarter of the year, the with our relationship-based strategy.
using Bank of england data for the expected losses in that final quarter increased and were finally set at a level year to December 2008, our lending to individuals grew by 10.7 per cent 1.6 billion higher than our initial estimate of 8 billion.
Whilst this figure is against the industry average of 5.4 per cent, whilst our lending to private higher than our earlier estimates, it does reflect the size and nature of the non-financial corporates grew by 22.2 per cent against the industry average HBoS portfolios and the scale of the change in the economic environment.
The commitment to our customers is critical to our business strategy, and will continue to be so in 2009. in line with our plans, we have completed substantial further work to analyse the portfolios.
We understand the challenges faced by these portfolios and are taking the necessary actions: for instance, we have reviewed the major OutlOOk exposures in key lines, identified the significant concentrations, revised the Against a backdrop of recession and an ongoing global financial crisis, we credit criteria for key products and withdrawn from certain business lines.
expect 2009 to be another challenging year.
our revenues will be less We are prudently managing the capital base, as has been a hallmark of impacted than many other institutions, as we have a much lower reliance lloyds TSB.
The enlarged Group retains a robust capital position, with on transactional income, but we will nevertheless be affected by factors an adjusted pro forma core tier 1 capital ratio of 6.4 per cent as of such as lower margins driven by lower interest rates and the accounting 31 December 2008, which means we are well placed to withstand the impact of replacing our single premium payment protection insurance impact of any slowdown in the economy.
product with a new monthly premium product, as well as the general slowdown in the economy.
thE llOyds tsB gROup pERfORMAncE in 2008 We will continue to manage expenses tightly, as you have come to expect of us, but we will incur some additional costs in order to realise the synergies let me now reflect on the performance of the lloyds TSB Group in 2008.
impairments will continue to run at high levels, all the headlines this past year have been about the economy, the financial especially in the higher risk parts of the legacy HBoS portfolios.
crisis and, for us, the HBoS transaction, it is easy to overlook the fact that the Group and our businesses have performed satisfactorily, delivering positive Despite the outlook for 2009 being tough, we will use this year to make earnings despite the most difficult operating environment in many years.
significant progress in our strategy and to build the uKs leading financial services company.
Given the relationship nature of our business, the our results for the year show a decline in earnings, and on a statutory basis markets in which we operate, the focus on what i describe as the the Groups profit before tax fell by 80 per cent to 807 million.
However, fundamentals of banking and the return to the more appropriate pricing i believe a more appropriate way to view the results is to look at our of risk all play to our strengths and will support our longer-term growth.
performance on a continuing business basis, and taking this approach the We are now focused on the integration of the two businesses, which will Group profit before tax was 2,426 million, a reduction of 35 per cent.
allow us to offer unparalleled choice and service to our customers, create on a continuing business basis we saw income rise by 2 per cent, as the the platform for the next stage of our growth and provide long-term value ongoing market dislocation impacted on an otherwise good performance.
Costs rose by 5 per cent, reflecting good cost control in our day-to-day operations which allowed us to further invest in our plans to support the suMMARy growth of the franchise, with additional relationship staff and improvements to our systems and product range.
impairments were up 68 per cent, our key businesses have continued to grow, attracting new customers, reflecting the general slowdown in the economy and a number of specific improving the service to our customers and building our market share.
As losses related to the financial crisis and economic downturn.
the crisis continued to impact the uK banking industry, we acquired HBoS in a deal that brought greater stability to the uK banking system and which i would have liked to have delivered an even stronger performance for has allowed lloyds TSB to rapidly advance its strategic priorities.
our shareholders, but in the context of the environment and when many organisations will be reporting losses, i do feel this is a reasonable out-turn.
The success of this organisation is built on the wonderful contributions We again used the year well, strengthening the overall business franchise, of our thousands of colleagues, and i am very grateful for all they have with an improvement in efficiency, increases in market share, higher achieved this last year in serving our customers and executing our plans.
customer advocacy scores and we also added to the depth and experience it is this consistent level of performance over the last few years which left us of the management team.
our focus on developing strong franchises so well placed.
The next year will be challenging but i am very confident we continues to offer a strong and sustainable platform for our future growth.
will make further substantial progress in building our business, as we begin to establish the uKs leading financial services company.
in building our business model, over this period, we have used a balanced scorecard approach throughout the organisation to measure our progress.
The balanced scorecard contains five sections: financial performance, franchise growth, customer satisfaction, risk management and people development.
As a result of managing each section of the scorecard J Eric daniels assiduously, and focusing on a balanced approach to growth, your Group Chief executive company was well positioned as the financial crisis struck the industry.
