6 lloyds Banking Group Annual report and Accounts 2008 Group CHief exeCuTiVeS Q&A iSSue: thE chAllEnging MARkEtplAcE iSSue: thE hBOs AcquisitiOn THe GloBAl fiNANCiAl CriSiS THAT HAS THe ACQuiSiTioN of HBoS HAS CreATeD THe uKS rAGeD oVer THe lAST 18 MoNTHS HAS leD leADiNG fiNANCiAl SerViCeS Group.
To THe DeMiSe of MANY fiNANCiAl SerViCeS hOw will this influEncE thE gROups CoMpANieS ArouND THe WorlD.
hOw hAs thE cRisis AffEctEd thE gROup?
The strategy for the new lloyds Banking Group will be similar to that successfully adopted by lloyds TSB.
We will continue to implement our Clearly the last 18 months have seen unprecedented change for the through the cycle customer relationship based approach.
The new worldwide financial services sector and the uK sector has been no different.
enlarged entity has significant scale advantage and both organisations Within the uK we have seen the nationalisation of Northern rock, the enjoy a terrific reputation for managing efficiency.
We will adopt the more acquisition of Alliance & leicester, the break up of Bradford & Bingley and conservative lloyds TSB risk disciplines, which have served us well, and the recapitalisation of the uK banking sector.
we will embed them across the combined business.
We will also maintain lloyds Banking Group has not been immune from the market dislocation the economic profit disciplines we use to allocate capital efficiently.
At the as even the safest banks like lloyds TSB with strong capital bases and same time, we will continue to invest in people and systems to serve our limited exposure to risky assets have been impacted.
like many other customers better and we will look to set customer and staff satisfaction financial institutions the lloyds TSB Corporate Markets business has been standards that are unparalleled in the market.
significantly affected by the market dislocation: however the relationship The lloyds TSB management team has a strong track record of delivery focus of our strategy has meant that the impact on the Groups profit before built up over the last five years as we have consistently executed against tax was comparatively limited at 1,270 million in 2008.
Although significant our strategy to attract more customers to our franchise business, to deepen in absolute terms, this remains relatively low compared to many of our relationships with these customers over time, to deliver sustainable cost and global peers.
productivity improvements in our operations and to make the most effective importantly in the current turbulent markets, the enlarged Group has a use of all our resources.
These skills will all remain important for lloyds robust capital position, continues to fund at competitive prices and has Banking Group.
The Group continues to offer security through The acquisition of HBoS provides a unique strategic opportunity to its relative credit strength and our strong credit ratings are representative create the best financial services business in the united Kingdom.
The board remains convinced that the combination of combination of lloyds TSB and HBoS creates a new stronger organisation lloyds TSB and HBoS will bring long-term benefits for our shareholders.
and helps support the stability of the uK financial system.
We are bringing The unprecedented turmoil in the global financial markets has also had together two of the most efficient customer franchises in the country a significant impact on bank share prices, many of which have fallen and providing an unrivalled distribution network for our customers.
it is not easy to offer simple explanations as to why the stock information advantage from the large customer base is a real differentiating market has marked down bank share prices to such a degree in recent edge, and the size of our operations gives us a clear opportunity for better months but clearly there are a number of factors at play including the productivity.
We are targeting benefits in excess of 1.5 billion per annum current view of, and future projections for, the uK economy and its impact through cost synergies, or some 14 per cent of the enlarged Groups cost on future asset write downs and impairments.
it is also undoubtedly the case base, by 2011.
The enlarged Group has the capital strength and diverse that there is currently a great deal of nervousness in the markets which is funding capabilities which will enable us better to meet the current reflected in volatile bank share prices.
industry challenges and continue to lend to and support our customers.
We are living through difficult times but lloyds Banking Group remains Despite our relative strength, the shape of the financial services markets is a strong institution focused on building deeper relationships with our changing all the time and we will continue to operate in highly vibrant and customers and delivering long-term shareholder value.
We believe we have a great case for value creation in the long-term, through building the largest financial services company in the uK, with the attendant benefits of a strong market position and large scale.
All in, we believe this is a unique opportunity to create the uKs leading financial services company.
OvERviEw BusinEss REviEw gOvERnAncE finAnciAl stAtEMEnts shAREhOldER infORMAtiOn Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial group chief executives q&A 6 our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 five year financial summary 65 report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 parent company financial statements 183 7 lloyds Banking Group Notes to the parent company financial statements 186 Annual report and Accounts 2008 iSSue: thE gOvERnMEnt shAREhOlding iSSue: Risk MAnAgEMEnt AS A reSulT of THe reCApiTAliSATioN of THe lloYDS TSB HAS TrADiTioNAllY BeeN perCeiVeD BANKiNG SeCTor AND THe ASSoCiATeD plACiNG AS HAViNG A CoNSerVATiVe riSK profile.
AND opeN offer, THe GoVerNMeNT NoW dOEs thE hBOs AcquisitiOn signAl Any HolDS A SiGNifiCANT STAKe iN THe eNlArGeD chAngE in thE gROups Risk AppEtitE?
No, lloyds TSB has clearly demonstrated a strong track record of delivery whAt ARE thE iMplicAtiOns Of this And with a prudent risk appetite and the new lloyds Banking Group has no hOw dOEs thE gOvERnMEnts shARE intention of changing this successful approach.
OwnERship iMpAct thE gROups BusinEss lloyds Banking Group will continue to take a prudent approach to risk gOing fORwARd?
management and our philosophy remains to take a through the cycle relationship based approach to lending.
We are committed to this relationship approach, are focused on the needs of our customers and The Governments recapitalisation of the banking sector in october 2008 recognise that we have a role to play in helping our customers through was necessary to restore confidence and stability to the financial services the economic downturn, particularly when they face financial difficulty.
The sector at that time, and although they now hold a significant stake in the new Group has already exited a number of non core areas in which HBoS organisation we are comfortable that the Governments investment was the previously participated and will continue to assess participation in business right way of achieving that capital increase for our company.
it is important to note that the board believes that HM Treasury will act as a our conservative approach to managing the Groups risk has meant that value-oriented shareholder with regard to the strategic development of the we remain well positioned to capture growth opportunities at a time when Group and the Government has stressed the importance of institutional and others have pulled back from the market.
As a result, we have been able to individual investors as well as HM Treasury.
capture market share in a number of key areas without impacting the overall A number of specific requirements stem from Government ownership which quality of business.
primarily relate to corporate governance and lending, as outlined below.
Dividend restrictions, as outlined below, have been introduced due to the presence of the Government preference shares.
lEnding We have a commitment to maintain the availability and active marketing of competitively priced mortgage lending and lending to Small and Medium enterprises SMes but do not expect any impact on our lending policies or on our conduct of business.
As a major lender in the uK economy focused on developing enduring relationships with our customers, we recognise that our success is based on a commitment to helping our customers throughout the economic cycle.
We are able to do this because we have a robust capital position.
We remained open for business last year and grew our lending prudently.
lending to SMes grew by 20 per cent at lloyds TSB in 2008 and over 100,000 small businesses chose to bank with lloyds TSB last year.
Both lloyds TSB and HBoS also launched charters setting out the practical steps they will take to support small businesses through the economic downturn.
in addition, on the retail side, we are the biggest mortgage provider in the first time buyer market and more basic banking customers bank with lloyds Banking Group than any other bank.
cORpORAtE gOvERnAncE The Government are also keen to see an enlarged board and we are appointing two new independent non-executive directors, in consultation with HM Treasury see page 66. it is important to note that the new directors will have precisely the same role and responsibilities as any other director on the board.
dividEnd As part of the HM Treasury recapitalisation scheme, the Group was required to suspend the payment of cash dividends to ordinary shareholders until the HM Treasury preference shares issued as part of the scheme are repaid.
in the meantime however, as we indicated in our shareholder circular last year, the board has approved a capitalisation issue of one for 40 ordinary shares held.
