the worlds capital market chieF eXecutiVes reVieW a Year oF MaJor achieVeMent With the launch oF traDelect, the MerGer With Borsa italiana anD continuinG stronG orGanic GroWth clara Furse Market efficiency Our central purpose is to reduce the cost of capital for our companies by creating the most efficient market.
This is a driver of growth for the Exchange, our customers and the economies we support Full service offering By focusing on operational excellence and promoting high regulatory standards, we provide neutral, well-regulated exchange services for issuers, intermediaries and investors the world over international market of choice At the heart of the City of London we are the worlds most international equity market, benefiting from globalisation by facilitating global growth in the last year we have made significant further progress towards fulfilling our vision to be the worlds capital market.
By focusing on bringing the world to london, completing the merger with Borsa italiana, improving market efficiency and creating new opportunities for our widening network of customers, we have delivered record results.
London Stock Exchange 16 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market Our merger with Borsa Italiana, which was We continue to innovate to deliver new overwhelmingly supported by shareholders, products and services to our customers has created Europes leading diversified and extend our international reach.
Our joint exchange group and gives us new platforms venture with the Tokyo Stock Exchange and for growth.
The combination brings together the opening of our office in Beijing will help the strengths of Borsa Italiana in Italian to ensure that we are able to offer the Citys cash equities, derivatives, Exchange Traded unique range of equity market services to Funds, securitised derivatives, fixed income Asias global growth companies.
In 2009 products through MTS as well as highly we will significantly enhance our cash efficient post trade services, with those equity trading service with the launch of the London Stock Exchange in UK and of a combined equity and Contracts for international equity markets and information Difference order book.
The combined group is Europes customers with a new, innovative way of leading equities business with nearly 50 trading CFDs, adding participants and per cent of the FTSEurofirst 100 by market increased liquidity, thereby enhancing capitalisation and Europes most liquid order market efficiency.
In the last year we have made significant book by value and volume traded.
further progress towards fulfilling our Our relentless focus on market efficiency, vision to be the worlds capital market.
By The integration of our businesses is on our growing global network and our focusing on bringing the world to London, track to deliver significant cost and revenue independent, full service exchange offering completing the merger with Borsa Italiana, synergies.
Trading in Italian equities will at the heart of the City of London, provide improving market efficiency and creating migrate to TradElect before the end of a unique and strong foundation for an new opportunities for our widening network 2008, creating Europes largest liquidity exciting future.
of customers, we have delivered record pool and generating new trading results.
Operating profit, excluding opportunities for the larger network of exceptional items and amortisation of Borsa Italiana and London Stock Exchange purchased intangibles, increased 56 per customers via cross-access services.
These results are a testament to the quality of our product London continues to be the market of choice offering, the breadth and character of for international issuers.
In October we our international customer base and the welcomed Grupo Clarn, Argentinas largest clara Furse commitment and energy of our staff.
media group, and more recently in March, chieF eXecutiVe BHK Inc, a Korean household goods We successfully launched our new trade company, joined AIM.
Across the Group, execution engine, TradElect, as planned there were 84 international IPOs from 25 on 18 June 2007.
This completed a fourcountries which raised a total of 12.8 billion.
year investment programme which has At the end of the year there were over 700 revolutionised the speed and capacity international companies from 70 different of our technology infrastructure.
This countries on our markets.
has driven record trading volumes as high frequency electronic trading has shown AIM continues to consolidate its position exponential growth.
Since the launch of as the worlds leading market for smaller TradElect we have seen 98 of the 100 growth companies and in the last year there busiest days ever on the SETS order book.
was a record 9 billion in further issues.
For the full year, SETS achieved very strong Building on the global success of AIM and growth in trading with the average daily the strength of the secondary market in number of SETS trades up 82 per cent to Italy for smaller companies, we intend to 642,000 and average daily value traded up launch AIM Italia in the second half of 2008 39 per cent to more than 9 billion.
providing another route to capital for Italys dynamic smaller company sector and Our investment in technology continues completing the next phase in our strategy apace.
In October 2007, an upgrade to for AIM Europe.
As companies on AIM fulfil TradElect increased trading capacity by their potential, there is a growing pipeline of a further 70 per cent and reduced overall AIM companies moving to the Main Market, end-to-end latency by 40 per cent.
In with a record 13 companies transferring the year ahead, more enhancements last year.
are planned to make our markets ever more attractive to increasing numbers of customers.
London Stock Exchange 17 annual report 2008
