OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Growth through Performance The last year has been one of great significance, both for Man and the markets in which we operate.
The successful implementation of our strategy of focus and development, coincided with some of the most difficult market conditions in recent memory, starting in July 2007 and continuing into 2008.
This combination of strategic attributes Funds under management $74.6bn differentiates our business model and is the foundation for sustained and profitable growth.
We will continue to build on our leading position, using our scale, market access and financial strength to engage the changing patterns of global wealth and the developing investor interest in new sources of 38% investment return.
Our ambition is to lead innovation and deliver performance.
To achieve these goals, we rely upon the talent, motivation and engagement of $31.0bn Guaranteed product everyone in Man.
Our 1,600 people operate $12.5bn Open-ended product from 13 offices globally to source, structure and deliver a broad range of investment $31.1bn Institutional product It is therefore very pleasing to report products and services to our investors.
Compound annual growth rate 2002-2008 that Man has had a successful year.
Our senior management team has extensive We have executed on our strategy, industry experience and knowledge.
delivered positive performance for To maintain our leading position we will our investors overall, expanded our continue to grow and develop talent at all investment management capabilities, levels, and take advantage of uncertain The global nature of our institutional sales grown the business and generated markets to recruit for future growth.
and distribution network enables us to raise record profits for shareholders.
assets across a wide range of geographies.
The strategic decision to separate the This has the dual benefit of reducing reliance Groups brokerage business, MF Global, Our strategy is to focus on four key on any single region for asset raising, which was executed through an IPO on objectives: whilst also giving us operational capability the New York Stock Exchange in July 2007, Excellence in investment to access the changing patterns of global was based on the advantages afforded by management trade and wealth creation.
Our two principal a focused business model and the ability to Providing a wide range of alternative locations in London and Switzerland are realise and distribute value to shareholders.
investment capabilities complemented by a long-established Following the IPO, and subsequent distribution regional office network in Asia Pacific andOffering robust and durable products of $2.7 billion net to shareholders, we the Middle East, as well as a developingServicing a global investor base.
have successfully rationalised and aligned presence in North America.
Our 11 regional Mans business into a focused investment offices employ 200 people and the network management firm.
This has facilitated provides us with local knowledge and skills, new management structures, capital and access to investors directly and through our resourcing plans and created opportunities distribution partners, and opportunities to for further growth.
During the year we continued to build on our Sales for the year were $15.9 billion, leading position in investment management.
equalling last years record level.
Our sales and distribution network attracted assets based on a year of solid performance, attractive products and good investor servicing.
These components have supported continued growth, with assets under management reaching around $75 billion at year-end.
6 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Our Business OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Our core European markets continued Hedge fund assets under management growth and future investor base to account for the bulk of our institutional asset raising, as institutions access the diversification benefits from investment in alternatives.
We saw strong levels of interest $3.5 trillion from UK institutions, as these markets move 11% towards the higher levels of hedge fund 15% CAGR 11% allocation typically found in other markets $2.6 trillion such as Switzerland and the United States.
RMF, our institutional fund of funds manager has established its Asia Pacific regional office $2.0 trillion in Singapore to capitalise on the growing 50% capital flows into the region and provide a $1.5 trillion local presence for manager selection.
11% In North America our expanded institutional 9% sales team continues to focus on marketing 45% Mans strengths in solution-based investment ideas and new sources of uncorrelated 28% returns.
We are now beginning to see the 35% success of this strategy, with tangible 2006 2008E 2010E 2012E progress in asset raising.
High Net Worth Individuals Fund of Hedge Funds Pension Funds Others Private investor asset raising was healthy Source: HFR, IFSL, Hennessee Group, McKinsey Global Institute Analysis 2007 world-wide, but with Asia, and in particular Japan, making significant contributions.
Sales of our diversified guaranteed products Although our products are long-term Our strategy is to offer a wide range of to the private investor have continued to be investments, access to liquidity is an alternative investment product, which can strong.
These products allow private important consideration, especially for the perform in differing market conditions.
With investors to take a long-term view of private investor.
Most of our private investor a developed regional presence and strong investment performance across market products offer at least monthly redemption, structuring skills, Man is able to create cycles and are, typically, particularly however, in times of market turbulence, the products which meet specific investor attractive in times of turbulence.
Additionally, guaranteed nature of most of our product needs, and provide routes to market in we have seen increasing demand for openrange tends to reduce redemptions in those accordance with local regulatory and fiscal ended products as investors become more products.
During the year we continued familiar with non-traditional investment in our products are very low by industry to increase the breadth of our product range, products as part of their portfolio.
This trend standards, with our last three years launching 32 new private investor products is also being facilitated by regulatory change, averaging at 11% per annum.
We did, across all regions.
This requires investment for example in Europe, which should enable however, see redemption rates rise in in people and the systems capable of wider investor access.
Man is particularly the later part of 2007 but they reduced providing high levels of investor servicing and well placed to meet this demand given our somewhat in the first quarter of 2008, giving reporting.
Few of our competitors are able to product structuring skills and access to a an overall 13% redemption rate for the year match these capabilities globally or even range of underlying managers and styles.
This trend is set to develop further and initiatives to reduce redemptions and we are investing in systems and investor enhance investor liquidity has been the servicing to accommodate strong growth establishment of MI Trade, a secondary in this market.
market platform for a representative range of our products.
The platform offers daily pricing off estimated net assets and, although still at an early stage, has been a valuable component of investor service.
7 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Growth through Performance continued Man has built a strong reputation for RMF continues to develop differentiated These positive returns for our fund investors providing robust and durable product product, using their significant research have also generated performance fees structures, capable of long-term performance resources and manager access to create for our shareholders, which, including through market cycles.
Difficult markets thematic and focused funds in addition to our share of associates income, were a test investment management skills, but their core diversified product.
These include record $1,192 million for the year.
Very they particularly test investment structures.
an environmental opportunities fund aimed strong performance from AHL over the year, The robust design of our products, at more liquid environmental investment, a generated record performance fees of their diversified investment content and real estate fund, and RMF Global Emerging $1,050 million, but additionally our other conservative risk modelling, mean that Managers Fund designed to capture returns core managers together with our share of our funds are able to withstand a variety from early stage managers.
associates performance fees generated of market conditions, including the extreme $142 million.
The diversification of investment Against the back drop of challenging turbulence of recent markets.
For those styles across our core managers brings a market conditions, we were able to generate products which rely on external funding as degree of stability to overall performance $5.6 billion of positive investment returns part of the structure, we have developed fee income for the Group as well as return for our investors overall.
The first half of relationships with major financial institutions diversification to our fund investors.
the year saw positive performance broadly which seek to ensure that our portfolio spread across all our core investment Maintaining close contact with our investors managers can provide continued access managers.
A similar level of investment and distributors is a core component of our to markets, even during periods of stress.
returns for our investors was added in the focus on investment excellence.
We have Conservative risk modelling means that second half of the year, however, the market put to work the scale and resources of investor exposure to markets can be turmoil which began in the summer of 2007 Man to facilitate the delivery of timely and maintained over the long term.
and has recurred to varying degrees accurate information to investors.
Particular Our focus on excellence in investment subsequently, did adversely impact focus has been given to electronic applications management combines innovation, product performance, particularly for subscription, performance reporting and performance and high levels of investor in Man Global Strategies, our multi-strategy risk analysis.
It is a reflection of our success servicing.
manager, with its focus on quantitative in client reporting standards that RMF equity strategies.
RMF returned positive has been asked to provide consolidated We continue to source and launch new and performance in the second half but this was reporting to certain institutional investors innovative product.
We recently launched partly offset by a small decline in Glenwoods to include reporting on their hedge fund Man Environmental Capital Opportunities performance returns.
However, the second investments with third parties, together ECO, our new core investment manager half saw particularly strong performance with their investment with RMF.
from AHL, our managed futures manager, Man ECO seeks to identify and capture The performance reporting, investment benefiting from strong trends in certain returns which do not correlate with traditional analysis and support we offer our investors markets, especially commodities and sources of return, and has already successfully reinforces the long-term holding of our currencies.
Managed futures have raised 400 million in its China Methane products, especially at times of market consistently demonstrated low correlation Recovery Fund, a unique environmental stress.
On average, our private investors to equity markets and can provide attractive fund investing in methane capture projects to retain their investment in our products for opportunities in times of market dislocation.
generate electricity and create carbon credits.
around five years, and in many cases then Most of our private investor products contain reinvest in new Man products.
The stability a wide range of underlying investment styles of our assets provides us with enhanced and so benefit from the diversification of access to underlying managers as well as returns across managers with low correlation visibility on management fee earnings.
8 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Our Business OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Man has built a strong reputation for providing robust and durable product structures, capable of long-term performance through market cycles.
For investors, our business model allows Our strategy is to invest in our distribution Our established regional office network us to focus on discreet, independent franchise and our investment management provides us with local access to the evolving investment management mandates whilst capacity.
In May we completed a series of locations of global capital accumulation also bringing the benefits of Mans scale and transactions which resulted in the acquisition and wealth creation.
The benefits of scale are being of a 50% shareholding in Ore Hill, a credit especially in Europe, are progressively recognised by institutional investors as they manager based in the United States, and opening up private investor markets for seek to make significant allocations to the sale of 50% of Pemba, our wholly owned non-traditional investment products.
non-traditional investments, and so require European credit business.
The combination Challenging markets will continue to access to markets across a range of created a joint venture with $6.7 billion of provide opportunities to expand our instruments, geographies and styles.
Firms assets and over 70 people, allowing us to investment management capacity and such as Man with established track records, develop a leading global credit business at grow the business.
capital and strong governance and risk a time when we see significant opportunities Since year end, our recently launched management will benefit from this trend.
$1 billion Asian fund has commenced resources also allow us to offer institutional Our people are the basis of our success and trading and we have won further institutional standards of service whilst providing tailored the foundations for our future.
I would like to business in the US.
Positive performance solutions for individual investors or markets.
thank the whole management team for their and continued sales momentum have For our shareholders and other stakeholders, focus and commitment in executing our contributed to funds under management this model allows Man to capture margins strategy, and everyone in the firm for their increasing by around $4 billion in the first across the investment process and access considerable part in the success we have two months of the year and are currently operating leverage across the firms achieved over the last year.
estimated to be about $78.5 billion.
It also promotes consistency and oversight.
Our reputation is key to Outlook our continued success.
Man is subject to Man remains strongly positioned for extensive regulatory oversight in many parts continued growth.
of the world, and we actively participate The outlook for financial markets remains in the development and promotion of uncertain and periods of higher volatility standards of good practice in our industry.
Against this backdrop, investors Mans financial strength is an important are likely to increase their focus on the attribute.
Our business model is highly cash long-term benefits of diversification into generative and, even after our increased non-traditional assets.
distribution policy, the high level of retained Mans market access and resources provide earnings continues to grow the capital institutional investors with the full range of base.
Our regulatory capital surplus is solutions, from diversified funds to thematic about $1.6 billion.
In the current market or regional products.
For the private investor, environment, demonstrable capital strength we offer guaranteed products for those who is particularly valuable.
It is a competitive seek diversification without long-term capital advantage as a differentiator and risk, and open-ended products for those demonstrates the credibility and stability who seek flexibility with greater focus.
It also allows us to invest in our business model to support new initiatives, test new trading strategies and facilitate investor liquidity.
9 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
