Chief Executives business review We continue to believe that the Introduction I suspect that over the 2008 9 reporting cycle, many Chief Executive Officers will be painting Group has a cautious picture of the future given the challenges engendered by constrained capital enormous markets, volatile foreign exchange rates and an uncertain global economic outlook.
I had certainly hoped for a more sanguine economic potential backdrop against which to present my own thoughts on the Groups performance in 2008 and our prospects in this, my first Annual Report as Chief Executive Officer.
Such an environment, however, also brings great opportunity.
Our objectives and strategy Some might argue that our objective to become the worlds most valuable online gaming company is bold.
The Group already has scale in each of its core markets, marketleading technology and gaming expertise as well as some of the best online gaming brands in the world.
PartyGaming has an exceptional business model, capable of producing high profit margins and strong cashflow, supported by a healthy Jim Ryan balance sheet and we therefore continue to Chief Executive Officer believe that the Group has enormous potential.
Over the past 18 months the structure and dynamics of the non-US online gaming market have shifted and the market is now much more competitive.
Sites that continue to take bets and generate profits from customers located in the US are now redeploying those profits into European and international markets.
The consequent increase in competition for player liquidity, particularly in poker, has driven many smaller operators on to poker networks that have grown in popularity, exacerbating the competitive threat: the product set and customer demands 20 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 are more sophisticated greater consumer Each of these elements is focused on optimising awareness and improved technology mean that our Key Performance Indicators KPIs so as to consumers are more discerning than ever before: drive long-term revenue and profit.
Throughout and finally, the regulatory environment continues this Annual Report you will find evidence of the to develop around the globe.
progress made on each of these elements during 2008.
No single element is more valuable It was against this background, following my than any other it is the contribution of each of arrival at the Group in July 2008, that I instituted them that combines to deliver growth in an immediate review of the business strategy, revenue and Clean EBITDA whilst maintaining a process that involved all of the Groups senior an appropriate balance of risk and reward.
After much debate and business model comprises a number of revenue discussion we concluded that the four elements drivers but these can be distilled into three key of the existing strategy remain sound, namely: elements: i the number of active players we Grow the player base have on our system: ii their frequency of play: Localise the customer offer and iii the amount of revenue they generate Broaden the product base each time they play.
While the inter-relationship Act responsibly between our revenue and KPIs is complex, the key dynamics can be illustrated by the diagram below.
Our revenue model Revenue is driven by the number of players playing and how much they Revenue spend.
This diagram highlights the key drivers of our revenue model Average yield No.
of active Multiply per active players player Existing Player New player Mix of Frequency Player active attrition sign-ups games of play mix players PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 21 Chief Executives business review b Despite the headwinds created by adverse 2008 Results currency movements, an unlevel competitive Clean EBITDA for our Continuing operations grew by landscape and challenging macroeconomic 29% in 2008 to $144.2 million.
conditions, we believe that our results for 2008 reflect the strength of our business strategy.
Delivering the strategy Our marketplace is very dynamic and requires us to challenge and adjust our business operations and procedures almost continuously.
At the same time, given our status as one of the worlds leading gaming companies, we need to ensure that we retain our reputation for quality and responsibility by raising the bar in terms of industry standards.
However, in doing so we have not sacrificed any of our business flair and acumen just so that we can tick some boxes!
I am delighted to say that whilst We also hold a strategy day in Gibraltar for our PartyGaming is a large enterprise, the can do top 50 managers where we present as well as attitude that lay behind much of its early discuss ideas on how the Groups strategy and success continues to flow through the veins of plans should develop.
Our approach is the business and its employees.
We recognise inclusive, we recruit bright people and want to there is a balance to be struck: we dont take make sure we are getting the best from them.
undue risks and are not prepared to This means encouraging innovation and compromise our standards of excellence or fostering team members to test existing management of regulatory compliance.
We processes and business practice.
have developed a sophisticated process that It was this challenging of existing processes seeks to balance our objective of generating during our strategy review that identified a long-term profitable growth with appropriate need to refine the way in which we were standards of governance and business ethics.
executing each element of our strategy.
The The Groups Executive Committee meets market dynamics had shifted and we needed each week to discuss and review business to change our approach simply doing things performance and operational issues while a like we had always done them before was not Regulatory Risk Committee meets at least once going to be good enough.
In response, the every two months to review developments senior management team has developed a across all of our markets.
A wider group of series of tactical plans across all aspects of our senior managers across the business meets business that draw upon one or more of the monthly to develop new ideas as well as following factors that we have identified as identify and address current business issues.
being key to our success: This system ensures that senior management is fully aware of key issues across the Group, supported by monthly management accounts that review operational and financial performance.
22 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Operational excellence Having restructured Measuring our success the business into a diverse and international From the outside, it can sometimes be difficult enterprise, we believe that we can further to ascertain what is going on inside improve the execution of our customer a company and identify whether or not a proposition.
Drawing upon their considerable strategy is achieving, or is on course to achieve industry expertise, the management team is its objectives.
The Group continues to set high taking steps to increase our operational focus standards in terms of financial and operational and raise our already high standards even disclosure, as evidenced by our award for the further.
best Annual Report of any private or public 4 company in 2007.
Being totally transparent Delight the customer As well as changes in about our business performance and the key market structure, consumer tastes have also operational and regulatory risks that we evolved online customers have become more face is what sets us apart from many of our discerning and are prepared to shop around to competitors.
Whilst we are always mindful find what they want.
This means that the of not giving away commercially sensitive strength of individual brands can be expected information, we believe that by improving to become increasingly important as will the investors and other stakeholders ability to differentiate our customer offer.
understanding of our business, we will inspire Leverage our core assets The prevailing greater trust and confidence and that this will macro and microeconomic environments reap dividends over the long-term, both in mean that we need to derive maximum value terms of stockmarket valuation as well as profit from all of our assets and resources.
already established a white label operation in the UK in 2007, we plan to extend this through additional white label opportunities but also through licensing our services to third-party gaming groups.
Our recently announced deals with CIRSA and DM plc confirm that our customer offer represents a highly attractive alternative to other gaming suppliers and networks.
From B2B to B2S Through our agreement with CIRSA we plan to Leverage the assets of others Having broaden our reach to Spanish speaking customers.
pioneered the use of Hollywood brands to develop some of the most popular online slots, we have also secured licensing deals for one of the worlds biggest video games as well as the right to use the Frank Sinatra name and music catalogue which we hope will also prove popular.
Throughout this Annual Report you will find examples of how we are drawing upon each of these factors to execute our strategy.
But how should we measure success and will it work?
PartyGaming won Best Annual Report quoted and unquoted companies.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 23 Chief Executives business review So how should we be measured?
We look to Consolidated yield per active player day $ the two key drivers behind our revenue model: 2006 2007 2008 numbers of players and player yield but also to 30 our ability to control costs and increase our Clean EBITDA margin, all while continuing to 25 manage our regulatory compliance.
20 Number of players 15 The Group has continued to drive new player 10 sign-ups and the number of active players on our sites.
As the rates of growth in existing 5 markets mature so new markets open, offering 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 new sources of growth.
At the same time, 2006 2007 2008 the task of balancing player acquisition and player retention becomes increasingly complex.
Whilst the Groups ability to attract large Player yield volumes of new players to its platform remains Player yield is the second key element of the impressive, the rates of growth in new player revenue equation and is driven by a range of sign-ups can be expected to moderate over different factors including frequency of play, time.
However, improved analytics and player the mix of games played and the overall marketing initiatives now mean that we plan to experience of the active player base.
As the squeeze even greater value from our marketing Group continues to add players to its active spend.
We have an excellent track record of base, so the mix of players is likely to become exploiting new and existing marketing channels, increasingly casual in nature, reducing both technologies and payment mechanisms and frequency and spend per player.
While this can this gives me great confidence that we can be expected to drive down player yields, continue to drive both new player sign-ups and experienced players tend to increase their the number of unique active players on our spend over time, particularly in poker, and this system.
acts as a countering and positive influence on yields.
In addition, the Group continues to invest in developing incremental sources of revenue through new product development, crossselling and marketing initiatives that also help to counter the impact of an increasingly casual player base.
Adding the impact of currency movements means that the Groups revenue equation is complex: not only are there changes in each of the key revenue drivers, but the relationship between them is also changing over time.
24 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Managing costs and regulatory compliance First, the operational leverage embedded Growing revenue is clearly important for longwithin the Groups business model.
Second, our term success, but this has to be achieved whilst focus on controlling costs and on maximising maintaining appropriate control over costs.
returns for shareholders and third our ability to Post-UIGEA, the Group has succeeded in adapt and flex our infrastructure quickly in reinventing itself around a non-US, multi-product response to changing circumstances.
As we and multi-lingual integrated gaming platform.
move through a challenging macroeconomic The reduced scale and increased complexity of environment in 2009, I am convinced these the business has meant that operating margins characteristics will stand us in good stead and are now much lower than when the Group was remain confident that, despite the challenges reliant on one product poker, one territory ahead, we will be able to meet our long-term the US, one currency US dollars and one strategic goals.
Despite being a more However, this will only be achieved if we complex business, Clean EBITDA margins have manage the regulatory risk and compliance continued to rise since the enactment of the issues associated with accepting wagers across UIGEA.
I believe this reflects three key things.
the spectrum of games that we offer and across a large number of countries.
Precedent has already shown us the potential impact on our business from political or regulatory shifts and so whilst we are focused on managing costs and driving Clean EBITDA, this will not be at the expense of managing our regulatory risk and compliance.
Regular external audits by regulators and compliance bodies, as well as our own internal review processes ensure that we maintain the highest standards.
This remains a core part of our overall strategy.
So driving revenue and Clean EBITDA within a risk-managed framework is how we would like to be measured.
To succeed we need to have the right people in the right jobs.
Polishing up Our localisation strategy in 2008 saw us launch Polish and Romanian versions of our poker software as well as a Portuguese version of our casino software.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 25 Chief Executives business review Managing our people Key objectives for 2009 The Groups management style fosters During 2009 we will continue to execute our individual responsibility with a relatively flat strategic plan and will seek to capitalise on a hierarchy and seeks to reward individuals that number of regulatory, strategic and operational make a difference in achieving the Groups developments.
Regulatory and strategic developments Communications The shifting political and economic landscape Having invested to improve our internal around the globe may present the Group with communications over the past year, employees a number of exciting opportunities for the now have a clear understanding of the Groups future.
I believe strongly US Congressman Barney Frank, Chairman of the that a unified and clear vision about what we House of Representatives Financial Services are trying to achieve as a company is a preCommittee, has announced his intention to requisite for long-term success.
introduce a bill that will seek to repeal the Management UIGEA, laying the ground for a legislative A new appraisal process requires that every framework to license and regulate online employee sets their own personal objectives gaming in the US.
While there remain many before they are agreed with and then hurdles to overcome before such a framework approved by their manager.
Employees are could become law, this would represent an assessed twice a year against these objectives important first step towards the Group being but this is just one factor upon which they will be able to once again offer its services to measured and ultimately rewarded.
We also customers in the US, which remains the worlds expect our employees to use their initiative, largest online gaming market.
With a huge albeit within an appropriate framework of database of over two million real-money US management controls and procedures.
players that were active before the enactment of the UIGEA, as well as over 10 million free play Rewards gaming customers in the US, the Group should We work in a dynamic and demanding business be well-placed to benefit from such a environment and for those prepared to go the development.
Even before then, we are extra mile, the rewards can be significant.
Our exploring opportunities to monetise the strength employees total remuneration is highly geared of the Groups brands, in particular to performance.
There is an annual or semiPartyPoker.
com, through alternative business annual bonus based on Clean EBITDA achieved models that do not raise regulatory concerns and key employees have a stake in the under US law such as state-licensed intra-state Company, either through nil-cost or fair market online gaming.
This combination of open management style and a competitive reward programme ensures that we both recruit and retain the very best talent.
26 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 In Europe, the French government has Finally, the online gaming market is ripe for published proposals for its own regulatory consolidation and we are determined that framework for online gaming.
This is a positive PartyGaming plays an active part as a development that we welcome in the context consolidator making a transformational of the implicit recognition of the wider rights acquisition remains a key objective.
enshrined in the EC Treaty.
Whilst the exact Operational developments details have yet to be finalised, we believe that Delighting the customer is at the heart of this represents a significant growth opportunity everything we do and has already set the for us as an EU-licensed and regulated gaming agenda for our development roadmap in 2009. company.
We expect other European countries Over the next six months we will be introducing will recognise the merits of a proper regulatory a range of new features and functions across framework for online gaming and look to adopt all of our business segments, as well as similar proposals.
Elsewhere, Spain is also continuing to improve the overall customer believed to be considering a proposal to experience through improved performance license and regulate online gaming.
With an and platform stability.
estimated annual gross gaming yield from landbased activities in Spain of over 5 billion per In poker, throughout the year we plan to 5 annum, the opportunity for online gaming introduce new features every month including operators is expected to be significant.
increased functionality for our multi-tabling capability, improved personalisation and many As governments around the world recognise new tournament structures.
We look forward to the benefits of regulation, we believe they will the launch of a version of our product for CIRSA also seek to participate in the online gaming and to the launch of our poker network in Italy.
market, just as they have done in lotteries.
As such, we are seeking to ensure that we are In casino, we will launch the Rambo, Frank well-positioned to win government-sponsored Sinatra, Naked Gun and High Noon slots as business that we believe will become an well as over 60 games provided by third-party increasingly important segment of the overall suppliers such as CryptoLogic, WagerWorks and online gaming market.
By the end of the first half of 2009 we are planning to have over 130 games and we will be releasing more language versions of our casino product to broaden its international appeal even further.
New fronts Our business is shifting and in 2009 we are looking to exploit opportunities in the B2B, B2C and government-sponsored markets.
5 H2 Gambling Capital February 2009 excludes lotteries.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 27 Chief Executives business review In bingo our focus during the year will be on Outlook delivering solutions for CIRSA and DM plc and The Group has continued to make good other third-party customers, as well as progress in the first few weeks of 2009 despite continuing to expand the portfolio of side the pressures of a highly competitive market games and casino games available through and currency movements.
As I look further ahead, there are some clear Our focus in sports betting will be on improving trends that I expect to continue.
Gaming on the the gross win margin in both the main and live internet is not new, it has been around for over books whilst maintaining the strong turnover a decade but over that period it has grown growth that we have achieved in recent years.
rapidly, despite technological and regulatory hurdles.
Sharp increases in broadband Following an initial soft launch, we will now be penetration in a number of developed starting to promote PartyMarkets for the first economies have been a major driver of growth time.
The PartyMarkets customer interface has for all forms of eCommerce, including online been specifically designed to simplify financial gaming.
trading and spread betting so as to make it more user friendly to regular online gamers as While the growth of broadband is well opposed to financial traders.
Included within advanced in most of these territories, many the emerging games segment within poker, less-developed, but still large and vibrant PartyMarkets has yet to make a meaningful economies, are now undergoing similar rates of contribution to revenue or profit but we believe growth and this should help to maintain the it is an opportunity for the future.
momentum for the online gaming industry see Our markets on pages 51 to 55.
Regulatory Current trading hurdles to online gaming and in particular the In the 5 weeks ended 4 February 2009, average promotion of online gaming, remain significant gross daily revenue was $1,442,900.
In poker, in many territories.
However, there are signs that new player sign-ups increased to an average of this is changing.
In particular, if regulation rather 1,494 per day, and there were on average than prohibition is introduced in major markets 51,000 active players per day generating and if the efforts of the European Commission average gross daily poker revenue of $756,700.
are successful in breaking-up many of the stateIn casino, gross revenue was $597,200 per day.
controlled gambling monopolies across Europe, In sports betting gross win per day was $75,700 then the impact on future growth for the and in bingo, average gross daily revenue was industry and for PartyGaming will be significant.
Whist optimistic about the longer term, the In the 4 weeks ended 4 March 2009, average short-term outlook for the global economy gross daily revenue was $1,536,200.
In poker, remains uncertain and there is no question that new player sign-ups averaged 1,550 per day we, along with many other businesses, face a and there were on average 51,100 active challenging macroeconomic environment in players per day, generating average gross daily the months ahead.
In casino, average gross daily revenue was $662,500, in sports betting, average gross win per day was $123,000 while in bingo it was $12,200.
28 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 However, we have a clear strategy and roadmap for 2009.
In terms of overall goals, I am determined that we build on our market position across all products with a particularly strong opportunity to grow casino and sports betting through customer acquisition.
In poker I am confident that we can develop a meaningful white label and services strategy by entering into a number of additional agreements with third parties.
This will both add player liquidity and provide an incremental revenue stream for the business.
The online gaming market is ripe for consolidation and as a management team we are determined that we play an active part.
Our business model is both flexible and robust with a capacity to generate strong cashflow.
Our brands and market position are strong and we have a healthy balance sheet with which to execute our business strategy.
I believe that we are in an excellent position, not just to withstand the macroeconomic challenges that may lie ahead, but also to create value for all of our stakeholders and achieve our long-term objective.
We are focused on executing our stated strategy and remain confident about the Groups prospects.
The road ahead Our roadmap for 2009 is already drawn with a range of new games and features scheduled for launch together with those for our new B2B partners.
A PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 29 30 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 B2B Grow the player base Our business-to-business pipeline is a hive of activity.
So far in 2009 we have already struck alliances with CIRSA and DM plc.
