BUSINeSS revIeW Chief Executives Review Sir Bill Gammell, Chief Executive Cairns Rajasthan development continues to grow in scope and scale with first oil production in the second half of 2009.
The Mangala terminal includes the phased construction of four planned processing trains with a combined production capacity of 205,000 bopd, and potential for expansion.
We have established a material frontier exploration position offshore west and 2 south Greenland with 72,000 km under licence and the company continues to examine options for early drilling.
Previous page Nanortalik Port, Island of Qoornoq, south Greenland 16 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 2 More than 3,000 km in Rajasthan are now under long term development contract.
There is further incremental production growth potential across this acreage as demonstrated by the Raageshwari East well, which flowed 500 bopd in December 2008.
The challenge in the coming years will be to exploit the full resource potential in the Barmer basin in Rajasthan through the use of EOR techniques and through further work on the remaining fields including the Barmer Hill reservoirs.
Subject to regulatory approval there is potential to extend and also enhance peak plateau production from the resource base of the Rajasthan fields above the level of 175,000 bopd.
Greenland Cairn strategy has always been to focus on opportunities with A significant frontier exploration position in Greenland has been material growth potential.
For more than 20 years Cairn has been established.
Within the first year of the licence agreements a successful in exploring for, finding and developing hydrocarbons 10,000 km 2D seismic programme in the west and south of and the focus on South Asia has been the cornerstone of the Greenland has been acquired and final processed results for the Groups growth.
Integral to the next stage of growth are the Disko area became available in late March.
The seismic results for Rajasthan development project centred on Mangala, the largest the southern area are expected in April.
This seismic programme of 25 current discoveries on the block and the expansion into has satisfied in full the Groups initial four year exploration work frontier exploration acreage in Greenland.
programme across all of its acreage.
Interpretation of these data sets is now underway.
India Cairn India, in its second year of operation as an Indian listed The first Cairn operated exploration drilling in Greenland is subsidiary, has continued to make good progress across all planned for 2011.
It is however the intention to undertake at least of its business.
three drilling site surveys and to purchase certain long lead items this year in order to preserve the option, should a suitable rig The integrated upstream and midstream project in Rajasthan become available, for exploration drilling in 2010. with local power and water supply is one of the largest onshore oil and gas developments in India with more than 10,000 workers Offshore west Greenland can be considered as containing three currently involved in construction activities in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
separate geological basin areas with various sub-basins: the eight blocks Cairn has acquired are spread across each of these main Preparations for first oil from the Rajasthan fields are on track basins.
The two Disko blocks, for example, lie within the Baffin Bay and the development of the MPT to which the bulk of the other Basin, where to date no offshore drilling has taken place.
field facilities will be connected is well underway.
Construction of the 600 km heated pipeline from the MPT to the coast and In view of the perceived material exploration potential of the complex work in respect of the related facilities is on track.
Greenland, Cairn is still looking to enhance its acreage portfolio, particularly when the Baffin Bay and North East Greenland Basins are put up for bid by the authorities in 2010 and 2012 respectively.
The size and scope of the Rajasthan project has substantially Subject to Government approval the company intends to acquire increased since the original Mangala discovery in 2004 when peak reconnaissance seismic along the coast of east Greenland this production was originally forecast at 100,000 barrels of oil per year where it has applied for a Prospecting Licence.
Today the facilities at the MPT will include the phased construction of four processing trains with a production capacity Financial review of 205,000 bopd and scope for expansion.
In 2008, Cairn has focused on allocating its resources to those assets that will drive shareholder value.
At 31 December 2008 The MBA fields have proven plus probable 2P gross reserves Cairn had net cash of $898m, positive operating cash flows and and 2C resources of almost 700 million barrels of oil equivalent net assets of $2.3bn.
mmboe with a further 300 mmboe of EOR potential presently classified as contingent resource.
Subject to the results of the EOR The Groups existing cash resources, debt facilities and cash project these resources would be expected to be re-categorised flow from operations provide adequate funding to complete over time as additional 2P reserves.
First production from Rajasthan the core Mangala development project plus the pipeline and to is scheduled to commence by trucking in Q3 2009.
The pipeline commence first production in 2009.
However, Cairn will continue and the significant related terminal facilities are currently being built to be ready by Q4 2009.
Mangala plateau production is planned to monitor the credit markets to assess current pricing, and may to reach 125,000 bopd in 2010 with overall plateau production of consider expanding its facilities in due course.
175,000 bopd expected to commence in 2011 from the MBA fields.
Cairn has always maintained a capital structure appropriate The GoI is in the process of confirming multiple nominees for the for its operations in exploration, appraisal and development.
The pipeline routing to a nodal point within the Given the background of global market conditions Cairn decided existing Indian Oil Corporation IOC infrastructure and to coastal to strengthen its equity capital base and earlier this month raised destinations gives Cairn and its partner, ONGC, access to wider a further $161m through a 5% placing of shares.
In order to facilitate the trucking and sale of oil ahead of the pipeline completion, trial runs have been successfully Cairn has entered 2009 with the financial and operational carried out on the route from Mangala to the Gujarat coast.
flexibility necessary to deliver its key project in Rajasthan thereby providing cash flow to target the next phase of growth and continued creation of shareholder value.
Image Above Left to right Murli Deora, Petroleum Minister, GoI: Ashok Gehlot, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Minister of Rajasthan: Hema Ram Choudhary, Revenue Minister, Chief Executive, 6 April 2009 Government of Rajasthan: and R. S. Pandey, Petroleum Secretary, GoI: visit to Mangala Processing Terminal and inauguration of the pipeline work in Rajasthan in February 2009.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 17
