com 8 chief executives statement Matthew Fosh Group Chief Executive market in particular.
This has inevitably slowed the rate Financial performance at which it has been able to deploy capital.
The Group is Pro t before tax in 2008 was 40.2 million, close to the committed to writing pro table business and protecting record 41.0 million in respect of 2007 in both cases after its capital rather than meeting short term income targets.
Trading conditions were more challenging in 2008, with a softer rating environment, volatile Business infrastructure investment markets and a series of signi cant loss events.
Novae has made a major investment in people and systems, The Group has delivered a very robust level of pro ts under with a single uni ed claims and outwards reinsurance team these more dif cult operating conditions.
working across both the Lloyds business and NICL.
Increasing use of technology, from electronic claims les Net assets per share as at 31 December 2008 were up 12% to le monitoring systems and work ow management, has at 420.0p 2007: 375.7p.
Including Novaes off balance sheet transformed the claims function in the past four years.
deferred tax asset, net assets per share were up 10% at 443.9p Novae has also made a major investment in operations.
Net tangible assets per share were up 12% has enabled the Group to lower processing costs as well as at 410.8p 2007: 366.7p.
This compares with 300.0p per exceed Lloyds own targets in areas such as contract certainty.
share adjusted for the share consolidation at which the Business continuity and remote working projects were rolled 2006 rights issue was priced.
out in 2008, as well as work ow management.
The Groups Given the Groups strong capital position the Board has actuarial team has been reorganised to provide a greater declared an additional special dividend of 4.0p per share.
focus on pricing, and the finance and reporting infrastructure This represents the gain arising from the repurchase for has been further streamlined.
cancellation of an element of Novaes 2017 subordinated Ultimately, Novaes fortunes depend on its people.
With the interim dividend of 2.5p Group is committed to a well-motivated, well-trained and final recommended dividend of 7.5p, total dividends and incentivised workforce.
The soft market increases paid and recommended to be paid per share are 14.0p in the pressure on all of the Groups employees, but Novae respect of 2008 2007: 7.5p.
is fortunate in having an exceptional and highly professional workforce.
Operational review The Group made considerable operational progress in Strategic objectives 2008.
New bloodstock and eet motor units were formed, The strategic objectives of the Groups continuing business generating income for the Lloyds business and NICL.
Most remain to seek controlled diversi cation through: existing units in the Lloyds business continued to reduce premium income as rates softened for the first nine months Product: Novae continues to diversify its underwriting of the year.
Following Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and with the addition during 2008 of bloodstock and eet combined with widespread dislocation in the capital markets motor units.
The Group currently expects to underwrite in the autumn the pace of rate reductions slowed, although across 21 underwriting units in 2009, and remains evidence of rate recovery before the year end remained committed to further diversi cation if new teams can patchy.
NICL also chose to cut back income, withdrawing generate an acceptable risk-adjusted return.
Avoiding from UK solicitors and other professional indemnity classes over-exposure to large individual risk pillars which can where pricing remained unattractive in the light of more destabilise the Group is a critical strategic objective dif cult economic conditions and the domestic housing Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 Platform: Novae formed NICL, its wholly-owned material and high pro le that their financial effects can FSA-regulated insurance company, in 2006.
Platform be rapidly assessed diversi cation is important to avoid an over-dependence Exposure to peak losses will be moderated by outwards on Lloyds.
A growing number of underwriting units are reinsurance.
The Group expects to cede around a quarter now writing on both the Lloyds platform and NICL of its premium income to reinsurers.
As the business Route to market: commercial lines insurance continues continues to diversify it will reduce its reinsurance spend to be an intermediated marketplace, and Novae is to around 20% of inwards income committed to working with brokers for the foreseeable Around half the Groups premium income will be written future.
Technology is enabling brokers and underwriters in sterling, with some 40% in US dollars and the balance to reduce or eliminate low value-added tasks such as across a range of other currencies.
The Groups business re-keying of data, in turn reducing costs for assureds.
mix will therefore continue to have a lower US dollar At the same time continuing consolidation in the broking component than many of its peers industry makes it essential to avoid over-dependence on any one intermediary Around 75% of inwards business will be written by the Lloyds platform and the balance by NICL Within this framework capital will only be deployed to support underwriting if it generates an expected return Novaes risk appetite will continue to be strongly biased in excess of the Groups hurdle rate.
Its investment strategy is likely to remain centred on capital preservation and liquidity The scale of the Groups Discontinued Business Unit continues to diminish with the passage of time.
Novaes Chaucer Holdings PLC objective is to manage the run-off of this business in the On 28 January 2009 the Group announced that it had most effective and ef cient way possible from the perspective made an approach to the Chairman of Chaucer Holdings of the Groups capital providers.
This may be achieved PLC with a view to starting discussions regarding a possible through the settlement of individual claims, the commutation all-share merger of the two companies.
On 10 February of inwards and outwards contracts or a transactional solution 2009, Novae made a subsequent announcement con rming with a third party.
In the meantime risk continues to ebb that it had entered into discussions with Chaucer and with 71% of the population of lead claims from 2002 and that due diligence had commenced.
prior having been closed in the last three years.
One of the aims of the due diligence exercise is to con rm Given the Groups strategic goals, Novaes financial and the expected material bene ts that would arise from a operational performance is likely to be guided by the combination of the two groups complementary operations following medium term objectives: and underwriting expertise.
It is anticipated that such The majority of the Groups business will continue to bene ts would accrue from a more ef cient use of capital come from liability classes.
Around two thirds of gross including that element of capital which is currently surplus written premium is expected to be liability and one third to Novaes short term stand-alone requirements, improved from property classes scale and liquidity and synergies in areas such as reinsurance buying and operating infrastructure.
Discussions are Novae will limit inwards reinsurance to aviation and continuing and a further announcement will be made in property catastrophe business.
Although the settlement due course.
period for individual loss events can be several years, such catastrophe events themselves are suf ciently www.
com 10 chief executives statement | continued A merger with Chaucer could bring attractive scale and Claims experience is likely to deteriorate in 2009.
Claims on diversi cation bene ts within the context of the Groups liability business have historically increased during periods strategic objectives, but will only be pursued on terms of economic recession.
Large individual property losses have which will be bene cial to Novae shareholders.
become more frequent and peak losses from US windstorms or other natural disasters are inherently unpredictable.
Outlook Investments Underwriting Over the last six months sterling and dollar interest rates Conditions in insurance markets have changed signi cantly have been cut to unprecedented levels.
There are growing over the course of 2008.
In some areas where there has concerns that a bubble may be developing in UK and been increased claims activity, either as a consequence US government bonds as fide-leveraging and a ight to of US windstorms or the turmoil in financial markets, quality has pushed yields to extremely low levels.
At the rate increases are now evident.
In other areas the transition same time spreads on investment grade corporate bonds to a hard market has been more gradual as a generally have widened to an unusual extent.
at rating environment has replaced the previous In this environment the Group has amended its investment downwards trend.
guidelines to allow a greater weighting towards investment During 2009 the incidence of rate increases and bene cial grade corporate bonds.
This may involve greater volatility, review of terms and conditions is expected to become but the Board believes that this approach represents a more widespread.
The gradual nature of this transition measured response to the changing investment environment to a more favourable environment is in stark contrast while maintaining a generally cautious stance.
to the more abrupt changes often associated with a turn in the insurance cycle.
This re ects the causes of rate hardening, which may well result in the emerging hard market enduring for longer as a consequence.
The Group is currently anticipating that rates will increase across its account as a whole by some 5-10% in 2009, with considerable divergence between segments.
Property and M K Fosh Aviation & Marine are expected to see more signi cant Chief Executive increases, with Specialty broadly in line with the whole and 6 March 2009 Liability at after taking claims in ation into account.
