GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Overall, we delivered a solid set of results with some parts of the Group performing well.
The Group and its businesses are well capitalised and our liquidity position remains strong.
We have considerably strengthened our risk management and governance from the centre.
Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive OVERVIEW 2008 presented major challenges for the Group.
The rapid deterioration in global financial markets, most notably in the fourth quarter, resulted in an extremely dif cult operating environment, while we faced a number of speci c issues in our US Life businesses.
Despite these setbacks, we delivered a strong performance across many parts of the Group, especially in the markets where we have signi cant scale and strong market positions.
During the second half of the year, we took major strides to address the issues in our US Life offshore business and, with these largely contained, toward the end of the year we turned our attention to the future and began a full review of the Groups activities.
During that time we welcomed Philip Broadley to Old Mutual as our new Group Finance Director and we are already bene ting from his experience and skills.
The actions following this review are outlined in more detail below.
Capital adequacy position The Groups pro-forma FGD surplus at 31 December 2008 was in excess of 0.7 billion.
This is in line with our self-imposed target range which ensures we have suf cient headroom to cover any capital issues across the Groups operations.
Page 05 Overview GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued Our Nordic and UK businesses are well capitalised with prudent for us to conserve our capital and retain cash.
solvency ratios of 9.9 times and 2.6 times the required Accordingly, the Board has determined that in order to level respectively.
Our European businesses are capital conserve cash and capital during the current period light by their nature and therefore present very little of economic stress, no dividends will be paid by the capital risk.
In South Africa, we have the strongest Company during 2009.
The Board will consider the capital position and credit rating in the long-term position in respect of a final dividend for 2009 at the insurance industry, with a surplus in OMLACSA of appropriate time in light of the then prevailing market 3.8 times the required level.
Nedbanks key ratios also and economic conditions.
Longer term, the Board will demonstrate its capital strength.
In the case of US look to pay a dividend based on the Groups capital, Life, during 2008 we took action to maintain capital in cash ow and earnings, with a view to maintaining the onshore business at three times its required level.
cover of at least two times.
314 million of cash was injected into the US Life offshore business during 2008.
This business now has Strong sales and earnings growth in South Africa signi cant excess capital over its regulatory requirement.
In the markets where our businesses are highly developed and we have strong brands, we delivered We have carried out signi cant capital stress testing.
excellent growth in both sales and pro t. In South Africa, Historically, the highest global default rates during a life and unit trust sales in local currency grew by recession have averaged 1.6 percent for investment 14 percent and 33 percent respectively and there grade Source: Moodys.
Applying these historical high was a signi cant reduction in net client cash out ows.
default rates to our portfolio would generate losses The boutique model of our South African investment which can be absorbed within our FGD surplus.
management business has continued to bed down well, Actual defaults on our corporate bonds for the with the majority of our boutiques delivering a better year were 85 million resulting in a default rate of investment performance than in 2007.
Old Mutual South approximately 1.3 percent on our corporate bond Africas adjusted operating pro t on an IFRS basis was portfolio.
Our FGD surplus would enable us to up 14 percent to R8 billion and the return on equity was withstand eight times that rate in a single year.
up nearly four percentage points to 27.8 percent.
This is The Group has available cash and facilities of over an excellent result given the fall in equity markets and 600 million as at 31 December 2008. tightened consumer spending, and demonstrates the strength of our diverse product offering and our ability Dividend to adapt to an ever-changing market environment.
During 2008 we paid an interim dividend of 2.45p In contrast to the negative forecast GDP in the UK and per share.
However, in view of the unpredictability of US, the South African economy is forecast to grow by 1.2 market conditions and continued uncertainty around percent in 2009 Source: South Africa National Treasury the performance of financial markets, we believe it is and, while it is facing its own challenges, the South African banking sector remains in good health, with the inter bank lending market continuing to operate ef ciently.
Despite an increased level of impairments, Nedbank delivered an We have carried out a thorough adjusted operating pro t on an IFRS basis of R8.8 billion, down just 5 percent on 2007, and a return on equity of review of the Groups activities.
17.7 percent with Tier 1 capital at 9.6 percent.
While we have some valuable Skandia building market share across Europe Skandia saw positive net client cash ows across all businesses with high quality its divisions and the drop in funds under management relative to the much larger fall in the equity markets was people, there is a fundamental very pleasing, re ecting good product innovation and investment performance.
In Nordic, strong cash in ows need for change.
We will look were driven by a 30 percent increase in life sales to SEK2.6 billion and adjusted operating pro t on an IFRS for opportunities to streamline basis was up 23 percent to SEK1.1 billion.
This was largely as a result of the introduction of new products and, in particular, growth in the unit-linked business in our portfolio of businesses Sweden.
This was very much against the trend seen in the UK and across the rest of Europe, given the as market conditions allow general ight from equities which resulted in a signi cant drop in unit-linked sales.
However, across Europe, we and we can create value increased our market share, which will stand us in good stead when equity markets recover.
Page 06 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 In the UK, the relative decline in sales was largely due We are in the process of transforming our onshore to reduced demand for unit-linked products, especially business into a sustainable operation, based on lower bonds and single-premium pensions, although Skandias but more pro table sales, from a considerably reduced market share across the entire pensions market, and cost base.
We have eliminated unpro table product especially single-premium personal pensions, remained lines, and are focused on selling less capital-intensive, strong.
The core of our business is providing customers more customer-centric products through closer with a choice of products which are transparent, exible relationships with our core distribution partners.
We and tailored to their speci c needs and risk appetite, but have consolidated a number of locations from which the which also provide attractive returns.
Therefore, unlike business operated and reduced headcount.
A strong many of the UK life insurers, we do not undertake any expense discipline has been established along with with-pro ts or bulk annuity business and therefore our a more conservative risk culture.
capital requirement is much lower.
While our sales have In the offshore business more precise fund-mapping has been affected by market volatility in the short-term, we improved our hedging, which was 92 percent effective believe that Skandias open-architecture model is at the during the fourth quarter, and we have a much better forefront of the modern savings and investment market understanding of sensitivities to further market and and that this will deliver excellent long-term value.
Whilst sales have fallen dramatically We also launched a re-pricing initiative in order to build due to the withdrawal of problem products, we are now our share of the platform market, while increasing the focused on rebuilding this business through writing range of investment solutions to create wider customer sensible, specialist investment products tailored to our appeal during this period of market volatility.
For international customers needs, which will underpin a example, the Spectrum range of risk-controlled funds good recovery in future pro tability.
launched in April attracted more than 120 million of subscriptions by the year-end and the UK Strategic Review of Business Best Ideas Fund was the best performing UK fund Over the last four months, with the help of management in the IMA UK All Companies Sector in 2008. consultants, we have conducted a thorough review of every part of our business.
Our overriding conclusion is Resilient net client cash ows in US Asset that while we have some valuable businesses with high Management quality people, there is a fundamental need for change.
US Asset Management continued to deliver strong We have therefore identi ed five key priority areas.
long-term investment performance and our diversi ed asset mix provided resilience in dif cult markets.
Maintain and strengthen our capital position income and alternatives make up over half of the total As outlined above, our capital and liquidity position funds under management, which were down 28 percent remains healthy.
However, in the current environment, to $240 billion compared to an overall US market decline continuing to manage our capital responsibly must be of approximately 40 percent.
Excluding the cessation of our top priority.
securities-lending at Dwight Asset Management, net client cash ows were positive.
This is an excellent result 2.
Streamline the portfolio over time at a time when signi cant net out ows are being We recognise that our portfolio of businesses is too experienced across the industry.
We operate in too many geographies and have market decline, especially in the fourth quarter, caused a too many lines of business, a number of which are signi cant reduction in performance fees, although this sub-scale in their respective markets.
This makes was partially offset by a much reduced cost base.
the Group complex and dif cult to manage on a decentralised basis as we have done in the past.
Actions to stabilise US Life and return It therefore requires simpli cation.
to pro tability However, in the current environment, major Overall, the performance of our US Life businesses were rationalisation of our portfolio of businesses would heavily impacted by increased reserves related to certain be extremely dif cult and, if achievable, would almost single-premium immediate annuities, write-downs in certainly destroy value for our shareholders.
At this relation to deferred acquisition costs and hedge losses stage, we have therefore concluded that it will take related to variable annuity products.
Dif cult credit some time to achieve our optimal business structure.
markets resulted in higher impairment losses than in That said, we have already taken some actions where 2007 and market conditions had a major impact on the it has been sensible to do so, namely: level of unrealised losses on our xed income portfolio, as is the case across the industry.
Both oversight and We have agreed to the sale of our Australian business governance have been strengthened considerably and We have exited Portugal the management team has taken a number of actions in We have rationalised our businesses in continental the second half of 2008 aimed at fide-risking the business Europe, creating two hubs based in Berlin and Paris and generating pro table returns.
for the mass market and af uent markets respectively Page 07 Overview GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued While we remain committed to our established 5.
Strengthen governance and risk management businesses in India and China, we will scale back In 2008 we started to invest in additional risk resources signi cantly our aspirations in the Far East and will people and systems and, as a result, our risk and therefore close our of ce in Hong Kong.
governance processes have been signi cantly strengthened.
The next priority is to embed those We are also moving the governance of our businesses processes across the Group.
One consequence of these to a more centralised model which we believe will reduce initiatives is that we are rolling out a business level risk risk and bring better control.
appetite, which sets the mandatory risk levels each We will look for opportunities to make further changes business must adhere to.
as market conditions allow and we can create value for We have also formed iCRaFT integrated Capital, shareholders.
We do not need asset sales in order to Risk and Financial Transformation.
This programme is raise capital and any streamlining activity will be based essentially aimed at ensuring we become fully compliant on enhancing ef ciency and our strategic focus.
with Solvency II, the new regulatory regime being introduced for all European-domiciled insurers.
Leverage scale in our long-term above compliance, our programme aims to implement savings businesses best practice in the way that we measure and manage We intend to bring all our long-term savings businesses risk, capital and financial performance.
We then integrate into a single operating structure.
Skandia, OMSA, these in the way that we run our businesses, and in the US Life and Asia Paci c will report to a single executive, implementation of best practice financial controls.
Paul Hanratty, who will relocate to London as Head of Long-Term Savings.
To ensure we manage these various Group initiatives effectively, we have appointed Paul Maddox on We believe that there is a signi cant amount of value secondment from Ernst and Young as Head of Strategic that can be unlocked by these businesses working Implementation.
Paul will be a member of the Group more closely together.
For example: Executive Committee with responsibility for driving We can deploy the distinctive technology and through the change programme.
capabilities within our South African, UK and Nordic platform businesses more effectively across the Group Outlook We believe there are operational cost ef ciencies Many of our businesses have performed well in a very that can be achieved dif cult operating environment.
This performance We have product capability that can be used across provides us with an excellent base from which to deal the business.
with the challenges presented by the current economic climate and the continued financial market volatility.
Drive value creation within, and between Going forward, I am determined to rigorously drive our South African businesses performance improvement and strengthen governance, We have already created signi cant value through while at the same time looking for opportunities to co-operation between Nedbank and OMSA, delivering reshape the Group.
synergies in excess of R1 billion in annual pre-tax pro t. We now have a rm commitment to all our South African Julian Roberts businesses and believe that there is more value that can Group Chief Executive be achieved through their closer co-operation.
4 March 2009 Tom Boardman remains a member of my Group Executive Committee and both he and Paul Hanratty will be tasked with delivering greater synergies between Nedbank and OMSA as well as agreeing and delivering on new bancassurance targets.
Nedbank, which has several wealth management joint ventures with Old Mutual, may also acquire those joint ventures during the year, in exchange for Old Mutual taking an increased shareholding in Nedbank.
Mutual & Federal will focus on increasing pro tability, strengthening the balance sheet and driving greater co-operation with Nedbank and OMSA.
Page 08 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Philip Broadley Julian Roberts Group Finance Director Group Chief Executive Page 09 Page 09 Q&A When a complex and diverse group changes tack and begins to rede ne and simplify itself, it is easy to obscure good intentions with business jargon.
In this short Q&A, Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive, and Philip Broadley, Group Finance Director, clarify some of the strategic decisions.
With the announcement With the focus on longof your new priorities term savings, how does and structure, whats Nedbank t into the really different?
Whats changed most signi cantly is the The particular shape and history of Old Mutual formation of a new international division in our heartland, South Africa, makes Nedbank focusing on long-term savings business an extremely important element of our as our central capability.
Of course asset comprehensive financial services offering there.
management is very important to us and the Not only are the financial needs of both new organisational structure makes this clear.
Old Mutual and Nedbanks customers We are also measuring success in terms comprehensively covered through the of pro t rather than size.
products and services of both companies, but the potential for each company to sell Previously, we had structured around regions to each others customer base is enormous.
and countries, effectively isolating similar businesses in different countries from each In addition, real annual savings realised other.
Now, in identifying and creating the through synergies between Mutual and long-term savings structure, we have grouped Federal, Nedbank and Old Mutual South these homogeneous businesses into a single Africa account for over R1bn.
The untapped division under a single head.
We believe potential for even further synergies is a prize that this will allow us to leverage and share worth ghting for.
Tom Boardman sits on the the capabilities, marketing know-how and Old Mutual Group Executive Committee people across geographic boundaries and precisely because the extraction of this minimise duplication.
value is too much of a priority not to have the bank represented at the highest levels The operating model has also been revised.
To date, the businesses have operated in a federal, decentralised basis, with the centre Nedbank is a very well run business and playing a relatively light role in governance, within the disciplined and prudent banking risk and human resources.
That will no longer environment which is the South African be the case.
Our newly constituted Group banking regime has weathered the effects Executive Committee re ects these changes of the global credit crunch well.
South Africa and has the skills and experience to achieve this year is predicting a positive rate of GDP the levels of control required to make this growth and the growing middle markets are model work.
more and more coming into the banking system.
As the needs of this group develop, Finally, we are moving to an increasingly the broader financial services and products, streamlined group and will execute on this as provided by Nedbank, Old Mutual and Mutual and when the market becomes more benign and Federal in a co-ordinated and planned and transactions become economically viable.
way positions us well to capture a greater share of this market.
Page 10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 in uence and role of the greater Group are How do you intend to always prominent in this sense of belonging.
create value whats your Incentive structures stress the importance of the Group performance as well as that investment proposition?
Being international gives employees the One aspect of creating value will be the chance to avail themselves of international building of our core capabilities into markets opportunities across the Group adding to where we are underor un-represented.
the richness of our diversity and leveraging Old Mutuals brand and reach, and its speci c talents where we can.
competencies in the long-term savings arena are highly regarded in South Africa and these We take our Corporate Responsibility very can be deployed elsewhere.
We believe that personal involvement in causes and issues gives our employees an South Africa itself is a strong and resilient added sense of purpose and feeling of giving economy and we expect growth there for back to the society in which they live.
Africa as a whole is also presenting new opportunities for both banking and Whether this is building houses for the long-term savings and there is every reason homeless in South Africa or rowing a boat to believe that Old Mutual can capture from Perth to Mauritius in aid of a charitable a signi cant share of this.
foundation, Old Mutual encourages and supports its people and their personal and Skandia, also in the long-term savings cluster, corporate role in society as part of their has a leading open-architecture platform membership of the Group.
perfectly suited to the growing swathes of customers and intermediaries requiring exibility, transparency, value for money and What factors in uenced choice.
Skandia is dominant in Sweden and the UK.
Our growing presence in selected the final structure of European countries is encouraging and will the Group?
Value will be created through using the We are in eye of an unprecedented global excellent group competencies productively.
The choices we make about We are able to use our scale to reduce our how we operate and the shape we would like unit costs.
We are able to deploy our skills to adopt have been taken in the context of the developed in one part of the world to bolster current market turmoil.
One of our priorities is to streamline our portfolio, When you buy into the Old Mutual Group you which means we will have to make tough are buying scale, managements ability to choices where there are businesses that dont extract value from their own business and t with our longer-term focus, are subscale through synergies and co-operation with other with little prospect of achieving critical mass businesses.
Our incentive structure is or create a dilution of management focus designed to encourage this group behaviour.
But we are not prepared to streamline in an environment Most companies claim where there is little appetite for corporate transactions or when asset sales result in that their people are their value destruction.
So we have to wait until markets stabilise or How important are people unusually attractive terms are presented.
We will not compromise the creation of shareholder in the delivery of your high value just for elegant strategic alignment.
In the meantime, businesses which may fall into this category continue to be well managed People are extremely important to Old Mutual.
and contribute to the Group.
We know no other way of delivering our results.
We recognise in particular the contribution that effective teams as well as talented individuals make to Old Mutual.
We have built programmes for each and every level of employee to take care of their personal growth and team development as valuable and valued individuals.
And while we acknowledge an employees first allegiance will always be to his or her local business, the Page 11 Q&A
