: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives review 14 Achieving sustainable financial growth in an unpredictable market lending in the prime credit market but it is In the last annual report I said less volatile and so easier to price for the risk that although no one could know it presents.
We are not spread throughout the precisely where major world world with all the extra risks that presents: rather, we trade solely in the UK and Ireland economic events stemming from a market we know well, having operated in the the credit crunch would lead, UK since 1880.
And we borrow and lend in the most prudent way by borrowing long and there were several key factors lending short.
that should have given our This straightforward approach, combined with stakeholders confidence that effective management throughout the group, has Provident Financial was unlikely proved to be the right formula for these turbulent times.
Our results for 2008 would be good in any to be adversely affected in 2008. year but in a year which has seen unprecedented upheaval we are particularly pleased.
The chart to the right shows the Total Shareholder Return Since that time, the world economic situation TSR for FTSe 250 companies in 2008.
You can has become significantly worse.
We are pleased see that Provident Financial has produced a to report that as we predicted, the group has not Peter Crook positive TSR since demerger compared with a been adversely impacted by the worsening Chief Executive sharp fall in the TSR of the FTSe 250. financial situation during 2008.
Of course, as the economic crisis deepens, It is worth reiterating why we have not been we may not remain totally unaffected.
Rising affected by these events to the same extent that unemployment and the increased level of other financial companies have.
We adopt a impairment that may follow in its wake is a straightforward approach to our business.
particular issue for credit companies so we are We do not have the type of complex financial actively working to ensure impairment is kept products that are difficult, even for those in the at an appropriate level.
industry, to understand: rather, we lend very small amounts to ordinary people.
Impairment of our loan book may be higher than those Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives review continued 15 Total number of employees 3, 400 Increase in Consumer Credit Division customer numbers 6.
8% 120 Provident Financial FTSE 250 100 80 60 40 20 0 Jul 07 Sep 07 Nov 07 Jan 08 Apr 08 Jun 08 Aug 08 Oct 08 Dec 08 Our values will help us Our core values to run our business in a sustainable, responsible Fair We are fair and reasonable in our dealings with way, to the benefit of all stakeholders.
our stakeholders and be a source of pride Responsible We conduct our business dealings responsibly and ensure for our employees.
that we have a positive impact on the environment and communities we serve.
Accessible We provide our customers with access to products which meet their needs.
Straightforward We are straightforward, open and honest in all our dealings.
Progressive We anticipate and respond to the challenges of a changing world.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc TSR relative to FTSE 250 rebased to 100 : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives review continued 16 Consumer Credit Division year Our strategy Our home credit business continued to end receivables Our aim is to be the leading non-standard lender grow and major steps were taken to modernise of choice in the UK and Ireland, generating good the business with the introduction of new returns to reward shareholders and to fund computer systems and further refinement 852.1m growth.
At present, the best returns come from of marketing techniques.
organic growth which is where our energies are We increased our investment in Real Personal being applied.
Finance which is extending our reach in the ten Increase in Vanquis Bank Our strategy to achieve this growth is to expand million strong non-standard credit market customer numbers and modernise our home credit business, to through its unsecured direct repayment credit scale up our credit card business to achieve products.
significant profitability, and to develop new 2 7.8% And we made further progress in bringing products in the non-standard credit market to Vanquis Bank firmly into profit and up to extend our reach.
operational scale by relocating to a new state We have a prudent approach to the financial of the art call centre in Chatham.
management and funding of the business.
These are significant achievements, particularly Our objective is to be the Society quite properly expects the highest when combined with prudent financial UK and Irelands leading standards in every area of a companys operation management and a strong commitment to lender in the ten million and so we have formalised and articulated the corporate responsibility.
A more detailed report strong non-standard values that have underpinned our business for on our progress against our strategy can be credit market.
many years, and by which we will operate and found in the reports on the individual businesses.
These values help drive our Our objective is to be the UK and Irelands commitment to corporate responsibility including leading lender in the ten million strong nonhigh levels of customer satisfaction and standard credit market.
This means having investment in the local communities in which our strong market positions in each of our customers and agents live and our staff work.
businesses, operating in a sustainable fashion, We made good progress against our strategy being a highly regarded corporate citizen, and having high customer satisfaction ratings.
Peter Crook Chief executive 3 March 2009 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
