Group Group Chief Executives report As well as reaffirming our strategy, these Mark Tucker results also reflect the operational expertise Group Chief Executive and excellence that our operating divisions around the world bring to bear, and fully justify our commitment to nurturing the financial strength of the Group through prudent management of capital resources.
10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Ov Overvie erview w I am pleased to report that Prudential delivered On the statutory International Financial Reporting Standards a strong performance in all its businesses in 2008, IFRS basis, operating profit before tax from continuing and maintained a healthy capital position despite operations increased by 12 per cent to 1,347 million.
As a the banking liquidity crisis in mid-year and the result, our IFRS operating profit before tax has now grown at onset of the most severe worldwide recession a compound annual rate of 21 per cent since the end of 2004. in more than a generation.
Operating profit in the Groups asset management operations increased by 11 million to 345 million in very difficult trading This achievement once again demonstrated the soundness conditions in all markets.
Net inflows at M&G were 3.4 billion of the strategy the Group has followed in recent years.
and our asset management business in Asia recorded net Our selective spreading of geographic risk across different inflows of 0.9 billion.
continents and types of economy, our focus on the most profitable opportunities in the preand post-retirement Equally important, our Group capital position remains robust.
sector in each of our chosen markets, and our resolute refusal Using the regulatory measure of the Insurance Groups to pursue sales volume targets at the expense of profit have Directive IGD, the Groups capital surplus was estimated at once again proved their worth.
We have said in the past that 1.7 billion with a solvency ratio of 162 per cent.
Through an this is a formula for outperformance, and this has held true innovative transaction we have been allowed by the regulator amid the particularly testing conditions of recent months.
to include 0.3 billion of the shareholders economic interest in the future transfers from the UK With-Profits Fund, which As well as reaffirming our strategy, these results also reflect in total was worth 1.7 billion at 31 December 2008.
Going the operational expertise and excellence that our operating forward, there is the opportunity to develop similar transactions divisions around the world bring to bear, and fully justify our which may allow us to access more of the residual 1.4 billion commitment to nurturing the financial strength of the Group if required.
through prudent management of capital resources.
Our IGD position will be further strengthened during 2009 Before describing our performance for 2008 in detail, I by around 0.8 billion on completion of the transfer of the would like to make a brief comment on my decision to leave agency back-book business in Taiwan, a transaction that Prudential at the end of September 2009 after four and a half we announced on 20 February 2009. years as Group Chief Executive and a total of 25 years with the Group.
This was not an easy decision, but I believe the In addition to this strong capital position, the total credit Groups continued progress in 2008 confirms the success reserve for the UK annuity shareholder business is 1.4 billion.
of the measures taken over the last four years to strengthen We also retain significant flexibility and capacity for other the Groups financial and strategic positioning, and having management actions to improve and protect our position achieved this the time seems opportune to step aside so still further, were the need to arise.
that the Board can entrust the next stage of the Groups development to a successor with a full term ahead of him.
Taking all these factors into account alongside our proactive approach to risk management, we are confident that our I am deeply proud of what the team here has achieved under Group remains resilient to any further deterioration in market my leadership, and am also deeply impressed by the quality conditions across all asset classes.
of my successor, our current Chief Financial Officer, Tidjane Thiam.
Going forward, I know Tidjane will do an outstanding Our cash flow position has been improving over a number of job as Group Chief Executive.
years, and in 2008 we achieved our target of being operating cash flow positive at the Group level, with a cash surplus of Group performance 54 million.
Turning to our performance during 2008, our Group operating Given this robust financial position, the Board has profit before tax from continuing operations, on the European recommended a final dividend of 12.91 pence per share, Embedded Value EEV basis, rose to 2,961 million, an bringing the full-year dividend to 18.90 pence per share, an increase of 17 per cent.
This means our EEV operating profit increase of five per cent.
The dividend is covered 2.24 times before tax has grown at a compound annual rate of 25 per cent by post-tax IFRS operating profit from continuing operations.
The Groups return on embedded value was 15.0 per cent 2007: 15.4 per cent.
EEV operating profit from IFRS operating profit from continuing operations before tax m continuing operations before tax m 17% 12% 2008 2,961m 2008 1,347m 2007 2,530m 2007 1,201m 11 Group Chief Executives report continued Our strategy The Groups particularly strong association with the Asian The Groups overriding objective remains the generation region, which has been our primary focus for investment and of sustainable value for our shareholders, resulting from expansion in recent years, has also been vindicated by recent sound strategic positioning to capture long-term growth events.
Of course, Asian markets did feel the impact of the opportunities in the preand post-retirement market, global financial turmoil in mid-2008, and the regions economic combined with a focused approach to delivering the optimal performance has undoubtedly suffered as a consequence of level of capital-efficient profitable growth in the short and the downturn in Western markets for its goods.
Asia was the only region worldwide to record high single-digit economic growth in 2008.
Going forward, we believe that The bedrock of our strategy is to be both highly international Asias fundamentals of continued economic growth, increasing and very selective.
We look to maintain an internationally mass affluence and shifting demographics will continue to be diverse portfolio of businesses, embracing countries that powerful drivers of profitable growth in the future.
In line with are at different stages of economic development but which our stated strategy to review acquisition opportunities, we did all share one key attribute: the opportunity for us to build look at AIA's assets in Asia.
Following careful consideration a market-leading operation with prospects for sustainable against our strict financial criteria and our strategic objectives, long-term profitable growth and a superior rate of return on we decided not to proceed with an offer for any of these assets.
In every market we choose to enter, we also benefit from an operating model that enables each of our businesses The US remains the largest retirement market in the world, to stay close to its customers and their needs when formulating validating our strategy to position Jackson to meet the preproduct and distribution strategies, while taking a consistent, and post-retirement needs of the baby-boomer generation.
disciplined Group-wide global approach to managing risk, As in the UK, the retirement and near-retirement population capital and cash.
will represent the fastest growing segment of the market in the US over the next decade.
Within this proven framework, we maintain a strong and consistent focus on the retirement savings, income and Overall we believe that our strategy, and the consistency with protection sectors.
This has many different facets, ranging which we execute it, are the core factors that differentiate us from providing regular savings products that accumulate from our peers.
funds for retirement, through healthcare protection at all ages, to helping those entering or already in retirement to Product and distribution strategy organise their finances so as to secure an efficient retirement In all our operations, our aim is to have a suite of products income.
As demographic and welfare trends worldwide that delivers good value and meets customers needs without continue to reinforce the need for personal savings to provide being unduly capital intensive or leaving the Group overly income in retirement, and as the baby-boomer generation exposed to the economic cycle.
While we would not claim in the Western world makes the transition from employment to be recession-proof, we have shown that we are recessioninto retirement, our strong presence, assets and capabilities resistant.
The need to fund retirement savings and provide in the sector will position us to capture a disproportionate for income in retirement is not going to go away and this share of this growing profit pool over the coming years.
makes our revenue streams highly resilient, even though at different points in the cycle customers may prefer to achieve their goals through different products and investment options.
Market dynamics People are living longer More active retirement People want to retire at an earlier age Need for more long-term savings Underestimating savings required for retirement Need for income and protection Increased cost of long-term care in retirement Reduction and withdrawal of state pension benefits Protection of purchasing power 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Ov Overvie erview w In Asia, we continued to benefit in 2008 from our focus Our operating model also enables us to be flexible in on regular premium products, as sales of single premium distribution, identifying and developing the specific products suffered amid the market dislocation experienced distribution mix that will create the optimal value in each in the second half of the year.
In addition, the breadth of our market.
In Asia, for example, we are unique in that we have offering enabled us to refocus our energies on higher-margin developed both the largest regional network of tied agents health and protection products, and also on with-profits for and also excellent partnerships with Standard Chartered and the more cautious investor.
many other banks across the region.
In the United States, our highly successful distribution model focuses on our industry In the US, the prevailing economic uncertainty and equity leading wholesaler teams, who offer genuine added-value market volatility had a negative impact on variable annuity to the independent financial advisor channel while also sales in 2008.
However, fixed annuity product sales increased distributing products through Regional Broker Dealers and as customers became more risk averse.
In the UK, we have a diverse multi-channel approach across the annuity product range enabled us to anticipate including direct sales, financial advisers and partnerships.
this change and meet shifting demand.
We executed this change while maintaining our disciplined approach to In asset management, our businesses achieve similar flexibility pricing, despite intense price pressures in the variable through a multi-channel, multi-geography distribution annuity market.
Our successful hedging of variable annuity approach in both the retail and institutional marketplaces.
guarantees meant our equity hedging gains more than A further manifestation of our flexibility is our portfolio of offset the drop in equity markets during the year.
Brands create value through During 2008, Prudential's UK Insurance Operations benefited their relationship and resonance with customers.
Whether you from our strength in the individual annuity market, supported look at Prudential, Jackson, M&G or any of our other brands, by a significant flow from internal vesting pensions and each has a clear personality and values that helps us build and continuing high conversion rates.
sustain customer loyalty and trust.
The benefits of this trust were especially apparent in 2008, when the collapse in At the same time, with consumers seeking greater security consumer confidence in the financial services sector saw and stability amid unprecedented market volatility, the financial us benefit from a concerted 'flight to quality'.
strength of our with-profit funds and our long-term investment performance, proved to be further advantages.
We remain Risk and capital management a market leader in both individual annuities and with-profits, The events of 2008 have put the balance sheets and capital as well as in the corporate pensions market and the emerging positions of all insurance companies under close scrutiny.
Few anticipated the depth of the banking crisis or the speed of Across our asset management businesses we have broad onset of recession in the western economies.
But at Prudential multi-asset capabilities covering all asset classes.
Once again, we entered 2008 in a generally defensive mode in expectation these enable us to tailor our offerings to changing market of a general downturn in the economic outlook and this conditions and customer preferences.
M&Gs investment certainly stood us in good stead as events unfolded.
performance and distribution strength were key drivers Despite the downturn, the capital position of the Group behind M&Gs robust profits, net sales performance and remained strong in 2008, in the face of a testing combination clear relative outperformance.
of highly volatile and declining equity markets, falling interest We are also maintaining our proud track record of innovation rates, widening spreads on corporate bonds, and rapidly in product design.
In the UK in 2008 we introduced an deteriorating credit conditions.
Our defensive stance on income drawdown product and enhanced lifestyle pricing credit exposure in particular served us well as did the for annuities.
And we continued to build on our success in the comprehensive equity hedging strategies that we had put with-profits sector by extending our multi-asset capabilities in place in the US to protect against product guarantees.
In Asia we continue to build our health and protection product range, and have enjoyed great success in developing Shariah-compliant products in both Indonesia and Malaysia.
Projection of population aged 55 million Asia United States United Kingdom Asian households are changing rapidly: they As 78 million baby-boomers move in to The retirement and near-retirement are becoming wealthier, smaller and older, retirement age, their assets will shift from population will represent the fastest-growing with a growing need for financial solutions.
asset accumulation to income distribution.
segments of the market over the next 10 years.
2025 816m 2025 109m 2025 24m 2020 714m 2020 101m 2020 23m 2015 615m 2015 91m 2015 21m 2010 535m 2010 80m 2010 19m 2005 452m 2005 70m 2005 18m 13 Asset Group Asia United States United Kingdom management Group Chief Executives report continued 2008 Priorities Given the crisis in the global banking industry in 2008, it is Group holding company operating cash worth restating the fundamental differences between life flow positive in 2008 insurers and banks a distinction that extends to the two Maintain robust capital position industries business models, capital ratios and regulatory Deliver growing dividend, determined after needs.
Insurers do not borrow short and lend long, do not taking into account the Groups financial give out credit, are structurally long in terms of liquidity, and flexibility and opportunities to invest in are much better able to hold assets to maturity without risk areas of business offering attractive returns of forced selling at depressed prices.
Targeting 2 times cover over time Equally important, at Prudential effective capital and risk management are central to our approach to managing the Group.
We took to heart the lessons from the last downturn Expand the agency force and continue in 2002 and 2003, and responded by improving our skills base, to improve productivity reducing concentration levels, and managing our exposures prudently, but proactively.
These measures paid off in 2008.
Maximise the potential from non-agency distribution and add new partners During the year we also took the decision not to proceed with Further develop direct marketing channels the reattribution of the inherited estate in the UK With-Profits and up-sell and cross-sell Sub-Fund of Prudential Assurance Company.
This decision Increase focus on retirement services was taken after an exhaustive review of the potential benefits and health products and disadvantages of such a move for policyholders and shareholders, the conclusion from which was that it would be in their best long-term interests to maintain the strength and stability inherent in the status quo.
This cautious approach on Continue to innovate around our key behalf of policyholders and investors was supported at the variable annuity product time by most market commentators, and has been amply Enhance further our already world-class vindicated by subsequent events.
service model We also remain comfortable with the Groups liquidity position Expand retail distribution at both holding and subsidiary company level.
The holding company has significant internal sources of liquidity.
As well as cash and near-cash assets of 1.2 billion more than sufficient to meet all our requirements for the foreseeable future the Group also has in place 2.1 billion of undrawn committed banking facilities.
One result of our consistently cautious capital and cash Build on our strengths in the retirement market and risk products management strategy is our ability to maintain our conservative dividend policy, as reflected in the dividend announced with Migrate to factory gate cautiously these results.
Going forward, our Board will continue to focus managed asset accumulation products on delivering a growing dividend, the size of which will of Deliver on the cost reduction programme course continue to reflect the Boards view at the time of the including the outsource programme Groups financial position and needs, including available Selectively participate in the wholesale opportunities for profitable investment.
The Board believes market that, in the medium term, a dividend cover of around two times Determine whether it is in the is appropriate to maintain a progressive, though conservative, best interests of policyholders and dividend policy.
shareholders to pursue a reattribution of the inherited estate Maintain superior investment performance for both internal and external funds Extend third-party retail and institutional business 14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 2008 Achievements Operating cash flow was positive 54 million in 2008 Full Year dividend increased by five per cent Through prudent and proactive management the Groups Dividend cover of 2.24 times Insurance Groups Directive IGD surplus is estimated at 1.7 billion The surplus will increase by approximately 0.8 billion on completion of disposal of the Groups agency business in Taiwan Increased average number of agents in the region to Continued to develop and launch new retirement 425,000 with the largest increases in Indonesia up orientated products.
For example in Korea and Malaysia 43 per cent to 57,000 and India up 21 per cent to 287,000. variable annuity products were launched that provide Aside from Thailand, all operations grew their agency forces a guaranteed minimum income on retirement Successful bank distribution agreement with Standard Health products have been incorporated into agency Chartered Bank SCB was expanded and extended.
incentive programmes, a standalone health care product was 1 Prudential now works with SCB in nine markets and is launched into the SCB channel with simplified underwriting now exploring more opportunities for protection and and eye-catching media campaigns to capture direct business Takaful products and provide leads for other channels 1 Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, Thailand, China, Vietnam We introduced three new guaranteed minimum Retained and strengthened distribution relationships by withdrawal benefits GMWB and eight new portfolio providing the resources, guidance and services, advisers investment options need most during difficult times Implementation of dedicated, premier service teams Curian Capital, added such a large volume of new selling resulted in overwhelmingly positive feedback from key agreements during 2008 that we needed to expand its producers wholesaling force, which was already the largest in the managed accounts business Jackson recognised as World Class service provider by the Service Quality Management in its latest benchmarking study of North American contact centres We maintained our leadership position in the individual The agreement with Capita to outsource a large proportion annuity market in 2008 with a market share of 24 per cent.
of our policy administration began in April 2008 and we are During the year, we introduced lifestyle pricing and on track to deliver the targeted 195 million of cost savings launched a new enhanced annuity product.
We grew our from the end of 2010 lifetime mortgage market share to 23 per cent and the The transactions completed included the bulk annuity PruHealth joint venture continues to develop strongly.
buy-in agreements with Goldman Sachs for the reinsurance With-profits bond sales were particularly strong in 2008, of APE 30 million of Rothesay Lifes non-profit annuity reflecting the strength of our with-profits offering and an business and with the Trustee of the Cable & Wireless increasing demand for this type of product as consumers Superannuation Fund for the reinsurance of APE 106 increasingly look to protect themselves from market million of liabilities relating to the schemes pensioners in downturns payment.
Our new business margin on our Wholesale bulk annuity and insurer backbook business was 32 per cent We launched PruFund as a fund link, making it available across a range of tax wrappers including our factory gate After extensive assessment, we concluded that maintaining products individual pensions, income drawdown, onshore the current operating model for the With-Profits Sub-Fund and offshore bonds.
In addition, we launched PruSelect, an was in the best long-term interest extended range of unit-linked funds across the pensions of both our current and future policyholders as well and investments products to complement as our shareholders.
We announced in June 2008 that our in-house multi-asset fund range, and these have we would not be proceeding with a reattribution of helped us grow our market share across all these product the inherited estate sets.
We have also gained over 40 new distribution panels with 15 key accounts, enabling us to distribute our factory gate products more widely with intermediaries M&G had a very strong year in 2008 posting record gross Over the three years to December 2008, 35 per cent fund inflows of 16.2 billion, an increase of 10 per cent of M&Gs retail funds delivered top-quartile investment on 2007 performance Net inflows of 3.4 billion compared with net outflows of 334 billion across the European asset management industry and 2.1 billion net outflows from UK asset managers across retail and institutional funds 15 Asset Group Asia United States United Kingdom management Group Chief Executives report continued 2009 Priorities Investing for the future Balancing growth with cash and capital generation Amid all the turmoil in the global markets, it is imperative that we continue to invest for the future to ensure we are Effectively manage the Groups positioned to accelerate out of the economic slowdown risk profile and maintain our record of outperformance.
Deliver growing dividend, determined after taking into account the Groups Key to this will be our ability to prepare for, identify and financial flexibility and opportunities capture emerging growth opportunities.
With this in mind, to invest in areas of business offering in 2008 we continued to reinforce the already strong positions attractive returns of our businesses in our chosen markets and these efforts Targeting 2 times cover over time have continued into 2009, with a particular focus on recruiting the best talent.
Expand the agency force and Improving the efficiency of our operations remains an ongoing continue to improve productivity objective.
As announced in our 2007 full-year results, the first Maximise the potential from phase of our UK cost reduction programme delivered savings non-agency distribution and add of 115 million per annum.
The agreement with Capita, which new partners commenced in April 2008, will ultimately deliver a further Further develop direct marketing 60 million per annum of savings and will enable our UK channels and up-sell and cross-sell business to achieve its total cost savings target of 195 million Increase focus on retirement services by the end of 2010.
In the US we are already a market leader and health products in terms of operational efficiency and have service levels that are externally acknowledged as world class.
We will continue to invest in maintaining and extending this leadership through Capital conservation further systems simplification, enabling us to stay ahead of Continue to focus on improving the competition.
efficiency of operation Outlook It is clear that 2009 will be a challenging year.
Indeed, there is an increasing likelihood that in some parts of the world recession will continue into 2010.
However, the global economy will ultimately rebound albeit at different times and different speeds in different markets.
Given the uncertainty in the operating environment we have taken a prudent approach to our plans for 2009.
This means Build on our strengths in the retirement focusing on balancing new business with cash generation, income and savings market and making it our absolute priority to ensure that our balance Strengthen our distribution capabilities sheet and capital position remain robust.
At the same time, Deliver improvement in operational we will continue to position our businesses to take advantage performance and customer service of any improvement in market conditions.
whilst preserving our focus on costs It is my firm belief that this cautious but proactive strategy Selectively participate in the will allow us both to continue to outperform over the wholesale market economic cycle.
Make the most of our core capabilities and assets including our longevity experience, multi-asset investment expertise, brand, financial strength and large customer base Mark Tucker Group Chief Executive Maintain superior investment performance for both internal and external funds Extend third-party retail and institutional business 16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review Business review 20 Chief Financial Officers overview 34 Risk and capital management: Risk oversight Capital management 44 Business unit review: Insurance operations: Asia, US, UK Asset management: M&G, Asia, US 69 Other corporate information 74 Corporate responsibility review 17 more: transparency 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review We are committed to transparent and open dialogue that increases clarity and understanding about our business.
This is why we continue to place a high priority on our ongoing drive towards greater disclosure to ensure shareholders and policyholders have a complete understanding of our business.
