Group Chief Executives review 2008 Results While a downturn was anticipated, no one could have foretold the unprecedented market disruption and global economic downturn that we now experience.
With roots in economic imbalances across many countries, the downturn has weakened many.
However, that is little consolation for the particular vulnerability that RBS has exhibited.
In 2008 the Groups overall results were bad, with net attributable losses, before goodwill impairments, of 7.9 billion.
This is particularly disappointing since many parts of our business did well, serving customers and generating high quality profitability.
All our Divisions were profitable except Global Banking & Markets GBM and Asia Retail & Commercial Banking.
Even in GBM, underlying income reached 10.2 billion on the back of many strong business performances.
Unfortunately, these profits were more than wiped out by credit and market losses in concentrated areas around proprietary trading, structured credit and counterparty exposures.
Over 50% of these losses pertained As this is my first letter to RBS to ABN AMRO-originated portfolios.
shareholders, I should open by In addition, the change in market outlook and our vulnerability saying how aware we all are of thereto has required a 16.2 billion accounting write-down of goodwill and other intangibles relating to prior year acquisitions, the responsibility for leading this most notably of ABN AMRO in 2007 and Charter One in the US institution into better times.
This non-cash item has minimal impact on capital but does highlight the risk of acquisitions if economic conditions a great importance to 40 million change adversely.
customers, to many corporations and From a capital perspective, successive capital raisings have governments worldwide, to our substantially strengthened the Groups capital ratios.
Reported losses have only partially eroded these, and our core Tier 1 ratio shareholders and to all those in the stood at 7.0% at the end of 2008, pro forma for the conversion communities we serve.
In common with of our preference shares, compared with 4.0% a year earlier.
Additionally, the funded balance sheet was reduced by many, we are facing tough times.
We 93 billion, or 17% in constant currency terms.
Unfortunately, will do our best to work through these, the extreme dislocation of markets has impeded the risk reduction we target, leaving much still to do.
Moreover, the fall in to support our customers and to sterling exchange rates inflates our international balance sheet and this, plus extreme market movements, also increases the restore RBS to standalone financial value of our derivatives balances, albeit recording amounts that health and success.
would be largely netted off under US GAAP.
RBS has strong businesses, and has taken steps to restore its capital base and benefits from clear Government support.
It is our primary task to rebuild standalone strength in the coming years.
4 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The task we face risk concentrations and illiquid originate and hold asset We are intensely engaged in finalising a strategic restructuring portfolios.
The remainder will be risk concentrations, out of plan for RBS.
The goal is to correct those factors that made us footprint assets and smaller, less advantaged businesses particularly vulnerable to the downturn and to adjust further our within our Regional Markets activities across the world.
business to reflect changes in the environment facing our industry.
While the plan will not be complete until the second As part of this effort our representation in approximately 36 quarter of 2009, we have decided a lot already.
of the 54 countries in which we operate will be significantly reduced or sold.
We will remain strong in all our major Our strategic plans will take three to five years to execute, given existing global hubs, however.
the headwinds of economic downturn.
Nevertheless, we expect to make strong and purposeful progress each and every year.
Given the commercial and human sensitivity of these issues, detail on this will not be given until the interim results.
Our aspiration is that RBS should again become one of the worlds premier financial institutions, anchored in the UK but The income, expenses, impairments and write-downs serving individual and institutional customers here and globally, associated with the Non-Core Division in 2008 were and doing it well.
We aim for AA category standalone credit approximately 3.9 billion, 1.1 billion, 3.2 billion and status and to rebuild shareholder value, along the way enabling 9.2 billion respectively.
the UK Government to sell down its shareholding.
In addition to eliminating expenses associated with the NonWe should be known for our businesses and how we manage Core Division, the restructuring plan will make efficiency savings them.
We want to focus on enduring customer franchises, with across the Group, aimed at achieving run-rate reductions by top tier competitive positions where we choose to compete.
2011 of greater than 2.5 billion 16% of 2008 cost base at Our businesses will target 15% return on equity and primarily constant exchange rates.
This will involve re-engineering and organic growth at rates consistent with the markets in which other measures and, regrettably, reductions in employment.
Our businesses should reinforce each other with This target excludes any impact of inflation, incentive pay shared products, customers and expertise.
Our risks should be movements or cost reductions arising from business exits or the diversified, well controlled and proportionate to the business impact of new projects if any.
It includes the 0.5 billion of and customer opportunity.
ABN AMRO integration benefits previously announced but not reflected in 2008 expenses.
We will book one-off charges In management style we want to be purposeful, to make it against these actions over the next three years, with run-rate happen for our customers and then for our shareholders.
We will cost savings expected to provide payback in 1.5 to 1.75 years.
anchor our efforts in strategic understanding of the businesses, focusing on long-term, quality profitability.
Our business mix We plan to retain each of our major business Divisions since should be more biased to stable customer businesses than before.
we believe, with intensive restructuring, they can meet the We aim to rely less on volatile, unsecured wholesale funding.
attractive business characteristics outlined as targets above.
In many cases the restructuring of these businesses to Strategic Restructuring Plan achieve our goals will be far-reaching.
The greatest element of We have embarked on a sweeping restructuring of the Group restructuring will be in GBM.
A substantial shrinkage of size, that will fit our activities to the goals above.
While the details of product and geographic scope will take place.
This should the Strategic Plan will be refined over the coming weeks, we are leave GBM positioned around those of its existing core now able to announce the following: strengths that rest on profitable customer franchise business with significantly less illiquid risk overall.
We will create a non-core Division of RBS during the second quarter of 2009, separately managed, but within the existing At all times we will responsibly compare the value to RBS legal structures of the Group and matrix-managed to of each of our businesses with realistic alternatives and take donating Divisions where necessary.
This Division will have different actions if they prove compelling.
The current state approximately 240 billion of third party assets, 145 billion of of markets for financial assets and businesses offers little derivative balances and 155 billion of risk-weighted assets, immediate encouragement in that regard.
comprising individual assets, portfolios and businesses of the Group that we intend to run off or dispose of during the next Alongside our business restructuring activities will be three to five years.
The specific timetable will vary in each substantive changes to management and internal processes.
case, consistent with optimising shareholder value and risk.
There will continue to be changes of personnel as we promote Approximately 90% of the Non-Core Division will consist of and reassign internal talent and add to our ranks externally.
GBM assets, primarily linked to proprietary portfolios, excess RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Group Chief Executives review continued Our priorities Our Manufacturing Division will re-align with our customer-facing businesses.
Businesses will have clear bottom-line returns, allocated equity and balance sheet and funding goals.
While we drive for profit, there will be a Our aspiration concentration on earnings quality and sustainability, driven RBS should again become one of the worlds by strategic plans, to ensure alignment of our businesses to their markets and their risk targets.
People evaluation premier financial institutions, anchored in the UK but and incentivisation will meet best practice levels to serving individual and institutional customers here support the revised mission of the company.
and globally, and doing it well.
This will be underpinned by a full suite of risk and funding constraints, including concentration limits.
Our aims This major change programme has already begun.
To carry it through while running our continuing business To achieve AA category standalone credit status in difficult markets will test our management capacity.
We expect to be successful overall, though we will inevitably To rebuild shareholder value, along the way have setbacks and make mistakes along the way.
But there enabling the UK Government to sell down its is no alternative.
RBS must change in a far-reaching way.
If shareholding we do that, the strength, quality and power that are already present in our business across the world will be what shines through once again.
We will achieve our aims by Outlook Focusing our activities on serving enduring To make any forecast is hazardous, beyond the expectation customer franchises, with top tier competitive that 2009 will be a very tough year for the world economy.
positions where we choose to compete RBS, in common with all banks, will see some erosion of underlying income levels as a result of weaker business Targeting 15% return on equity in our businesses activity and low interest rates squeezing savings margins whilst credit costs rise, probably sharply.
We hope that Achieving primarily organic growth at rates consistent markets will be less disrupted than in 2008, with lower with the markets in which our businesses operate associated write-downs, but time will tell.
2009 has, in fact, started well for our businesses.
Using proportionately our balance sheet, funding and risk We have confirmed our intended participation in HM Treasurys Asset Protection Scheme APS.
This would be Having businesses that reinforce each other with subject to shareholder approval.
More information will be shared products, customers and expertise made available as soon as practicable.
Notwithstanding the challenging outlook, our businesses Our approach will entail all around the world are inherently good and fully engaged in sustaining as robust a performance as the environment A purposeful management style permits.
And the strategic restructuring we have embarked on will see high levels of activity designed to reposition Making it happen for our customers and then RBS successfully.
for our shareholders I believe RBS can come to be regarded again as one of A strategic understanding of our businesses the worlds premier financial institutions.
My special thanks and a focus on long-term, quality profitability go to all my colleagues around the world serving our customers everyday, and redoubling their efforts to move A business mix more biased than before to RBS forward again.
stable customer businesses Stephen Hester Aiming to rely less on volatile, unsecured Group Chief Executive wholesale funding 6 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
