| | 6 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group CEOs review CONTINUED DELIVERY IN A YEAR OF CHALLENGING TRADING CONDITIONS AND VOLATILE INVESTMENT MARKETS, WE HAVE ONCE AGAIN DELIVERED STRONG RESULTS AND HAVE STRENGTHENED THE GROUPS NET ASSET AND REGULATORY CAPITAL POSITION.
2008 has been another strong year for The combined operating ratio COR for the the Group.
In a year of challenging trading Group was 94.5%.
The underwriting result conditions and volatile investment markets, increased by 38% to 384m with the expected we have again delivered a strong and strong contribution from International.
The investment result was 594m 2007: 629m Across the Group we have continued to and included an 11% increase in investment income take the right action on rate and expenses.
to 654m, offset by a lower level of total gains We have achieved good growth in shareholders 32m compared with 119m in 2007.
This is a funds and our capital position remains healthy, good result and the Group continued to benefit with significant surpluses on both an economic from its low risk investment strategy.
Given the strong investment and underwriting These results continue to demonstrate the performance, the operating result increased by positive impact of our tight operational and 7% to 867m, while profit before tax increased financial management and the benefit of the by 13% to 759m.
Groups strong and diversified portfolio.
This compares with STRONG PERFORMANCE IN 628m last year which benefited from the release CHALLENGING CONDITIONS of 103m of deferred tax provisions in Codan.
In 2008 we increased net written premiums Underlying return on equity remained strong at by 11% to 6.5bn, reflecting our disciplined 18.5%.
Net asset value per share increased by approach in the UK and continued growth 23% to 112p, and by 15% to 101p excluding the in International and Emerging Markets.
WE REMAIN CONFIDENT OF CONTINUING TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE PROFITABLE PERFORMANCE AND WE ARE WELL POSITIONED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MARKET OPPORTUNITIES.
Andy Haste Group CEO INTRODUCTION | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 7 REGIONAL OVERVIEW m 2008 2007 2006 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS INTERNATIONAL 6,462 5,837 5,484 International again delivered a strong top UNDERWRITING RESULT 384 278 310 and bottom line performance.
Net written premiums increased by 19% to almost 3bn OPERATING RESULT 867 814 780 6% on constant exchange driven by growth COMBINED OPERATING RATIO % 94.5 94.9 93.3 in Canada, Scandinavia and Other Europe.
We increased the underwriting profit by UNDERLYING RETURN ON EQUITY % 18.5 21.3 20.7 27% to 262m, and the COR was 91.2%.
In May 2008, we announced plans to double In Personal lines, we increased rate in In Scandinavia, it has been an outstanding year.
the Scandinavian expense savings to 50m Household by 7% and Motor by 4% and The buyout of the minorities was the right thing and achieve an expense ratio of around 14% we have seen continued evidence that to do and the business has performed strongly by mid 2010.
As a result of the actions we the markets hardening.
In Commercial, in attractive markets.
Premiums were up by 16% have already taken, we are well on our way we have maintained our discipline.
to 1.6bn 3% at constant exchange reflecting to achieving both targets.
Motor pricing is back in positive territory, good growth in Commercial, particularly in with Property held flat and only minor Denmark and Norway.
In Canada, premiums increased 26% to around reductions in Liability.
900m 15% on constant exchange, driven In Denmark we grew our SME book by by strong organic growth and the strong The underwriting profit of 57m and COR around 6%, Marine by 10%, and Renewable performance of CNS which was acquired in of 92.9% are good results and were achieved Energy by almost 60% all figures on constant December 2007.
The integration of CNS is on despite the severe winter storms and exchange.
In Norway we signed a further track.
We have consolidated our product range increased large losses.
10 agents during the year and achieved strong growth with Commercial premiums and all new business is on the RSA platform.
up by 65% on constant exchange.
Broker loyalty remains high and customer In Other Europe, premiums increased by retention was very good at 80%.
19% to 0.5bn 2% on constant exchange The underwriting result was up by 64% to and the COR was 97.1%.
Italy continued to 190m, with a COR of 88.3%, over 3 points Johnson, our direct personal business, grow ahead of the market and premiums better than last year.
This was driven primarily finished the year strongly with premiums increased by 3% on constant exchange, by a strong performance from Sweden.
increasing by 24% 14% on constant driven by growth in Personal Motor.
exchange, reflecting the acquisition of TJV in We also continued to build distribution, The rating environment across Scandinavia 2007 and good growth in affinity.
We signed signing 37 new agents in 2008. remains stable and we continue to put rate 35 new sponsorship groups during the year, through the book with single digit increases giving us access to around 240,000 potential In Ireland, the market remained competitive across most lines.
and premiums were in line with 2007.
INCREASE IN NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS COMBINED OPERATING RATIO OPERATING RESULT m % m 6,462 867 94.9 94.5 814 5,837 780 5,484 93.3 CHART CHART x. x % 11% 94.5% 7% 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 | | 8 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group CEOs review continued and increased by 26% 12% at constant We withdrew capacity in areas such as Motor growth in Commercial Fleet.
This offset the exchange after excluding Venezuela, which Fleet and Solicitors Professional Indemnity withdrawal of capacity in lines of business we sold in December 2007.
The underwriting and this was offset by growth in affinity and such as Liability and small and mid corporate result increased by 28% to 23m with a COR our recent acquisitions.
Property where we could not achieve our of 96.4%, reflecting continued positive target returns.
contributions from Asia and the Middle East, We have also taken action on rate, increasing Latin America and the Baltics.
it by 6% in Personal lines and between 2% and Overall retention remained strong at 7% across Commercial lines.
In terms of the economic outlook, as expected we have seen the impact of the We also completed the domestication of our We continued to take action on rate, economic downturn.
We planned for it and Irish business, establishing it as a separate legal increasing Personal Motor rates by 6% and have taken action on expenses to protect entity.
This company started writing Group Household by 5%, and Commercial rates profitability, including reducing headcount by business in 2009, taking advantage of Irelands by 6% in Liability, 7% in Property and 8% in around 400 which represents around 10% lower tax regime.
Across the market we are starting of the Emerging Markets workforce.
to see more consistent rating action from UK major competitors.
In the Baltics, premiums increased by 21% The UK market remains competitive and we are 4% at constant exchange and while maintaining our strategy of targeting profitable The underwriting result was 99m, with the growth has slowed as a result of economic growth, putting rate through where required expected lower level of prior year development conditions, we have taken action to and withdrawing capacity where we cannot and increased large losses partially offsetting the benefits of improved weather.
In Asia and the Middle East, we delivered Premiums increased by 1% to 2.7bn reflecting At our year end results, we announced a new 70m expense savings target for the UK to another excellent result.
Premiums increased our disciplined approach to growth.
The COR be delivered by mid 2010, primarily through by 43% 30% on constant exchange was 97.6%, with the benefit of improved a reduction in headcount of 1,200.
There will with strong growth in UAE Motor and weather offset by increased large losses.
be a one off cost of 80m to deliver this, Construction and Engineering.
which will be treated as a reorganisation In Personal, premiums were up 2% to 1.1bn.
cost in 2009 and will not be included in the We also achieved two significant regulatory MORE TH N continued to perform well, Operating Result.
The savings will be at full milestones.
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with premium growth of 2%.
New business run rate by mid 2010 and together with other we were granted our Royal Decree so we can sales increased by 10% while lower mortgage actions, we are targeting an expense ratio of proceed with our IPO and in China we received originations and new car sales continued to around 14% by the end of 2012. approval to establish our branch in Beijing.
EMERGING MARKETS In Latin America, premiums increased by In Commercial, overall premiums were in line In Emerging Markets, we again delivered 22% 10% on constant exchange with double with 2007 at 1.6bn, with strong growth in strong growth.
Premiums increased by 20% digit increases across Chile, Brazil, Argentina specialty lines, including Risk Solutions which to over 0.7bn 7% at constant exchange and Colombia.
increased by 9%, Marine by 13% and targeted NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS UNDERWRITING RESULT INCREASE IN TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS bn m m 3,839 3,077 2,561 INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL 3.0 262 UK UK 2.7 99 EMERGING EMERGING 0.7 MARKETS 23 MARKETS 25% 2006 2007 2008 INTRODUCTION | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 9 Our associates in India and Intouch in Eastern INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Europe maintained good momentum and premiums increased by 37% to 140m IN WHAT WAS AN EXTREMELY CHALLENGING YEAR 25% on constant exchange.
In India our FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES, 2008 HIGHLIGHTED THE business performed strongly.
We have grown IMPORTANCE OF HAVING A FOCUSED BUSINESS MODEL, ahead of the market and expanded our agency network by around 2,700 new agents.
WITH HIGH LEVELS OF CONTROL AND TRANSPARENCY.
The economic environment deteriorated Given the extent of the financial crisis and Intouch has market leading direct operations markedly in 2008.
Growth decelerated the high degree of government intervention in Poland, the Czech Republic and Russia, sharply in most economies and which has resulted, policymakers are and in February 2009, we announced plans to unemployment began to rise.
The speed engaged in active debate over the acquire the remaining 50% of the business.
and extent of the global slowdown appropriate nature of the future regulatory prompted aggressive action from central environment.
We look forward to working Across the region, we are successfully banks and national governments.
Interest with the European Union institutions on implementing our affinity strategy and in rates were cut to historically low levels and the follow up to the fide Larosire high level 2008 we signed deals with 47 retailers substantial capital injections were provided gr CHAR oupT discussions on financial supervision and financial institutions.
to businesses regarded as essential to which has considered the issues from an national economies.
The banking sector, EU perspective.
These markets remain attractive with good in particular, attracted considerable support.
growth potential, and we are on track to meet Despite these actions, expectations for It is critical that policymakers ensure our target of increasing Emerging Markets net global economic activity remain poor in that any future regulatory regime remains written premiums to 1bn by the end of 2010. the near term.
proportionate and supports sectors which continue to be healthy, such as general STRONG FINANCIAL The rapidly weakening economy caused insurance.
It is also important that the POSITION substantial downward pressure on financial response to the banking crisis does not markets with equity, corporate bond and delay progress on important legislative We continue to benefit from our low risk property values falling sharply.
Complex proposals such as Solvency II, which investment strategy.
90% of the total investment financial securities or structures were presents significant opportunities for UK portfolio is invested in high quality fixed income marked down particularly aggressively.
insur CHAR eT rs that could help the future growth and cash assets.
The fixed interest portfolio Declining asset prices have weighed heavily and stability of the industry.
remains concentrated on high quality short on the insurance sector, particularly life dated assets, with 99% of the bond portfolio companies, which have a high exposure RSA is keen for the EU governments to investment grade, and 83% rated AA or above.
reach agreement on this legislation as soon The bond holdings are well diversified as possible in order to end uncertainty and geographically, with 74% invested in assets Against the backdrop of a weakening allow time for considered implementation.
other than Sterling and 48% invested in non economy, RSA has performed strongly, In the UK we will be monitoring the progress government bonds.
During 2008, the due to the focused and geographically of the Banking Bill to ensure that the impact investment portfolio increased by 11% diversified nature of our business model, of changes to the Financial Services to 14.7bn.
coupled with firm action taken on rate.
Compensation Scheme as regards general Equally, the high quality and transparent insurers is proportionate and risk-based.
Our high quality investment portfolio and nature of our investment portfolio has underwriting discipline have driven our strong meant that we have not suffered unduly capital position.
Shareholders funds increased by 25% to 3.8bn, primarily reflecting after tax profits, foreign exchange and the increase in the pension fund surplus.
The IGD surplus increased by 13% to 1.7bn, representing coverage of 2.5 times the requirement.
| | 10 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group CEOs review continued Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the first time TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES We are committed to providing innovative and to be awarded the Investor Relations ways of addressing those needs and emerging Society award for Corporate Responsibility.
We continue to build and expand our technical risks, including: capabilities.
We appointed Peter Jackson as our new Group Sales Director, responsible for r The provision of energy performance CONFIDENT OUTLOOK building and managing RSAs relationships with management services for commercial key global brokers.
As a global insurer, listening customers, advising them how to reduce We have once again delivered strong results in and working with our global broker partners energy consumption, costs and CO challenging conditions.
With our strong balance 2 and making it easier for them to do business emissions: and sheet, our management actions and diversified with us is key to what we do and this r Our Canadian home insurance, which portfolio, we are delivering sustainable appointment will strengthen that.
provides supplementary coverage to help profitable performance.
customers develop more eco-friendly homes.
We also continue to focus on developing In 2009, we will continue to operate a high employees throughout the business and at all We also remain focused on addressing our quality, low risk investment strategy.
The levels through our major initiatives: own internal impacts.
investment result will be impacted by lower interest rates and continued investment market r Our Technical Academy which we launched In 2008, our Irish business became carbon volatility, however we will continue to take in 2006 to develop the next generation of neutral for the first time, joining our UK action to mitigate this impact.
These actions and talent, now has over 10,000 members across business, with a newly constructed HQ the geographic diversification of the portfolio the Group in the core disciplines of claims, designed to best practice construction and will limit the full impact of falling yields, and in actuarial and underwriting design standards.
2009 we expect investment income to be r The Executive Development Programme is around 2007 levels.
Total gains will continue to now entering its fifth year, bringing together We also launched our responsible procurement be impacted by any further negative market leaders from across the Group to work programme in the UK, assessing 96 of our movements in commercial property values as collaboratively on critical strategic issues suppliers on how they are tackling corporate well as financial market volatility, and we are not r Our Graduate and FastTrack programmes anticipating a positive contribution from total responsibility issues and investigating how involved thirty new employees in 2008 gains in 2009. we can work together to address social and providing structured support and career environmental issues in our supply chain.
paths for new starters and high potential We will maintain our focus on underwriting individuals.
discipline and targeted profitable growth.
Our employees also continued to participate We are seeing signs of economic downturn actively in our corporate responsibility We have continued our focus on employee across the Group, however, we are also seeing programme.
During 2008, building on the engagement.
86% of employees participated in rates beginning to harden in a number of our success of the UK National Volunteer Week our revised Employee Survey and we will use key markets and we continue to take action held in 2007, we launched similar programmes the insights to generate ideas and clear action on rate and expenses.
And as we announced across Canada, Scandinavia and our Asia and plans to make changes across our business.
For the first time with our full year results, we expect to deliver employees were actively encouraged to help a combined operating ratio for 2009 of local communities during work hours with around 95%.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 7,250 volunteers taking part in Community activity across the Group.
This approach We remain confident about the outlook for We take our impacts on society and the ensures an engaged workforce, actively the Group and we are well positioned to take environment seriously, behaving ethically as involved with our local communities.
As an insurer, we aim to ensure customers are protected In recognition of our progress, we were from social and environmental risks, such as pleased to be nominated as a Gold rated climate change.
Times Top 100 Company that Counts, to be included in the ethical investor fund the Andy Haste Group CEO
