16 Carillion plc Our performance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group Chief Executives review John McDonough Carillions strong progress continues to be driven Group Chief Executive by our consistent and successful strategy for sustainable, profitable growth.
This strategy has delivered a sixth successive year of significant earnings and dividend growth, as well as creating a balanced and resilient business.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate responsibility through behaving in accordance with our core values and our award-winning sustainability strategy.
Our strategy Headline objectives Grow support services and Public Private Partnership Support services projects organically and by acquisition.
To grow earnings at operating margins of between four and five per cent.
Develop and market integrated solutions tailored Public Private Partnership projects to the needs of customers, including project finance, To use the strong positions we have established in our chosen design and construction, maintenance and lifetime sectors of the Private Finance market in the UK and Canada to asset management.
win projects in which equity investments will create significant Maintain a strong and selective construction value for the Group.
capability focused on higher added-value contracts for Middle East construction services long-term customers.
To increase Carillions share of revenue from our joint venture businesses in the Middle East from 337 million in 2007 to around 600 million by the end of 2009, at an operating Our values margin of some six per cent.
Construction services excluding the Middle East Openness To increase the operating margins of our construction activities Collaboration in the UK, Canada and the Caribbean in order to improve the Mutual dependency combined margins for all our construction activities, including Professional delivery the Middle East, towards three per cent by 2010.
Sustainable, profitable growth Innovation Risk Operational risk management The impact of the current global economic downturn on the financial stability of our customers, partners and Carillion has rigorous policies and processes in place to identify, suppliers.
mitigate and manage strategic risks and those specific to individual businesses and contracts, including economic, social, Mitigation environmental and ethical risks.
These processes are described Applying rigorous selectivity criteria to the choice of customers, in more detail in the Corporate Governance report on page 49. projects, partners and suppliers, in relation to their financial The more significant areas of risk for the Group and the stability, the security of project funding and contractual terms measures being taken to mitigate and manage them are and conditions.
Risk Managing major contracts to ensure they are delivered We apply our risk management processes to every aspect of our on time, to budget and to the required standards.
operations from choosing our market sectors and the contracts we bid for to the selection of our suppliers and sub-contractors.
Mitigation We also apply them to every stage of a contract from inception Applying rigorous selectivity criteria to ensure that we take on to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit we contracts only where we understand the risks involved and can expect and high-quality services for our customers.
manage them: applying equally rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance.
Section 03 Our performance 17 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our strategic and financial performance against seven Group key performance indicators KPIs, which reflect our strategy, is discussed on pages 18 to 20.
Our performance against the specific objectives set for each of our financial reporting segments is discussed in more detail in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 22 to 34.
Group key performance indicators in 2008 and progress Deliver revenue growth of at least five per cent Attract, develop and retain excellent people by 1 Revenue in 2008 increased by 32 per cent.
becoming an employer of choice We continued to implement successful leadership, personal Achieve earnings per share growth that puts the development and employee engagement programmes.
Group on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings per share in 2009, following the acquisition Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety of Alfred McAlpine and sustainability 2 Underlying earnings per share increased by 19 per cent Our accident frequency rate in 2008 of 0.14 ranked with in 2008 and we continue to expect to deliver materially the best in our sector.
enhanced earnings per share in 2009.
Carillion received the 2008 Sunday Times Best Green Companies Award for large and medium-sized companies Generate cashbacked operating profit with a high environmental impact.
Underlying cash flow from operations in 2008 represented Carillion achieved a gold performance ranking in Business 120 per cent of underlying operating profit.
in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
Achieve year-end net borrowing in the region Successfully integrate Alfred McAlpine and deliver of 300 million integration cost savings that put the Group on Net borrowing at the year end was 226.7 million.
track to achieve savings at an annual run rate of 30 million by the end of 2009 Savings of 15 million were delivered in 2008 and we are on track to deliver annual integration and re-organisation cost savings at a run rate of 50 million a year by the end of 2009.
Risk Risk Managing our pension schemes to ensure that scheme Winning new work to deliver growth.
liabilities are within a range appropriate to our Mitigation capital base.
Maintaining a firm focus on cost reduction and efficiency to Mitigation remain competitive: living our values in everything we do Having already closed the Groups main defined benefit to ensure we listen to and understand the needs of our schemes to new entrants, these schemes will close to customers and offering solutions tailored to meet their needs.
future accrual and be replaced with defined contribution Risk schemes from April 2009: investment policies are reviewed Maintaining financial discipline.
regularly to ensure that employee and company contributions and scheme benefits remain appropriate.
Mitigation In addition to strict contract selectivity criteria, applying Risk strong cash management policies and processes to deliver Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people cash-backed profit.
to maintain service quality and brand leadership.
1 Continuing operations Mitigation 2 Continuing operations before intangible amortisation, The ongoing development and implementation of our leadership, impairment of other investments, curtailment gain, personal development and employee engagement programmes.
restructuring costs and non-operating items.
18 Carillion plc Our performance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group Chief Executives review continued A strong and resilient business 2008 Acquisitions Underlying operating profit by reporting segment Alfred McAlpine The acquisition of Alfred McAlpine in February 2008 was a further major step in Carillions strategic development and it continues to 2008 deliver benefits ahead of our original expectations.
The Carillion and Alfred McAlpine businesses are an excellent 4 strategic fit and combining them has created the UKs largest support services business, with enhanced positions in our chosen 1 3 market sectors.
2 Carillion is now a well balanced, more resilient and soundly financed business, with 55 per cent of our operating profit coming from support services, 14 per cent from our equity investments in Public Private Partnership projects, 17 per cent from Middle East construction services and 14 per cent from construction services excluding the Middle East.
206.5m 47% Combining the two businesses also created the opportunity to generate cost savings, which are now expected to reach an annual run rate of 50 million a year by the end of 2009, 20 million a year more than we expected at the time of acquisition.
2007 Vanbots Group 4 The acquisition of the Vanbots Group, a well established construction management services group in Canada, for 3 17 million in October 2008, was also an important strategic 1 development for our business in Canada.
The skills and strong market reputation, particularly in the health sector, of the Vanbots 2 Group have significantly enhanced our ability to provide integrated solutions, especially for Public Private Partnership PPP projects, further reinforcing our leadership in the PPP market and the health sector in particular.
Group key performance indicators in 2008 140.7m 1.
Continue to attract, develop and retain excellent 20% people by being an employer of choice.
Meeting or exceeding our customers expectations depends primarily on the quality of our people.
Therefore, the ability to attract, develop and retain excellent people by becoming an 1.
Support services 113.5m 2007: 73.9m employer of choice continues to be our top priority.
Middle East construction services 34.5m 2007: 25.4m In 2008, we made further good progress through the leadership, 4.
Construction services excluding the Middle East 28.7m 2007: 16.0m personal development and employee engagement programmes we operate across the Group to help all our people fulfil their potential and contribute to Carillions success.
Section 03 Our performance 19 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Creating a culture of trust and open communication is essential We deeply regret that in 2008 there were three fatal accidents to the success of our policies and programmes for developing involving employees of sub-contractors working on Carillion our people.
Our managers and supervisors seek to engage with project sites, one in the UK, one in the Middle East and one in the all our people through regular one-to-one meetings, individual Caribbean.
Each of these incidents was a personal tragedy and performance and development reviews and monthly team talks, our thoughts are very much with the families and friends of those supported by newsletters and our national award winning who died.
Six prosecutions of Carillion by the Health and Safety company newspaper, Spectrum.
Four of these related to accidents that occurred in the former Mowlem and Alfred Listening to what our people tell us and acting upon it is vital to McAlpine businesses between 2003 and 2007, before they good communication.
To that end and to help us monitor and were acquired by Carillion.
measure our progress, we conduct employee surveys.
For example, every year we hold The Great Debate, an interactive survey in In 2008, Carillion once again submitted information on the which our people, selected randomly from across the Group, share Health and Safety performance of all its UK business units to the their views on a wide range of issues, which are important to Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index, having been their development and satisfaction and to the success of Carillion.
the first and only major construction company to do so in 2006.
In 2008, over 2,800 people took part in The Great Debate, This Index, which is sponsored by the Health and Safety Executive, the results of which showed that we continue to make good covers all aspects of Health and Safety management and overall progress on these issues and that the levels of satisfaction performance.
A wide range of industries participate in the Index, expressed by our people compared favourably with those achieved which enables us to benchmark our performance beyond our by other top UK companies.
In 2008, we improved our Index score to 8.0 2007: 7.4, which was well above the mean score of 6.6.
Be the recognised leader in the delivery of Safety and Sustainability.
In October 2008, Carillion launched Behaving Safely, which set The Health and Safety of our people and everyone who works out the behaviours expected of everyone, including supervisors with us or is affected by our operations is paramount.
This standard is being used throughout our business to challenge and improve safety behaviours.
In 2005, we set the demanding objective of eliminating reportable accidents by 2010.
Known as Target Zero, this objective is led by In 2008, we continued to demonstrate our leadership in our Board and requires the constant vigilance and commitment sustainability by winning the 2008 Sunday Times Best Green of everyone in Carillion to ensure that safe working practices are Companies Award for large and medium-sized companies with a consistently adopted and supported by rigorous reviews, audits high environmental impact.
The award was based on a survey that and training.
tested the credentials of participating companies by examining their corporate policies and by asking employees to comment on In 2008, the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR remained at whether green policies are truly embedded in the companies for 0.14 reportable accidents per 100,000 man hours worked 2007 which they work.
A resounding 76 per cent of Carillion employees AFR: 0.14, which continues to rank with the best in our sector believed that Carillion practised what it preached.
and follows year on year reductions in our AFR of 22 per cent in 2007, 25 per cent in 2006 and 35 per cent in 2005.
We also achieved a gold performance ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index, published While it is disappointing that we have not achieved a further in 2008, achieving a score of 92.5 per cent and topping the reduction in 2008, we have maintained our AFR at this level Construction and Building Materials Sector.
Alfred McAlpine also during a period of considerable change and re-organisation, achieved a gold performance ranking with a score of 90.5 per resulting from acquiring and integrating the Alfred McAlpine cent, which topped the Support Service Sector.
The Corporate business, during which time 79 per cent of our projects achieved Responsibility Index involves a detailed assessment of strategy, zero reportable accidents.
The average score of all participating companies was 82.6 per cent, which demonstrates The total number of hours worked in 2008 increased by that we not only continue to be the leader in our sector, but also 33 per cent to 281 million, with the total number of reportable that our performance compares favourably with that of all accidents under RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and participating companies.
Carillion also continues to be a member Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 increasing by 30 per of the FTSE4Good Index and we were delighted to be ranked cent to 384 2007: 295. among the top 22 most ethical companies in the FTSE350 in 2008 by the Observer newspapers Good Company Guide.
20 Carillion plc Our performance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group Chief Executives review continued Group key performance indicators in 2008 continued 7.
Achieve year-end net borrowing in the region 3.
Deliver revenue growth of a minimum of five per cent.
1 Total revenue in 2008 increased by 32 per cent, due primarily Net borrowing at 31 December 2008 was 226.7 million to the acquisition of Alfred McAlpine.
2007: 44.9 million, considerably better than our target of 300 million.
Net borrowing at 31 December 2008 was higher 4.
Successfully integrate Alfred McAlpine and deliver than at 31 December 2007 due to the acquisition of Alfred integration cost savings that put us on track to achieve McAlpine, which was financed by a combination of borrowing savings at an annual run rate of 30 million per annum and new Carillion shares.
Reducing net borrowing to well below by the end of 2009. our 300 million year end target reflects our success in delivering The integration of Alfred McAlpine has gone very well and by strong cash flow from operations, in line with our continuing the year end was substantially complete, with the benefits of this focus on cash management.
acquisition well ahead of our original expectations.
Integration and re-organisation cost savings are now expected to reach a run Group key performance indicators in 2009 rate of 50 million per annum by the end of 2009, 20 million In order to continue the Groups strong progress and deliver more than we expected at the time of acquisition.
The one-off materially enhanced earnings in 2009, the Board has set six cost of delivering these savings is anticipated to be 55 million, Group key performance indicators for 2009, namely an increase of 25 million on the 30 million we expected to incur to deliver savings at a run rate of 30 million per annum.
to attract, develop and retain excellent people by being an employer of choice 5.
Achieve earnings per share growth that puts us be the recognised leader in the delivery of safety on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings per and sustainability in the sectors in which we operate share in 2009, following the Alfred McAlpine acquisition.
2 Underlying earnings per share increased by 19 per cent to deliver integration and re-organisation cost savings 34.3 pence per share 2007: 28.9 pence.
This reflected the arising from the acquisition of Alfred McAlpine of Groups overall strong performance and better than expected 35 million in 2009 and achieve cost savings at an benefits from the Alfred McAlpine acquisition, including a annual run rate of 50 million per annum by the continuing improvement in the Groups operating margin to end of 2009 3.2 per cent 2007: 2.6 per cent.
generate cash-backed operating profit The delivery of cash-backed profit continues to be an absolute continue to reduce year-end net borrowing.
priority within all our businesses.
Our rigorous focus on cash management once again resulted in strong underlying cash flow from operations of 198.3 million 2007: 135.7 million, which represented 120 per cent of underlying profit from operations of 165.2 million 2007: 101.2 million.
1 Continuing operations 2 Continuing operations before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, curtailment gain, restructuring costs and non-operating items.
Section 03 Our performance 21 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Order book Outlook and prospects An increasingly difficult economic environment background will undoubtedly make the delivery of our business objectives 4 more challenging.
3 1 However, the acquisition and successful integration of the Alfred 2 McAlpine business has created a well-balanced and more resilient business, with a 20.4 billion order book, a pipeline of probable new orders of some 3.1 billion and strong positions in our chosen market sectors.
The outlook in support services remains positive as we continue to have our strongest ever pipeline of opportunities for new work, 20.4bn as public and private sector customers seek to reduce estate 2007: 16.0bn maintenance and facilities management costs through outsourcing these services.
We therefore expect support services to remain a major driver of earnings growth in 2009.
Public Private Partnership projects 5.3bn 2007: 5.1bn In Public Private Partnership PPP projects we expect 3.
Middle East construction services 0.8bn 2007: 0.7bn the outlook in our chosen market sectors to remain positive, 4.
Construction services excluding the Middle East 3.5bn 2007: 1.8bn particularly the UK education sector and the health sector in Canada.
We continue to expect opportunities to add new projects Probable orders to our portfolio of PPP equity investments and to continue our policy of selling equity investments in mature projects, which generates significant value for the Group.
1 2 The outlook in our Middle East markets changed significantly in 4 the second half of 2008.
The huge level of investment we have seen over the past few years in Dubai is now slowing down 3 and we expect to see a reduction in our activities there in 2009.
However, overall we expect further growth in Middle East construction services, driven increasingly by the expansion of our activities in Abu Dhabi.
Having broadened our geographical and customer base, we still expect to increase Carillions share of revenue from our Middle East businesses from the 2007 level 3.1bn of 337 million to around 600 million by the end of 2009, at 1 2007: 3.6bn an operating margin of some six per cent.
In construction services excluding the Middle East we will 1.
Support services 0.6bn 2007: 0.6bn continue to focus on growing margins rather than revenue, 2.
Public Private Partnership projects 0.1bn 2007: 0.2bn a strategy we put in place well before the current economic 3.
Middle East construction services 0.9bn 2007: 1.0bn downturn.
This supports our objective of increasing the operating 4.
Construction services excluding the Middle East 1.5bn 2007: 0.9bn margin for all of our construction activities towards three per cent by 2010.
In Canada and the Caribbean, we expect to make further progress in 2009, driven primarily by growth in PPP construction and highways maintenance in Canada.
Given the overall outlook across each of our reporting segments, I believe that Carillion is well placed to make good progress in 2009, despite increasingly challenging market conditions.
I therefore continue to expect Carillion to deliver materially enhanced earnings in 2009, in line with the objective set when we acquired Alfred McAlpine in February 2008, and to continue to reduce year-end net borrowing.
John McDonough Group Chief Executive 4 March 2009 1 Includes 0.9bn of probable orders acquired with Alfred McAlpine
