214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 6 Chief Executives Statement In more normal times I would probably have started my statement with I am pleased to report growth in business and profits.
But these are not normal times.
The worlds banking systems were almost brought to their knees as a result of the credit crisis, with governments across the globe forced to support their banks with unprecedented levels of funding and guarantees.
The credit crisis rapidly spread from banks to other sectors as the world economy moved into recession.
As the year unfolded, we reassessed the businesss priorities, worked even harder on keeping our expenses under control and invested more time and effort into existing client relationships whilst keeping our Partners, clients and employees up to date with the rapidly changing markets.
Consequently, as set out in the Chairmans statement, we have been able to report strong operating profits on both an EEV and IFRS basis and, given the circumstances, I believe these results once again demonstrate the robustness of the business and its resilience in bad times as well as good.
New Business The proportion of business represented by our own New business in 2008 was down just 2% from 2007s manufactured products continued to exceed our stated record performance up 23% on 2006 having been internal target of 80% and represented 85% of the total.
marginally ahead for the first nine months of the year.
New single premium investments exceeded 3 billion, We were particularly pleased to retain 95% of clients with new single pension investments growing by 8%.
Retention of funds under management is not only a good measure from a profitability point of view but is also a good indicator of the strength of relationships the Company has with its clients.
6 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 7 Chief Executives Statement continued The St. Jamess Place Partnership Looking at the 5 year record despite the challenges of We continue to attract high quality advisers who are 2008 - two thirds of our funds under management are in seeking a strong, well capitalised home with a brand which the top quartile.
In every rolling 5 year period since is recognised for reliable and trusted advice.
Equally 2000, 60% or more of our funds are in the top quartile important is the continued strong retention of Partners with more than 80% of funds beating their peer group and once again we have retained 95% of those who were average in most years.
with us at the start of the year.
These two factors led to an increase of 7% of the size of the Partnership in 2008 to During the year, we broadened our fund range to include 1,340, our third consecutive year of good growth.
an Alternative Asset Fund, a Cash Unit Trust and a High Octane Fund managed by Barclays Global Investors, State Shareholders will recall our Academy initiative where Street Global Advisers and Oldfield Partners Thornburg we aim to grow our own advisers to supplement our Investment Managers respectively.
Our fund range now recruitment activity.
The progress of the Academy in its consists of 38 funds managed by 19 fund managers offering first full year was very encouraging with the first eight a wide diversification across a number of asset classes.
new members joining the Partnership from the Academy during the year.
We anticipate further new members of Our Clients the Partnership joining from the Academy in future years.
We have always considered the fair treatment of all members of our community to be central to our culture.
The marketplace for good advisers continues to be very This is particularly true of our dealings with clients.
active at the present time and we are confident we can continue to attract the appropriate number and quality in We strive to build long term relationships with clients line with our objectives.
through the St. Jamess Place Partnership, providing them with ongoing face to face advice that they can trust.
Investment Management 2008 has been one of, if not the, most challenging year The reason is simple, clients stay with and do more we have ever experienced for investment management.
business with people they trust.
They also refer others to Virtually every asset class was down in value and world them, and thats exactly what drives our business.
This is stock markets fell 30 - 40% year on year.
During this why, when as a result of the market conditions AIG period our funds under management were down just chose to defer redemptions from its Premier Access 10%, ending the year at 16.3 billion.
Bond, we took steps to support St. Jamess Place clients caught up in this unfortunate development.
The With this backdrop it is therefore not surprising that most goodwill payment announced is exactly that, a gesture of of our funds fell as well.
However, in comparative terms, good will to support our clients, and I believe was in 2008, 53% of our funds under management achieved appreciated by them.
top quartile performance with nearly three quarters of our funds in the top half of their peer groups.
7 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 8 Chief Executives Statement continued External Recognition and will benefit children with severe brain disorders.
In March 2008 we were delighted to be informed We have also continued our significant support for St. Jamess Place had been named Best Wealth Teenage Cancer Trust and Hope and Homes.
Manager in the inaugural Investors Chronicle FT Wealth Management Awards as voted for by readers of I would like to thank all members of St. Jamess Place Investors Chronicle and the Financial Times.
This was and those suppliers who have generously supported the followed in November 2008 by being named the winner Foundation by way of sponsorship, time and donations.
of The Daily Telegraph Wealth Manager of the Year award for the second consecutive year.
These Outlook awards are a particularly strong endorsement of the We know that 2009 will be another challenging year but advice and service provided by the Partnership.
believe that the need for face to face advice is as strong as ever and our business is very well placed in that market.
At the end of last year the highly respected magazine Management Today showed St. Jamess Place as We have not lost any of our enthusiasm for our medium Britains Most Admired Life Assurance and to long term growth targets.
Strong retention of funds Insurance Company.
This was based on the views of under management, three consecutive years of growth in our peers, our competitors and market analysts.
Partner numbers and a good environment for further recruitment of quality advisers give us good reasons to be It is very pleasing to receive the external recognition for optimistic for when the markets recover.
what we do and is a credit to the hard work, commitment and dedication of our entire community.
In the meantime, we will continue to demonstrate just how resilient this business is.
Foundation and Community The St. Jamess Place Foundation continues to play an important role within the lives of Partners and employees: it is an integral part of our culture and fundamental to the ethos of the Company.
David Bellamy 2008 was another exceptional year for the Foundation 23 February 2009 and our fund raising initiatives again surpassed everything that has gone before, raising over 2.4 million.
Those fund raising efforts enabled the Foundation to continue to grant funds to exceptionally good causes.
In addition to the hundreds of small charities supported by the Foundation, we made our largest ever single donation in 2008 in support of a new Hydrotherapy Pool for the Childrens Trust at Tadworth.
This single donation will fund the entire development of the pool 8 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 9
