Group chief executives review Leading the way across our markets Peter Sands, Group chief executive On a visit to Delhi 8 Standard Chartered 2008 Central to our disciplined approach is our focus on the basics of banking: liquidity, capital, credit risk, operational risk and costs.
2008 was a year of extraordinary dislocation and disruption in financial markets.
Banks collapsed or were rescued by governments, markets fell precipitously and economic growth stalled.
Given our conservative business model, our clear strategy and our focus on the basics, Standard Chartered has weathered the storm relatively well.
We have not been unscathed but we have continued to be open for business for customers and once again delivered record profits.
These results demonstrate the underlying strength of our businesses and the overall resilience of the Bank.
We are in very good shape, with a strong balance sheet, an excellent customer franchise and good business momentum.
We enter 150 years in India To commemorate Standard Chartereds 150th 2009 acutely aware of the many challenges across our anniversary in the country, Indias Department of Posts launched a specially markets, but also confident and clear about our priorities.
designed postage stamp featuring our landmark Heritage Building in Mumbai.
Our approach We have been running the Bank according to four fundamental tenets: internet and mobile banking technology are powerful tools to gather local and foreign currency deposits.
Consumer Banking First, we have stuck to our strategy.
We aim to be the worlds overall contributed over $40 billion in net liabilities in 2008. best international bank, leading the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We do business in markets we understand Wholesale Banking also generates large deposits through its intimately, with customers with whom we have long-standing cash management and custody businesses.
Deposit balances relationships, selling products we understand fully.
from this business grew 24 per cent to $64 billion.
Second, we have focused on the basics of banking.
Perhaps Capital because we have always operated in volatile markets, we have We have taken a proactive approach to managing our capital never lost sight of such disciplines.
position, raising capital as and when necessary, to support the Banks business.
Diluting our shareholders interests or Third, we want to keep supporting our clients as they navigate asking them for new money is not a step we take lightly but the economic turmoil.
We want to seize the opportunities at the end of November, we decided to launch a pre-emptive arising from the turbulence.
Whilst we have taken action in rights issue.
response to the crisis we also continue to invest for growth.
As we explained at the time, we did this for three reasons: Finally, we have stayed true to our values and culture which are to respond to the change in investor sentiment about required key to our competitive advantage.
Standard Chartered is a rather different bank and we want to keep it like that.
We run as one levels of capital at banks: to give us a buffer in a deteriorating bank across geographies and businesses.
economic and financial environment, especially for banks: and to give us greater room to take advantage of the potential opportunities.
Basics of banking We are very appreciative of the high level of support we received Central to our disciplined approach is our focus on the from our shareholders for the rights issue at 97 per cent and, basics of banking: liquidity, capital, credit risk, operational given the events since then, it was clearly the right decision.
We enter 2009 very well capitalised.
Liquidity Credit risk We have always taken a conservative approach to our liquidity Our asset quality is conservative, diverse, tightly secured by keeping our deposit levels well above our loans, maintaining by collateral and mainly of short duration.
We continued our ability to repay the former.
Managing liquidity is always to tighten underwriting standards in 2008 and to reduce crucial in banking, but in 2008 it became the difference unsecured exposures.
We have taken some tough decisions, between survival and success.
for example, stopping business with certain clients and reducing unsecured lending to small and medium enterprises.
As the markets have continued to deteriorate since 2007, we have increased our liquidity by gathering more customer In Consumer Banking, we have been rebalancing the mix from deposits, benefiting from customers flight-to-quality, and unsecured to secured lending.
Almost 60 per cent of the portfolio keeping our overall lending shorter in tenor.
is in mortgages, with a ratio of average loan to value of the portfolio of about 50 per cent.
In Wholesale Banking pricing Consumer Bankings transaction capabilities, innovative has improved markedly to mirror heightened risks.
products, extensive network of branches and ATMs, and www.
com 9 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Group overview Group chief executives review continued Striking the right balance The new global advertising campaign Multiplying leadership capability In 2008, 4,000 employees across illustrates the Banks balanced approach to business and embodies our our markets took part in our Great Managers programme, strengthening values and commitment to stakeholders.
The advertisements demonstrate leadership capability across the Group.
the balance we strike in everything we do, between profit and sustainability, global and local, traditional and modern.
Operational risk Finally, it is important to look beyond the immediate crisis.
While During a financial crisis, every operational weakness, such as the near-term economic conditions have deteriorated sharply, our markets remain fundamentally attractive.
With young, system or process failures, documentation errors, fraud, and increasingly well-educated populations, a growing middle class, compliance issues, gets exposed.
We have been very active in rapid urbanisation and continuing industrialisation, our markets identifying potential loose rivets and tightening up every aspect in Asia, Africa and the Middle East still offer enormous potential.
In fact, the crisis will almost certainly accelerate the shift in We are not seeking to avoid risk: banking is a risk-taking business.
economic power from West to East.
We are in the right But we need to ensure we are consistently taking the right markets and we will stay focused on them.
risks, that we understand them fully and that we are managing them as effectively as we can.
Strategic priorities for 2009 Costs Given the uncertainties, we need to be flexible and adaptive, Reflecting our dynamic approach, both businesses reduced anticipating and responding to the extraordinary changes around costs in the second half of 2008.
Yet we are determined to us.
However, some things will not change.
We have a clear and continue to invest in growing our businesses so that we can consistent strategy which is well understood by customers, by really turn this turmoil to our advantage.
To be able to do this, staff, by regulators, by policymakers and by investors.
we have to be extremely disciplined.
We cannot dodge the tough decisions on investment priorities, on underperforming We will keep the focus on the basics of banking.
We will businesses and on people.
In fact, we see many opportunities to deepen our relationships with clients, increase market share This disciplined approach to the basics of banking is essential and improve margins.
Many of our competitors are distracted given the continued uncertainties in the economic environment.
by problems or are withdrawing to focus on their home markets.
We have a strong brand that is well known across our franchise.
Economic backdrop We will leverage our brand more: we want it to be embedded in everything that we do and to inform every interaction with Looking at the world economy, the crisis continues to unfold all our stakeholders.
at an extraordinary pace and in unpredictable ways.
Yet some things are clear.
Many economies across Asia, Africa and the Our two businesses start the year with very different priorities.
Middle East are experiencing a sharp cyclical slowdown.
But In Wholesale Banking, we aim to sustain the momentum after they do not face the structural credit fide-leveraging afflicting a strong performance in 2008.
In Consumer Banking, we are Western markets.
As a result, the downturn in our markets aiming to reshape the business to regain income and profit growth.
While we have two businesses, Wholesale Banking and Furthermore, while Asian banks are feeling the stress, as dollar Consumer Banking, it is important to recognise that we run liquidity dries up and the credit environment deteriorates, they Standard Chartered as one bank.
The businesses depend on are in much better shape than many of their counterparts in the each other for balance sheet, products, client referrals and shared infrastructure.
The ingredients of the banking crisis in the UK and the US, the over-leverage, over-complexity and opacity, are not Our emphasis on balance, between the two businesses, present to nearly the same extent.
between the short term and the longer term, between profits and balance sheet, is perhaps why we have produced another Asian governments have responded quickly to stimulate their set of strong results and why we are still around after 150 years.
economies and ease liquidity pressures.
These actions will take time to have an impact and some measures will undoubtedly be more effective than others, but the sheer scale of the policy Lessons for the future response is impressive.
Banks with unsustainable business models have collapsed While Middle East growth is slowing, the region has a sizeable or been rescued by governments.
The sudden reversal of current account surplus and significant savings and it is expected unsustainable levels of leverage across many financial to cope with lower oil prices.
Africa too, will be affected by the markets has caused immense damage to the real economy.
global downturn, with reduced access to capital sources, but Not surprisingly, public trust and confidence in banks and growth rates will remain generally steady and positive.
political support for the industry has declined sharply.
10 Standard Chartered 2008 Nets for Life We fulfiled our pledge to distribute one million life-saving Millennium Development Goals Using our core business to mosquito nets across 16 African countries in the fight against malaria.
We have promote economic development, we are piloting a programme in Pakistan in renewed our commitment with a new pledge to help raise $50 million for the partnership with the International Finance Corporation to provide SMEs with distribution of five million nets in 18 African countries over the next five years.
support to help them fulfil their growth potential.
We need to acknowledge what has gone wrong and to articulate Summary the essential role banks play in the economy.
For the economy, The world of banking will change enormously.
The competitive banking is like oxygen: taken for granted when it is there: a landscape will be fundamentally different.
The regulatory disaster when it fails.
Banks play a number of critical roles, frameworks and the role of governments in banking will be including enabling payments, securing savings and providing radically altered.
Our challenge is to ensure we continue to credit.
By borrowing for the short term and lending long term, deliver for our investors, our customers and our other the banking system enables the rest of the economy to do the stakeholders as we navigate these changes.
opposite, which empowers consumers and fuels companies.
Now, more than ever, society needs well-governed banks Many banks appear to have lost sight of the risk-return trade-off, which support their customers with their daily banking needs both for themselves and for society as a whole.
We need to of saving and the provision of credit, and institutions which are demonstrate that the way Standard Chartered works is responsibly aware of the role that they play in our communities.
sustainable and creates value for customers, investors While I am proud of the progress in our sustainability agenda in and society as a whole.
2008, I recognise there is much more to do.
At the same time, the system of regulation needs to be able I would like to thank the staff of Standard Chartered for the to anticipate and catch the failures before they become commitment, teamwork and professionalism they showed in catastrophic.
Every market is interconnected and responses 2008 and for their continued dedication in 2009, which will to the crisis need to be co-ordinated.
undoubtedly be another very challenging year.
Outlook Whilst the world is uncertain, we are in good shape, managing tightly and not complacent.
Peter Sands 2009 has started well.
Wholesale Banking has had a very strong Group chief executive January, with income broad-based and well above the levels 3 March 2009 seen in the same month last year.
Trade Finance had a record month and trading benefited from wider margins.
Wholesale Banking continues to benefit from increasing market share.
Consumer Banking has had a steady start to the year with income running slightly, but not materially, below the average run rate of the second half of 2008.
The outlook for Consumer Banking depends in part on the timing of the recovery in Wealth Management and general levels of consumer confidence.
We will continue to gather deposits and focus on liquidity strength, and we will maintain a strong capital position.
We have taken a proactive approach to risk and positioned our loan books defensively into the economic downturn.
We are keeping a very firm grip on costs.
Disciplined execution of our strategy, our diverse income streams and deep client relationships and effective management of capital, liquidity and risk remain key to success in 2009. www.
com 11 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Group overview
