Chief A year in the Executives Review energy industry Centrica once again delivered a good financial performance in a year which provided a severe test for the business.
It has been a year of extraordinary turbulence in the Gas commodity markets.
During the first half of the year we The UK is increasingly reliant on imports.
Some 35% of UK gas experienced volatile and rapidly rising global oil and gas was imported in 2008, and it is estimated that 70% will be imported prices driven primarily by growing demand in Asia.
Demand for gas remains at high levels globally, despite second half the sharp contraction of credit markets caused the economic recession and the UK has to compete in the global a collapse of worldwide oil demand and the oil price.
So Centrica is investing in new gas assets in the By the end of the year this started to feed through into British and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
a softening of the wholesale gas price.
Although Centrica We are also investing in contracts and UK infrastructure to enable has navigated well through this market upheaval our us to import increasing amounts of liquefied natural gas LNG.
profitability has been impacted with the upstream In January 2009, we received the largest shipment of LNG ever benefiting at the expense of downstream margins.
But LNG is also a global product and the Only five years ago the energy environment in which we operate UK and Europe are competing with Asia and North America for was very different to the one that we are in today.
gas markets were reasonably stable, security of supply was a Going forward, as additional LNG production comes on-stream distant concern with the UK self-sufficient in gas and exporting and an increasing number of players enter the market, we will be its excess to the continent and new nuclear power was not pursuing a range of sourcing strategies.
Price volatility and supply constraints can be eased through storing A great deal has changed.
gas bought during periods of low demand.
The UK has relatively Even though energy prices have softened as a result of the limited storage we have around 16 days of gas storage compared recession, the long-term trend remains upwards driven by to about 77 in Germany and 88 in France and so this is another the industrialisation of Asia, the increased costs of oil and gas area in which Centrica is investing.
extraction, political uncertainties surrounding sources of supply Power and the need to decarbonise our economies to meet the challenge The European Union and national governments are imposing of climate change.
In the UK, domestic oil and gas production strict limits on CO2 emissions and stretching targets for the use continues to decline and our import dependency is growing of renewable energy.
The European Renewables Directive, for sharply.
The power generation fleet is ageing and needs replacing example, will bind the UK to a 15% renewables target by 2020. with low-carbon technologies.
In the US the new Obama The UK Government has suggested that this is likely to mean up administration has placed a high priority on meeting the challenge to 3035% of electricity could come from renewable sources of climate change which, as in Europe, will place an additional but compared with less than 5% today.
According to the Government, necessary cost on the consumer.
this will require around 100 billion of investment.
Taken together the triple challenges of ensuring security of supply, However, renewables alone will not be able to fill the mediumminimising climate change and providing affordable energy pose term supply gap.
The alternatives are gas, coal or nuclear profound questions for the whole of the energy industry.
no easy or cheap answers, although energy efficiency has a vital role to play.
What is clear is that unprecedented levels of We are close to completing the first gas-fired power station to be investment will be required over the next two decades to meet built in the UK for almost five years, at a cost of 400 million and these challenges.
expect this to begin commercial operation later in 2009.
We also 08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 UK gas supply demand 19982018 Energy hedge ratio % 40 120 35 100 30 80 25 Import requirement 60 20 15 40 UKCS gas 10 production 20 5 0 0 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Gas demand Acquisitions Morecambe North Sea Wind Drax 20062008 Source: Office of National Statistics, DECC, National Grid firmly believe that a vital longer-term contributor to energy security The progress weve made in a low-carbon world is new nuclear capacity.
Much of the existing During 2008 our customer service improved significantly.
Average nuclear generation fleet will be retired over the next 15 years, and time to answer and to handle calls reduced further and our the replacement process has a very long lead time so decisions proportion of industry complaint levels fell by nearly a third over need to be made today.
Our Rights Issue in December has the year.
Compared to 2007 we also increased the percentage provided the resources to enable us to be actively involved of customer enquiries which were resolved on the first call and in this market.
substantially reduced the transactional exceptions associated with the new billing system.
These service improvements enabled further Centricas strategy needs to be able to address the complex issues progress to be made on our cost reduction initiatives.
Our operating that the industry faces, and to do so in ways that can deliver cost base in 2008 was over 200 million lower than in 2006. sustainable value for our shareholders.
This requires us to manage all of the risks and opportunities we are facing with a clear vision In October Ofgem published the initial findings of its probe into and an understanding of where our corporate responsibilities lie.
the energy supply industry in Britain.
The report concluded that Our strategy must be able to respond appropriately to the needs of effective competition exists between the major suppliers.
However, our vulnerable customers, to ensure the health and safety of our it did make recommendations to reduce certain retail price customers and employees, as well as meeting the challenges of differentials, particularly relating to former incumbent electricity security of supply and climate change.
suppliers who charge different prices for in-area and out-of-area customers.
It also suggested a reduction in tariffs for those I believe that it can, and that in seeking to create an integrated customers with a prepayment meter, to more accurately reflect the energy company, operating upstream by developing new sources additional cost involved in supplying those customers.
British Gas of gas and power, and downstream with strong brands and complied with this recommendation in a matter of a few weeks.
innovative propositions, we have a robust approach to meeting the challenges ahead.
Whats next We have created a strong foundation here over the last two years We have continued to operate the business in line with the strategic and now is the time to take British Gas to the next stage of its priorities we set at the end of 2006, and report on those over the evolution.
Building on our already strong brand in the UK we are next pages.
In short the increasing extent of vertical integration in seeking to deepen the customer relationship by combining the Centrica, the emphasis on operational excellence, the reduction of energy and services propositions.
This will offset the gradual decline our cost base and the improvement in our customer service meant over time in the use of gas by consumers in the UK as we move to that we ended 2008 with a stronger business and momentum for a lower carbon economy, and take full advantage of the increasing the future.
demand for energy efficient products and services.
To best achieve this we will combine British Gas Residential, British Gas Business PRIORITy 1 TRANSFORM BRITISh GAS and British Gas Services into a single customer-focused organisation.
This will enable us to launch new bundled products British Gas Residential is the core of our business, and under the British Gas brand, products that customers want, to it needs to deliver consistently high levels of service and increase customer loyalty, to further reduce costs and to target even profitability if we are to succeed.
more efficiently the substantial support we already provide for our The transformation, therefore, aims to: vulnerable customers.
Phil Bentley, the current Managing Director of improve our price competitiveness, service levels and British Gas Energy, will run this new organisation.
Chris Weston, product offer current Managing Director of British Gas Services, will take over reduce our costs through best-in-class productivity leadership of the Direct Energy business from Deryk King in July while remaining a great place to work 2009. achieve long-term margins of 67% 09 Chief Our strategic Executives Review priorities continued Transform Sharpen the Reduce risk Build on our British Gas organisation and through integration growth platforms reduce costs New billing system First major UK power Strong customer growth complete station for almost five years in BGB N ew senior management structure S ervice levels Completed worlds Increase in sale of BGS dramatically improved largest offshore wind farm secondary products L ike-for-like Group development operating costs reduced Removed over 200m Upstream and downstream by 40 million of costs since 2006 Acquired more gas assets acquisitions in North and received first LNG America B ecoming increasingly P opular fixed-price and shipment efficient online propositions Announced two major new Essentials tariff for storage projects in 2008 vulnerable customers In March we increased our equity stake in the assets originally PRIORITy 2 ShARPEN ThE ORGANISATION acquired from Newfield in 2007 and in October we completed our AND REDUCE COSTS acquisition of assets in the Heimdal area of the North Sea.
At the We operate in a highly competitive market for customers end of the year we announced an agreement to acquire an at national level and for global sources of energy.
additional interest in the Peik gas field in the UK and in January 2009 we agreed to take additional equity in the York gas field.
These In order to compete in the long term, our organisation has deals provided us with both producing gas assets and valuable to be as lean and efficient as possible, with the people and exploration and development prospects.
structures that enable us to make the best use of the skills and resources we have.
During the year Centrica Storage announced two important potential gas storage projects.
In March we began engineering The progress weve made studies to explore the potential to convert the Bains gas field in the In July Mark Hanafin joined Centrica as Managing Director Centrica Morecambe Bay area into a storage field with a capacity of up to Energy and Europe.
This further strengthened the executive team.
In September we acquired the Caythorpe Various initiatives in the year across the Group meant that we finished onshore gas field and began the process of converting it into 2008 as a leaner organisation without affecting our ability to grow.
a storage field capable of holding up to 7.5bcf of stored gas.
This helped to reduce our Group like-for-like operating costs by In February 2009 we announced our intention to create an 40 million, despite the inflationary pressures, particularly in the additional 60bcf gas storage field in the UK North Sea following offshore services environment.
the acquisition of a 70% share in the Baird gas field.
Whats next In power generation we completed the Lynn and Inner Dowsing We have a strong leadership team in place and improved capital wind farm development off the Lincolnshire coast, the largest allocation, risk management and cost control processes, which will operational offshore wind farm development in the world.
In Devon, enable us to drive superior financial and operational performance.
the construction of the Langage gas-fired power station continued, Going forward, we consider operating cost advantage to be a key although the contractor has experienced some delays and we now competitive differentiator for Centrica and we will be relentless in expect the station to become operational towards the end of 2009. the pursuit of further cost reductions, while enabling growth across the business.
In September we announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with EDF to acquire a 25% share in the British PRIORITy 3 REDUCE RISK ThROUGh Energy business.
This would add significantly to our upstream INTEGRATION position and provide us with a long-term hedge against volatile We need to produce more of the energy that we sell.
In the wholesale power prices, with access to power where the price UK, we are only able to supply 29% of our gas requirements is not impacted by the cost of oil and gas, and an opportunity from our own gas fields and 58% of our peak electricity to grow through new build nuclear construction in the UK.
demand from our own generation facilities.
The remainder The proceeds from the successful 2.16 billion Rights Issue has to be bought in highly volatile world markets.
towards the end of the year provide us with the capital required to The progress weve made complete the British Energy transaction and make further material During the year, we made good progress.
We acquired additional progress in increasing the upstream asset base and reducing risk.
gas assets in the British and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Far left: In January 2009, we received the largest shipment of LNG ever delivered to the UK.
Middle: Centricas UK headquarters in Berkshire.
Left: Our Direct Energy business in North America.
British Gas Residential Growth business EBIT m earnings before interest and taxes operating expenditure m Generation mix % 1,000 100 600 500 80 400 60 750 300 40 200 20 100 500 0 0 Centrica UK mix 06 07 08 06 07 08 mix Gas Coal Oil Wind Nuclear Other BGS BGB fide exchange rate movements.
Our acquisition in June of Strategic Whats next Energy doubled the size of our commercial and industrial C&I We will continue to expand our power generation fleet as part of the energy supply business and made us the third largest commercial overall upstream hedge to reduce the exposure to the increasing supplier of energy in North America.
In Europe, in January 2009 we volatility in power prices and spreads.
Here we will seek to cover an completed the acquisition of an additional 25.5% of SPE, giving us a increasing amount of our UK electricity demand load and to grow and valuable controlling stake of 51%.
Unfortunately Oxxio, our business better align our generation mix with that of our competitors and the in The Netherlands, recorded a disappointing loss.
We have taken wider market.
As part of this, our discussions with EDF, regarding us action to stem losses here, including replacing management.
potentially acquiring 25% of British Energy are continuing.
We will also pursue external financing to allow us to develop and build on our wind Whats next farm portfolio, and additional options to grow the size of our The reorganisation in British Gas provides us with an opportunity conventional gas-fired fleet of power stations.
to increase the overall value of our customer base by expanding the overlap between our energy and services businesses through In gas we are continuing to push ahead on reducing our exposure to bundled offerings under a single brand.
In North America we will the short-term volatility in wholesale gas prices by acquiring additional also integrate further by building on the platform we have already gas assets and striking gas contracts.
In pursuing this we will focus established and tightening the focus on key geographies.
In doing most of our asset acquisition activity on the UK and Norwegian this we will establish a centralised service platform which enables sectors of the North Sea while also continuing to evaluate LNG opportunities.
Building closer relationships with National Oil us to compete more efficiently.
With better focus will come a Companies, to secure competitive long-term sources of gas for greater degree of integration, primarily through the selective our customers, remains firmly on the agenda.
acquisition and construction of gas and power assets, to provide growth opportunities and support for the retail businesses.
PRIORITy 4 BUIlD ON OUR GROWTh In summary PlATFORMS Following a record 2007, the financial performance in 2008 was Centricas growth businesses in the UK, Europe and good despite a much harsher environment.
We made strong North America have great potential for increasing the progress against the strategic priorities we set out at the end of Groups profitability.
The outlook for the global economy remains very challenging and in the UK 2009 could be particularly difficult for many of We are focusing on new opportunities, such as providing our customers, both residential and commercial.
We will continue low-carbon products and services, and increasingly on to place our customers needs at the forefront of our agenda, integration in the North American business.
This will see us alongside our determination to deliver increasing long-term value concentrate on the geographies and service areas in which for our shareholders.
we are already strong, and support the retail businesses through the construction and acquisition of new power assets.
The progress weve made The financial results in the year show real progress with this priority.
In British Gas Business and British Gas Services we grew revenue, operating profit and customer numbers, while delivering ongoing Sam Laidlaw cost efficiencies.
In North America we faced a difficult economic Chief Executive environment.
However here too we increased customer numbers 26 February 2009 and delivered a strong financial result, partially due to favourable including joint ventures and associates, stated net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 11
