86 cHieF eXecUtiVe oFFicer, DeLeGAtioN oF AUtHoritY AND seNior eXecUtiVe teAM seNior eXecUtiVe teAM dAvId BRENNAN SImoN loWTh JohN pATTERSoN Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Executive Director, Development ToNY ZooK dAvId SmITh lYNN TETRAulT Chief Executive Officer, North America, Executive Vice-President, Operations Executive Vice-President, Human President, MedImmune and Executive Resources and Corporate Affairs Vice-President, Global Marketing BRuNo ANGElICI JAN luNdBERG Executive Vice-President, International Executive Vice-President, Discovery Sales and Marketing Organisation Research NEW AppoINTmENTS EFFECTIvE FRom 1 JANuARY 2009 ANdERS EKBlom JEFFREY poTT Executive Vice-President, Development General Counsel ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 Directors report 87 ChIEF ExECuTIvE oFFICER ANd dElEGATIoN In July 2008, David Mott resigned from his Directors reviewed the performance of the oF AuThoRITY position as President and Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Officer of MedImmune to pursue his Directors in their absence.
In addition, The Chief Executive Officer has been career outside AstraZeneca.
Tony Zook was the Board, under the chairmanship of the delegated authority from, and is responsible to, appointed President of MedImmune with Senior Independent Director, reviewed the the Board of AstraZeneca PLC for directing effect from 13 November 2008, having held performance of the Chairman in his absence.
and promoting the profitable operation and the position of interim head of MedImmune development of the Company, consistent since David Motts resignation.
Tony Zook The Board maintains and regularly reviews with the primary aim of enhancing long-term retains his other responsibilities as Chief a full list of matters and decisions that are shareholder value, in relation to all matters Executive Officer, North America and Executive reserved to, and can only be approved by, save those which have been specifically Vice-President, Global Marketing.
These include the appointment, reserved for the Board.
termination and remuneration of any Director: opERATIoN oF ThE BoARd oF dIRECToRS the annual budget: any item of fixed capital The Chief Executive Officer is responsible expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition to the Board for the management and The Board is responsible for the Companys or disposal of an investment or business performance of the Companys business corporate governance, sets the Companys which exceeds $150 million: raising of capital within the framework of Company policies, strategy and policies and also monitors or loans by the Company subject to certain reserved powers and routine reporting progress towards meeting its objectives exceptions : any guarantee in respect of requirements.
He is obliged to refer certain and annual plans.
The Board discharges any borrowing of the Company: and allotting major matters defined in the formal delegation these responsibilities through a programme shares of the Company.
The matters that of the Boards authority back to the Board.
of meetings that include a formal, annual have not been expressly reserved to the The roles of the Board and the relationship strategy review.
The Board also assesses Board are either delegated to its committees between each of the Boards committees, whether or not and to what extent its or to the Chief Executive Officer.
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and obligations to the Companys shareholders and the Senior Executive Team are documented, others are understood and met.
This includes BoARd mATTERS as are the Boards delegated authorities and regular reviews of the Companys financial As part of the business of each meeting reserved powers, the means of operation of the performance and critical business issues.
of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer business and the roles of corporate functions.
typically submits a report on progress of In the view of the Board, at least half of the each key area of the business and detailing SENIoR ExECuTIvE TEAm SET Board members are, for the purposes of the progress against the goals the Board has UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance approved and their activities.
The Board also The Chief Executive Officer has established and the corporate governance standards of receives accounting and other management and chairs the SET pictured on page 86. the New York Stock Exchange, independent information for the assessment of the Although the Chief Executive Officer retains Non-Executive Directors.
Companys resources, presentations from full responsibility for the authority delegated internal and external speakers on legal, to him by the Board, the SET is the vehicle Prior to the publication of this Report, the Board governance and regulatory developments through which he has chosen to exercise conducted its annual review and assessment and external perspectives.
certain of that authority in respect of the of how it operates.
This was facilitated through Groups business.
The SET normally meets a series of web-based questionnaires as The Company Secretary is responsible to once a month to consider and decide major well as through interviews between each the Chairman for ensuring that all Board business issues.
Typically, it also reviews those of the Directors and an external facilitator.
and Board committee meetings are properly matters that are of a size or importance to These interviews included consideration conducted, that the Directors receive require the attention of, or that are reserved to, and discussion of the nature and level of its appropriate information prior to meetings to the Board before such matters are submitted interaction with the Companys management: enable them to make an effective contribution, to the Board for review and decision.
the quality, quantity and scope of information and that governance requirements are which flows to the Board from management, considered and implemented.
John Patterson, Executive Director, and the way in which it flows: the content Development stepped down from his of and presentations to Board meetings: The Board held six scheduled and two other operational position at the end of January the composition of the Board: the practical meetings in 2008.
All of the Board meetings 2009 and will retire from the Board on arrangements for the work of the Board: were held in London or by telephone.
31 March 2009. and the work and operation of the Boards committees.
Overall, it was concluded that Anders Ekblom was appointed Executive the Board and its committees were operating Vice-President, Development and Jeffrey Pott in an effective and constructive manner.
was appointed General Counsel, both with effect from 1 January 2009 when they both As part of the assessment process the became members of the SET.
external facilitator gave feedback to each Non-Executive Director about his or her individual performance.
The Non-Executive ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 88 BoARd mEETING ATTENdANCE During 2008: The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Board member Number of meetings attended number of meetings Director Jean-Philippe Courtois and Rudy Markham since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are still Name was eligible to attend in 2008 were appointed as Non-Executive in force and provide that the Company shall Bo Angelin 8 8 Directors on 18 February 2008 and indemnify the Directors to the fullest extent David Brennan 8 8 12 September 2008 respectively, in permitted by law and the Articles, in respect John Buchanan 7 8 accordance with Article 70 of the Articles.
of all losses arising out of, or in connection 1 Jean-Philippe Courtois 6 7 with, the execution of their powers, duties Jane Henney 7 8 On 4 November 2008, the Company and responsibilities, as Directors of the Michele Hooper 8 8 announced that John Patterson will retire Company or any of its subsidiaries.
This is in Simon Lowth 8 8 from the Board on 31 March 2009. line with current market practice and helps 2 Rudy Markham 3 3 the Company attract and retain high-quality Hkan Mogren 5 8 Newly appointed Directors are provided with skilled Directors.
3 John Patterson 8 8 comprehensive documentation, setting out their Nancy Rothwell 6 8 obligations and duties as Directors.
They also opERATIoN oF BoARd CommITTEES Louis Schweitzer 8 8 typically attend tailored induction programmes John Varley 6 8 that take account of their individual skills and The Board has delegated certain Marcus Wallenberg 7 8 experience.
To develop an understanding of responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, 1 the major shareholders views about the Nomination and Governance, and Science Jean-Philippe Courtois was appointed on 18 February 2008 in accordance with the Company, the Non-Executive Directors Committees.
The Board provides adequate Companys Articles of Association.
together with the rest of the Board regularly resources to enable each committee to 2 Rudy Markham was appointed on 12 September receive reports and presentations from the undertake its duties.
Each of the Audit, 2008 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Companys brokers and meet with senior Remuneration, and Nomination and 3 John Patterson will retire on 31 March 2009. managers throughout the year.
Moreover the Governance Committees is made up of Directors actively encourage shareholders to Non-Executive Directors, although Executive Given the nature of the business to be attend the AGM and ask questions.
Directors may be invited to attend meetings.
conducted, some Board meetings are Members of the Science Committee include convened at short notice, which occasionally In accordance with Article 65 of the Articles, all Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors makes it difficult for some Directors to of the Directors will retire at the AGM in April and certain senior managers.
However, this attend due to prior commitments.
The Notice of AGM will give details of Committee is purely advisory in nature.
circumstances, the meeting will proceed as those Directors presenting themselves for Further details of the role, membership and scheduled provided it is quorate.
The briefing election or re-election at the AGM.
terms of reference for each committee are papers will still be sent to the absent Directors set out below.
In addition to the standing who will typically give their comments and The Company maintained directors and committees of the Board, there may from feedback on the business to be discussed officers liability insurance cover throughout time to time be constituted ad hoc at the meeting to the Chairman, to be raised 2008.
The Directors are also able to obtain committees for specific projects or tasks.
independent legal advice at the expense of In these cases, the scope and responsibilities the Company, as necessary in their capacity of the committee is documented.
The Board is currently scheduled to meet six as Directors.
times in 2009, and will meet at such other times as may be required to conduct business.
BoARd CommITTEE mEmBERShIp Nomination The Nomination and Governance Committee Audit Remuneration and Governance Science 1 Name Committee Committee Committee Committee Independent formerly the Nomination Committee Bo Angelin x x x recommends the appointment of new David Brennan x x x x x Directors to the Board by an established John Buchanan Chair x x procedure.
Appointments are based on the 2 Jean-Philippe Courtois x x x merits of the candidates and the relevance of Jane Henney x their background and experience, measured 3 Michele Hooper x x against objective criteria, with care taken to Simon Lowth x x x x x ensure that appointees have enough time to 4 Rudy Markham x x x devote to the job.
Further details of the type Hkan Mogren x x x x of criteria used to select candidates are set John Patterson x x x x out in the Nomination and Governance Nancy Rothwell x x Chair Committee section on page 91.
5 Louis Schweitzer x Chair x N A John Varley x Chair x In accordance with the Companys Articles Marcus Wallenberg x x x x x of Association Articles, all Directors retire at 1 each Annual General Meeting AGM and may As determined by the Board for UK Combined Code purposes.
2 Appointed 18 February 2008. offer themselves for re-election by shareholders 3 Michele Hooper is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
see below for more details.
5 reviews annually the status of succession For the purposes of the UK Combined Code although determined by the Board to be independent on appointment.
to senior positions, including those at Board level, and ensures it has regular contact with, and access to, succession candidates.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 Directors report 89 AudIT CommITTEE The Companys overall framework for Corporate Finance & Insurance monitors the internal control over financial reporting and status of all services being provided by the for other internal controls and processes.
The procedures also deal with placing non-audit work out for tender, The Companys overall framework for risk where appropriate.
Authority to approve management, particularly financial risks.
work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the Chairman of the Audit The accounting policies and practices of Committee in the first instance.
agenda item at Audit Committee meetings covers the operation of the pre-approval The annual and quarterly financial procedures and regular reports are provided During the year, the Audit Committee reporting carried out by the Company.
to the full Audit Committee.
continued to review critical accounting judgements and the quarterly financial The Audit Committee is charged with promptly The Audit Committees remit is available on results.
The Audit Committee considered bringing to the attention of the Board any the Companys website, astrazeneca.
reports from senior management and significant concerns of the external auditor or reviewed reports from key assurance the Vice-President, GIA arising from their audit The Audit Committee held four scheduled and governance functions within the work, any matters that may significantly affect meetings during 2008.
All of these meetings Group as part of its role of overseeing or impair the independence of the external were held in London, UK.
All Audit Committee how risk is managed.
It explored with auditor, any significant deficiencies or material members participated in all meetings either management how they will continue to weaknesses in the design or operation of in person or by telephone, except John deliver high-quality oversight, monitoring the Companys internal control over financial Buchanan, who was absent from the meeting and evaluation of risk against the reporting or other internal controls, and any on 29 January 2008. background of some significant changes, serious issues of non-compliance.
both within the business and in the Following each Audit Committee meeting, external environment.
The Audit Committee oversees the the Chairman of the Committee or the Senior establishment, implementation and Non-Executive Director in the absence of the JohN BuChANAN maintenance of the Companys Code Chairman of the Committee reported to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Conduct and other related policies.
Board on the principal matters covered at the It establishes procedures for the receipt meeting and minutes of the meetings were The current members of the Audit Committee and handling of complaints concerning circulated to all Board members.
are John Buchanan Audit Committee accounting or audit matters.
It recommends Chairman, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper to the Board the appointment of the external Members of the Audit Committee met the Senior Non-Executive Director, auditor, subject to the approval of the individual managers or groups of managers Jean-Philippe Courtois who joined on Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
from the Company on a number of occasions 18 February 2008 and Rudy Markham who Shareholders in a general meeting authorise during 2008, which helped the Audit joined on 12 September 2008.
They are all the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Committee members gain a deeper insight Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews into areas relevant to the Audit Committees each member to be independent under the and approves the appointment and any work and provided an opportunity to discuss UK Combined Code and under the general dismissal of the Vice-President, GIA.
guidance and specific criteria of the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE corporate The Audit Committee maintains policies and During the year, in line with its normal practice, governance listing standards concerning the procedures for the pre-approval of all audit the Audit Committee also held a number composition of audit committees applicable services and permitted non-audit services of private meetings, without management to non-US companies.
In April 2008, the undertaken by the external auditor, the present, with the Companys Vice-President, Company submitted the required annual principal purpose of which is to ensure that GIA, the Global Compliance Officer and the written affirmation to the NYSE confirming the independence of the external auditor is lead partners from the Companys external its full compliance with those standards.
The policies and procedures audit firm.
The purpose of these meetings the purposes of the UK Combined Code, cover three categories of work audit services, was to facilitate free and open discussions the Board remains satisfied that at least one audit-related services and tax services.
between the Audit Committee members and member of the Audit Committee has recent The policies define the type of work that those individuals, separately from the main and relevant financial experience.
At its meeting falls within each of these categories and the sessions of the Audit Committee, which were in December 2008, the Board determined non-audit services that the external auditor is attended by the Chief Financial Officer and that Michele Hooper and Rudy Markham are prohibited from performing under the rules of the Senior Vice-President, Group Finance.
audit committee financial experts for the the US Securities and Exchange Commission purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of and other relevant UK professional and During 2008 and January 2009, the business 2002.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval considered and discussed by the Audit as secretary to this committee.
procedures permit certain audit, audit-related Committee included the matters referred and tax services to be performed by the to below: The core remit of the Audit Committee includes external auditor during the year, subject to reviewing and reporting to the Board on: fee limits agreed with the Audit Committee in The Companys financial disclosures advance.
The Chief Financial Officer supported were reviewed and various accounting Matters relating to the audit plans of by the Senior Vice-President, Group Finance: matters considered.
the external auditor and Group Internal Vice-President, Global Benefits: and Director, Audit GIA.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 90 Reports were received from the external Other reports concerning the GIA, global not include any contractual obligations under auditor concerning its audit of the Financial compliance and financial compliance and which the Directors would be prevented from Statements of the Group and from control and the global finance functions, appointing a different audit firm were they to management, GIA, Global Compliance and including the internal audit plan and consider this to be in the best interests of the the external auditor on the effectiveness of progress and plans of the Global Group.
The Audit Committee, through the Companys system of internal controls Compliance Officer.
management, continues to maintain contact and, in particular, its internal control over and dialogue with other major audit firms financial reporting.
This included review and The amount of audit and non-audit fees of who are familiar with the Companys business discussion of the results of the Companys the external auditor throughout 2008. for succession purposes as required.
This is continuous assurance and annual letter The Audit Committee was satisfied reported to the Audit Committee in order to of assurance processes described further throughout the year that the objectivity ensure a smooth transition from the current below in the UK Corporate Governance and independence of the external auditor auditor, should this be necessary.
The Audit Committee were not in any way impaired by either the also reviewed quarterly activity reports nature of the non-audit work undertaken At the same meeting, the Chief Executive of audit work carried out by GIA and by the external auditor during the year, the Officer and the Chief Financial Officer the status of follow-up actions with level of non-audit fees charged for such presented to the Audit Committee their management as well as reports from work or any other facts or circumstances.
conclusions following the evaluation of the the Global Compliance function.
Further information about the audit and effectiveness of the Companys disclosure non-audit fees for the year is disclosed in controls and procedures required by Item The Companys continuing work to comply Note 27 to the Financial Statements on 15 a of Form 20-F as at 31 December 2008. with the applicable provisions of the US page 163.
Based on their evaluation, the Chief Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In particular, Executive Officer and the Chief Financial it regularly reviewed the status of compliance A review and assessment of the Audit Officer concluded that, as at that date, the with the programme of internal controls Committees performance and it was Company maintains an effective system of over financial reporting implemented concluded that this was satisfactory.
pursuant to section 404 of the Act.
Further information about the implementation of In line with best practice, the Group will There was no change in the Companys section 404 of the Act is set out in the periodically consider how the audit internal control over financial reporting Financial Review on page 47. requirements of the Group are best served in that occurred during the period covered the context of business need and the by this Annual Report and Form 20-F A review of data about calls made by prevailing external environment and, against Information 2008 that has materially affected, employees via the AZethics telephone the background of this review, will from time or is reasonably likely to materially affect, lines and other routes regarding potential to time undertake a formal tendering the Companys internal control over breaches of the Companys Code of programme with audit firms of appropriate financial reporting.
Conduct together with the results of size and calibre.
Following discussions at a enquiries into these matters.
No material meeting in January 2009, the Audit The Audit Committee is currently scheduled issues were reported through this route Committee unanimously recommended to to meet four times in 2009 and will meet at during the year.
the Board that a resolution for the resuch other times as may be required.
appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the The Audit Committee reviewed reports from Companys external auditor be proposed to REmuNERATIoN CommITTEE the Vice-President, GIA on areas where shareholders at the AGM in April 2009.
The remit and role of the Remuneration GIAs resources could most appropriately Based on its experience of working with Committee is to consider, on behalf of the be focused and where efficiency savings external auditors, the Audit Committee Board, the remuneration including pension could be achieved in the context of the believes that the quality of the interaction with rights and compensation payments of strengthening capabilities of the Global and level of service received from KPMG Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior Compliance function and the continued Audit Plc were key factors supporting this executives.
More information is set out in the work of the Financial Controls and recommendation.
The Audit Committee was Executive Directors and Senior Executive Compliance Group.
also satisfied that, notwithstanding the length Teams Remuneration and Terms of of tenure of KPMG Audit Plc, KPMG Audit Employment section within the Directors Reports from the Group Treasury Function Plc met the independence criteria under the Remuneration Report on pages 174 to 188. and, in particular, considered the Groups relevant statutory, regulatory and accounting liquidity and cash position and the standards.
Consistent with current market The information contained in the Directors appropriateness of its cash management practice, KPMG Audit Plcs services to the Remuneration Report on pages 174 to 188 policies in the context of the current Group are provided pursuant to terms of relating to the remit and members of the economic situation.
engagement which are reviewed by the Audit Remuneration Committee during 2008, as Committee.
These terms of engagement do well as the independence of those members and the number of meetings they attended throughout the year, is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 Directors report 91 NomINATIoN ANd GovERNANCE CommITTEE The Nomination and Governance Committee To review, from time to time, together with formally met three times in 2008.
Each other external experts important bioethical member attended all of the formal meetings issues faced by the Company and to except for Hkan Mogren due to a conflicting assist in the formulation of, and to agree appointment.
The principal tasks in relation to on behalf of the Board, appropriate nomination matters in 2008 related to the policies in relation to such issues.
appointments of Jean-Philippe Courtois and Rudy Markham to the Board.
These To consider with external experts, from appointments further strengthened the Board time to time, future trends in medical in terms of significant experience of sales science and technology.
and product marketing in an organisation During the year, the Nomination and with global reach, and in-depth financial The Science Committees remit is available on Governance Committees work focused experience and expertise with international the Companys website, astrazeneca.
on identifying candidates of the calibre companies.
A leading external search and experience to further strengthen consultancy was used for the appointments The Science Committee met twice in 2008 the Board and its Committees, with the of both Non-Executive Directors to ensure to review and discuss its remit and method help of specialist external search and that the Company had access to candidates of operation, the Companys Cardiovascular selection consultancies.
This resulted with the appropriate set of skills and and Neuroscience R&D, innovation with in the Nomination and Governance competencies.
In addition to considering R&D, emerging areas of science and its Committee making recommendations these new appointments to the Board, the science policy.
Each member participated to the Board for the appointments of Nomination and Governance Committee also in both meetings.
both Jean-Philippe Courtois and Rudy reviewed the knowledge, experience and Markham as Non-Executive Directors.
balance of the Board overall and considered pRINCIpAl uK ANd its likely future requirements given the strategic uS GovERNANCE REQuIREmENTS louIS SChWEITZER and business objectives of the Company.
Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee uK CoRpoRATE GovERNANCE REQuIREmENTS The Nomination and Governance Committees The Board has prepared this Report with remit is available on the Companys website, reference to the UK Combined Code on The Nomination and Governance Committees astrazeneca.
Corporate Governance and related guidance core remit continues to be after appropriate published in June 2006 by the Financial consultation with the Chairman and the SCIENCE CommITTEE Reporting Council.
A new version of the UK Chief Executive Officer to recommend to the Science Committee members have a Combined Code was published in June 2008 Board any new appointments of Directors.
knowledge of, or an interest in, life sciences.
and applies to accounting periods beginning Any decisions relating to the appointment During 2008, its members were Nancy on or after 29 June 2008.
The Board believes of a Director are made by the entire Board.
Rothwell Science Committee Chairman, that, were these standards to be applied with Following a change to its remit during 2008, Jane Henney, Jan Lundberg, John Patterson respect to the current arrangements, it would the Nomination and Governance Committee and Bo Angelin.
They are all Non-Executive comply with the latest standards.
also advises the Board periodically on Directors, except Jan Lundberg and John significant developments in corporate Patterson.
The Global Head Discovery, Strategy The Company is applying all the main and governance and the Companys compliance and Performance, also attends all meetings supporting principles of good governance in with the UK Combined Code on Corporate and acts as secretary to this Committee.
the UK Combined Code as described below.
Consequently, the Committee The Company has complied throughout the was re-named the Nomination and The Science Committees principal tasks are: accounting period and is also continuing to Governance Committee.
comply with all of the provisions of the UK To provide assurance to the Board Combined Code.
The members of the Nomination and regarding the quality, integrity and Governance Committee during 2008 competitiveness of the Companys The Board has overall responsibility for the were Louis Schweitzer Nomination and science-based R&D activities.
The Companys system of internal controls.
Since Governance Committee Chairman, Hkan Committee aims to assure itself that the publication in September 1999 by the Mogren, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper and the approaches and targets adopted Institute of Chartered Accountants in England John Varley.
They are all Non-Executive throughout the R&D organisation are and Wales of the Turnbull Report, Internal Directors.
With the exception of Hkan competitive and an appropriate use Control: Guidance for Directors on the UK Mogren for the reasons explained on of shareholders funds, but is not Combined Code, the Directors have page 92, the Board considers them all to be expected to review individual research continued to review the effectiveness of the independent Louis Schweitzer was considered or licensing projects.
Groups system of controls, risk management independent upon his appointment as and the Groups high-level internal control Chairman to the Board: in accordance with To consider reports from or join any arrangements.
These reviews have included the UK Combined Code on Corporate meeting with any relevant external an assessment of internal controls, and in Governance, the test of independence is not advisory board when the Company particular internal, financial, operational and appropriate in relation to the Chairman after is considering entry into new areas compliance controls and risk management his appointment.
The Company Secretary of science or medicine.
and their effectiveness, supported by acts as secretary to this Committee.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 92 under the UK Combined Code.
In respect of the Executive Directors, management assurance of the maintenance of control, reports from GIA, as well as the the Board believes that they both have the Board with the Executive Directors external auditor on matters identified in the brought, and continue to bring, considerable abstaining authorised any conflict that may course of its statutory audit work.
The Board business experience and to make valuable arise in relation to any of the Executive contributions to the work of the Board.
Directors holding another directorship of is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal a company within the AstraZeneca Group.
controls and risk management policies.
Hkan Mogren was previously the Chief In respect of the Non-Executive Directors, The system is designed to manage rather Executive Officer of Astra AB and Executive no conflicts or potential conflicts were Deputy Chairman of the Company and is considered to exist that required authorisation.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide now a member of the Board of Directors The Company Secretary will be responsible reasonable not necessarily absolute of Investor AB, a company that, as at for maintaining a register of notifications assurance of effective operation and 31 December 2008, held approximately received from Directors in relation to conflicts of interest and, where appropriate, any compliance with laws and regulations.
3.6% of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
This holding represents a significant proportion authorisation given.
The Board will go through Underpinning these reviews is an annual of Investor ABs overall investment portfolio.
a similar process on at least an annual basis.
letter of assurance process by which Marcus Wallenberg was a member of the uS CoRpoRATE GovERNANCE REQuIREmENTS responsible managers confirm the adequacy Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of their systems of internal financial and of Investor AB until 1 September 2005, when AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary non-financial controls, their compliance he stepped down.
Shares are traded on the New York Stock with Group policies, relevant laws and Exchange and, accordingly, the Company is subject to the reporting and other requirements regulations including the industrys The Board also considered, in particular, regulatory requirements, and confirm they the position of Michele Hooper who joined of the US Securities and Exchange Commission have reported any control weaknesses through the board of UnitedHealth Group as a SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
the Groups continuous assurance process.
The Boards Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to include in approval to this appointment was conditional The internal control framework has been in upon Michele Hooper resigning from the their annual report on Form 20-F filed with operation for the whole of the year under review board of UnitedHealth Group in the event the SEC a report by management stating its and continues to operate up to the date of of a conflict or non-independence.
It is the responsibility for establishing internal control over financial reporting and to assess annually the approval of this Report.
The Directors Boards view that Michele Hooper is believe that the Group maintains an effective, independent and that she discharges her the effectiveness of such internal control.
embedded system of internal controls and duties in a properly independent manner, The Company has complied with those complies with the Turnbull Report guidance constructively and appropriately challenging provisions of the Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board continues to and, in the view of the Directors, no significant the Executive Directors and the Board.
failings have been identified in the system.
believe the Group has a sound corporate Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of governance framework, good processes for Further information on the ways in which we AmerisourceBergen Corporation and CIGNA the accurate and timely reporting of its financial position and results of operations manage our business risks is set out in the Corporation, both of which are customers of section titled Risk on page 74 and a list of the Group in the US.
The Board has considered and an effective and robust system of internal the principal risks and uncertainties is set these relationships and concluded that they controls.
The Company has established a out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties did not compromise her independence.
Disclosure Committee, further details of which can be found in the Disclosure Policy and section from page 76.
The position of Senior Non-Executive Director Disclosure Committee section on page 94.
During 2008, the Board considered the of the Company was established in 2002. independence of each Non-Executive Michele Hooper who was appointed as a Further information about the work undertaken during 2008 to enable the Company to comply Director.
With the exception of two of them Non-Executive Director in 2003 became the as set out below, the Board considers Companys Senior Non-Executive Director in with the SEC rules that implement section 404 that all of the Non-Executive Directors April 2007. of the Act can be found in the Sarbanes-Oxley are independent in character and judgement Act section 404 section of the Financial Review on page 47.
The Directors assessment of and that there are no relationships or At the AGM in 2008, a resolution was passed circumstances that are likely to affect, or to amend the Articles to enable the Directors the effectiveness of the internal control over could appear to affect, their independent to sanction conflicts of interest in relation to financial reporting is set out in the Financial judgement.
Louis Schweitzer was considered any Director, that amounts, or could amount, Statements on page 98. by the Board to be independent upon his to a conflict with the Companys interests and appointment as Non-Executive Chairman: which would otherwise be a breach of the The Company must disclose any significant in accordance with the UK Combined Code, Directors duty, under the relevant sections of ways in which its corporate governance the test of independence is not appropriate in the UK Companies Act 2006. practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSEs corporate relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
In September 2008, letters were sent to each governance listing standards.
In addition, For the reasons explained below, the Board of the Directors requesting them to notify the the Company must comply fully with the believes that neither Hkan Mogren, Company of any such conflicts or potential provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, nor Marcus conflicts.
The Board considered the responses Wallenberg can be determined independent to these letters and in particular whether or operation of audit committees.
These not they amounted to an actual or potential ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 Directors report 93 Code of Conduct.
The number of reports During 2008, the Global Compliance provisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees implemented by the SEC via the equivalent channels in 2007 was 133.
The remit of the under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
We believe the increase in the number of committee is to oversee and co-ordinate reports via these channels is due, in part, implementation of an effective global to our efforts to enhance these reporting compliance programme and evaluate its The Company has reviewed the corporate governance practices required to be followed channels and, in part, to the increase in effectiveness.
It does this by assessing key by US companies under the NYSEs listing awareness following the launch of the new compliance risks within and across SET standards and its corporate governance Code of Conduct and the accompanying areas: ensuring co-ordination of compliance training and communications.
To date, no auditing and monitoring: reviewing results: practices are generally consistent with those standards.
However, not all members of the material issues have been identified through and addressing significant policy violations Nomination and Governance Committee are these mechanisms.
considered independent for these purposes, The Group policies have also recently been Global Compliance provides direct assurance as explained in more detail on page 92. reviewed, and a new Global Policy Structure to the Audit Committee on matters concerning CodE oF CoNduCT was launched in November 2008 and came compliance issues, with a particular focus The new AstraZeneca Code of Conduct was into effect in January 2009.
As with the Code on compliance with IFPMA, EFPIA and US of Conduct, the Global Policies apply to all PhRMA codes.
Complementing this, GIA launched in May 2008 and is available on the Companys website, astrazeneca.
Like the Code of carries out a range of audits that includes new Code became effective on 1 July 2008 Conduct, the new Global Policies provide compliance-related audits and reviews of and applies to all Directors, officers, full-time, clearer and more comprehensive guidance, the assurance activities of other Company in plain language, to all managers and assurance functions.
The results from these part-time, contractor and temporary staff at all levels in every country where we operate.
employees as to their accountabilities in activities are reported to the Audit Committee.
It has been translated into over 40 languages key ethical, compliance and corporate and every employee has a copy in his her responsibility risk areas.
GIA is an independent appraisal function that derives its authority from the Board through local language.
It is designed to provide clear direction as to how the Companys A critical element of the effective implementation the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to commitment to honesty and integrity is to be of the new Code of Conduct and Global provide reasonable and objective assurance translated into consistent actions across all Policies is to deliver clear training and education to the Directors about the adequacy and to employees on an ongoing basis.
One of effectiveness of the Companys risk areas of the business.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct and with the standards the SET scorecard objectives for 2008 was management and control framework and detailed by the Company in support of it is to train all our employees on the new Code the internal controls over key business risks, mandatory.
The same applies to the laws and of Conduct during 2008.
Training began in including financial controls and compliance July, and all employees have completed the with laws, regulations and policies.
regulations of the countries in which we work and do business, as well as applicable course.
Further training will be delivered on national and international codes, and the an annual basis.
GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities Company seeks to operate to the highest of set down in its charter by reviewing: these standards.
A Group Finance Code of Conduct complements the Code of Conduct.
The processes for ensuring that key The new Code unites every member of the It applies to the Chief Executive Officer, business risks are effectively managed.
Group under a single Code of Conduct.
the Chief Financial Officer, the Groups The financial and operational controls It provides guidance across all areas of principal accounting officers including key activity previously covered by the US code, Finance staff in major overseas subsidiaries that help to ensure that the Groups which is therefore no longer required.
and all Finance function employees, and it assets are properly safeguarded from reinforces the importance of the integrity of losses, including fraud.
The Code also includes information on how to the Groups Financial Statements, of the report possible violations of the Code through reliability of the accounting records on which The controls that help to ensure the the appropriate channels, including the they are based and of the robustness of the reliability and integrity of management AZethics telephone lines and the new global relevant controls and processes.
Anyone who raises a possible breach in good faith will be supported ComplIANCE ANd GRoup INTERNAl AudIT GIA The processes for ensuring compliance by management and will not be subject to The role of the Global Compliance function with policies and procedures, external retaliation, which would itself be considered is to help embed a culture of ethics and legislation and regulation.
a serious violation of the Code.
We review all integrity at AstraZeneca.
Global Compliance alleged compliance breaches and concerns, works closely with GIA, with whom it provides On an ad hoc basis, whether value for and we investigate and report on them to the joint assurance reporting to the Audit money is obtained in terms of efficient Audit Committee, as appropriate.
The key priorities for our Global use of the Groups resources.
Compliance function for 2008 2009 are During 2008, 206 reports of alleged closely aligned with the Companys strategic GIA acts as a source of constructive advice and compliance breaches or other ethical concerns priorities.
During 2009, the focus will be on best practice, assisting senior management were made via the telephone helplines, embedding the compliance framework with its responsibility to improve governance, control, compliance and risk management.
com website or Global Compliance developed in 2008 into the business.
e-mail or postal addresses described in the ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 94 AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria, changes in the global economy.
In addition, dISCloSuRE polICY ANd dISCloSuRE CommITTEE The Groups Disclosure Policy provides a Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, the Group has a wide diversity of customers framework for the handling and disclosure Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Ghana scientific and suppliers across different geographic of inside information and other information of office, Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Romania, areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia that the Group is well placed to manage its interest to shareholders and the investment community.
It also defines the role of the and Ukraine.
business risks successfully despite the Disclosure Committee.
The Chief Financial current uncertain economic outlook.
Officer, the Executive Director, Development, AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, Latvia, Saudi Arabia scientific office and Slovakia.
After making enquiries, the Directors have the Group Secretary and Solicitor, the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs, the a reasonable expectation that the Company Vice-President, Investor Relations and the AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: and the Group have adequate resources to Senior Vice-President, Group Finance were Estonia, Lithuania, Romania and the continue in operational existence for the United Arab Emirates.
Accordingly, they continue the members of the Disclosure Committee during 2008.
The Deputy Company to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Secretary acts as secretary to this Dividend the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information committee.
The Disclosure Committee meets The Companys dividends for 2008 of $2.05 and Financial Statements.
132.6 pence, SEK 15.36 per Ordinary Share regularly to assist and inform the decisions of the Chief Executive Officer concerning inside amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend Changes in share capital information and its disclosure.
Periodically, payment to shareholders of $2,171 million.
Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share it reviews the Groups disclosure controls and capital during 2008, including details of the Two of the Companys employee share allotment of new shares under the Companys procedures and its own operation as part of work carried out to enable management trusts, AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited and share plans, are given in Note 20 to the and the Board to assure themselves that AstraZeneca Quest Limited, waive their right Financial Statements.
appropriate processes are operating for to a dividend on the Ordinary Shares that they hold and instead receive a nominal dividend.
Directors shareholdings the Companys planned disclosures, such as its quarterly results announcements and The Companys Articles require each Director scheduled investor relations events.
In addition, Going concern accounting basis to be the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares the Disclosure Committee members are Information on the business environment in the Company with an aggregate nominal AstraZeneca operates in, including the value of $125 500 shares.
Such holding must members of the steering group that reviews the drafts of, and the process for preparing, factors underpinning the industrys future be obtained within two months of the date of this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information.
growth prospects, are included on pages the Directors appointment.
At 31 December 9 to 11 of this Directors Report.
Details 2008, all of the Directors complied with this requirement and full details of each Directors dISCloSuRE oF INFoRmATIoN To AudIToRS of the product portfolio of the Group, our The Directors who held office at the date of approach to product development and our interests in shares of the Company are set approval of this Directors Report confirm development pipeline are included on pages out in the Directors Remuneration Report on that, so far as they are each aware, there is 16 to 24, with additional information by major page 185.
Information about the shareholding expectations of the Remuneration Committee no relevant audit information of which the product group on pages 53 to 70.
Companys auditors are unaware: and each in respect of Executive Directors and SET Director has taken all the steps that he she The financial position of the Group, its cash members and the Board in respect of ought to have taken as a Director to make flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Non-Executive Directors is also set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Separately, himself herself aware of any relevant audit are described in the Financial Review.
information and to establish that the In addition, Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial both the Non-Executive Directors and the Companys auditors are aware of that Statements include the Groups objectives, Executive Directors and members of the SET information.
policies and processes for managing its are required as a matter of policy to build up a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
capital, its financial risk management objectives, oThER mATTERS details of its financial instruments and hedging Details of these policies are set out in the activities and its exposures to credit, market Directors Remuneration Report on pages oThER CompANY dISCloSuRES ANd INFoRmATIoN and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups 181 and 179, respectively.
Subsidiaries and principal activities cash balances and borrowings are included in AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company Notes 13 and 14 of the Financial Statements.
Shareholder communications for a group of subsidiaries whose principal In its financial and business reporting to activities are described in this Directors Report The Group has considerable financial shareholders and other interested parties by on pages 8 to 96.
Principal subsidiaries means of quarterly, half-year and full-year resources available.
As at 31 December and their locations are given in the Principal 2008, the Group has $7.8 billion in financial reports, the Board aims to present a balanced Subsidiaries section on page 164. resources cash balances of $4.3 billion and understandable assessment of the and committed bank facilities of $4.3 billion, Groups financial position and prospects.
Branches and countries in which with $0.8 billion of debt due within one year.
the Company conducts business The Groups revenues are largely derived The Company makes available to shareholders In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, from sales of products which are covered information about the Company through a we disclose below the members of the by patents and for which, in the short term range of media, including a fully integrated Group that have representative or scientific html corporate website astrazeneca.
com at least, demand is relatively unaffected by branches offices outside the UK: containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 Directors report 95 Distributions to shareholders However, to enable the Company to continue The Company considers its website to be an important means of communication with The Companys stated distribution policy to support interest groups or lobbying shareholders.
Accordingly, and as permitted comprises both a regular cash dividend and organisations concerned with the review of by a change in UK company law, at the 2007 a share re-purchase component, further government policy or law reform without details of which are set out in the Financial inadvertently breaching the Companies Act AGM of the Company, a resolution was proposed and approved which authorised Review on page 37 and the Financial 2006, which defines political donations and the Company to place shareholder Statements on page 129. other political expenditure in broad terms, a communications such as the Notice of resolution will be put to shareholders at the Pursuant to the shareholders resolution 2009 AGM, similar to that passed at the AGM AGM and the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information on its corporate website in lieu of passed at the 2008 AGM authorising the on 24 April 2008, to authorise the Company sending paper copies to shareholders unless Company to purchase its own shares, and its subsidiaries to make: i donations specifically requested by shareholders.
during 2008 the Company re-purchased to political parties: ii donations to political and subsequently cancelled 13.6 million of organisations other than political parties: Whilst recognising and respecting the fact that some of our stakeholders may have its own Ordinary Shares with a nominal value and iii incur political expenditure, up to an different preferences regarding the manner in of $0.25 each, at an aggregate cost of aggregate limit of $250,000.
which they receive information about the $610 million, representing 0.9% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
In 2008, AstraZenecas US legal entities Company, we will continue to promote the benefits of electronic communication given The average price paid per share in 2008 made contributions amounting in aggregate the advantages that this has over traditional was 2397 pence.
Shares issued in respect to $815,838 2007: $321,645 to state paper-based communications both in terms of share schemes totalled 4.1 million.
political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates of the configurability and accessibility of the The Board announced in the Third Quarter information that is provided and the and Nine Month Results 2008 that no further affiliated with the major parties in accordance consequent cost savings and reduction in share re-purchases would take place in 2008 with pre-established guidelines.
No corporate environmental impact associated with in order to maintain the flexibility to invest in donations were made at federal level, and all contributions were made only where allowed reduced printing and distribution costs.
For the same reason, the Board has decided that no share reby US federal and state law.
American The Company has frequent discussions with purchases will take place in 2009. citizens or individuals holding valid green institutional shareholders on a range of issues cards exercised decision-making over the contributions and the funds were not affecting its performance.
These include The Company executed the share re-purchase individual meetings with some of the programme through a combination of provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal Companys largest institutional shareholders discretionary purchases and through entity.
Such contributions do not constitute to seek their views and any concerns can irrevocable, non-discretionary instructions.
political donations or political expenditure for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 be reported to the Board.
In addition, the The Company continues to maintain robust Company responds to individual ad hoc controls in respect of all aspects of the share or Companies Act 2006 and were made requests for discussions from institutional re-purchase programme to ensure compliance without any involvement of persons or entities shareholders and analysts.
The Groups with English and other applicable law and outside the US.
Investor Relations department acts as a main the Financial Services Authoritys Listing point of contact for investors throughout the Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules Takeovers directive year.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is and Prospectus Rules.
However, in order Following the implementation of paragraph also available to shareholders if they have to maintain flexibility, the Company will seek 13, Part VII, Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 inserted by section 992 of the concerns that contact through the normal a renewal of its current permission from channels of Chairman, Chief Executive shareholders to purchase its own shares at Companies Act 2006, the Company is Officer, Chief Financial Officer and or the the AGM on 30 April 2009. required to make certain additional disclosures.
Group Investor Relations department has Where disclosures are required they can be failed to resolve, or in relation to which such Since the Company began its share contact is inappropriate.
re-purchase programmes in 1999, a total found in other parts of this Report as listed of 376.3 million Ordinary Shares were below, each of which is incorporated into All shareholders, including private investors, re-purchased, and subsequently cancelled, this Directors Report: have an opportunity at the AGM to put at an average price of 2661 pence per share questions to members of the Board on for a consideration, including expenses, of Structure of the Companys share capital matters relating to the Companys operation $18,099 million.
and rights and obligations attaching to and performance.
Formal notification of the shares contained in the Corporate Information section starting on page 197 AGM is sent to shareholders at least one Political donations month in advance.
The Chairmen of the Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made and Notes to the Financial Statements on Boards committees ordinarily attend the any donations or incurred any expenditure in page 129.
AGM to answer questions raised by 2008 in the EU and they do not intend to do Significant holders of the Companys shareholders.
In line with the UK Combined so in the future in respect of which shareholder Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, authority is required or for which disclosure in shares contained in the Shareholder including votes withheld, are made available this Report is required under the Companies Information section starting on page 190. on request and are placed on the Companys Act 2006.
Appointment and replacement of website following the AGM.
Directors contained in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 83.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 96 Powers of Directors contained in the External auditor Corporate Governance section starting A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on page 83. on 30 April 2009 for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, London as auditor of Amendments to the Companys Articles the Company.
contained in the Corporate Information section starting on page 197.
The external auditor has undertaken various pieces of non-audit work for the Company Details of the Companys employee share during 2008.
More information about this schemes set out on pages 139 to 142. work and the audit and non-audit fees paid by the Company are set out in Note 27 There are no significant agreements to which to the Financial Statements on page 163. the Company is a party that take effect, alter The external auditor is not engaged by the or terminate on a change of control of the Company to carry out any non-audit work Company following a takeover bid.
on which it might, in the future, be required to express an audit opinion.
As explained more There are no persons, with whom the fully in the Audit Committee section on page Company has contractual or other 89, the Audit Committee has established arrangements, who are deemed to be pre-approval policies and procedures for audit essential to the business of the Company.
and non-audit work permitted to be carried out by the external auditor and has carefully Use of financial instruments monitored the objectivity and independence Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Statements of the external auditor throughout 2008. entitled Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies Financial Instruments on pages Bureau Veritas 120 to 126, include further information on the Bureau Veritas UK Limited has provided Companys use of financial instruments.
external assurance on corporate responsibility related information within this Annual Report Creditor payment policy and Form 20-F Information, and of the It is not Company policy formally to comply detailed content of the Responsibility section with the Confederation of British Industrys of AstraZenecas corporate website.
Bureau code of practice on the prompt payment of Veritas has found the information provided suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy to within this Report to be accurate and reliable.
agree to appropriate payment terms with all The full assurance statement containing suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each detailed scope, methodology, overall opinion transaction, to ensure that those suppliers and recommendations can be found on are made aware of the terms of payment and, AstraZenecas website, astrazeneca.
com: subject to their compliance, abide by the terms web page content assured by Bureau Veritas of payment.
The total amount of money owed is marked at the bottom of each page.
by AstraZeneca PLCs subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance sheet date was Bureau Veritas is an independent professional equivalent to 92 days average purchases services company that specialises in Quality, 2007: 81 days.
No equivalent disclosure is Health, Safety, Social and Environmental provided in respect of AstraZeneca PLC, as it Management with a long history in providing has no external trade creditors.
independent assurance services, and an annual turnover in 2007 of 2.06 billion.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 30 April On behalf of the Board 2009.
The meeting place will be in London.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all registered A C N KEmp Company Secretary holders of Ordinary Shares and, where requested, to the beneficial holders of shares.
29 January 2009 ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
