INTRODUCTION CHIeF eXeCUTIve OFFICeRs RevIeW 5 To help the organisation maintain our focus Seroquel XR has had approvals for acute on execution, our strategy targets four bipolar depression, acute bipolar mania and main priorities: as an adjunct therapy to lithium or divalproex for bipolar maintenance treatment in a number STRENGTHENING ouR pIpElINE of major jurisdictions.
These approvals for We are discovering and developing effective new indications put Seroquel XR on track medicines faster than ever before and the to deliver its full therapeutic potential.
considerable progress we have made in reducing development cycle times and costs In addition, our expertise in regulatory, sales has been achieved without compromising on and marketing is also helping to bring to safety and quality.
markets outside the US the biological products We are committed to delivering on our that MedImmune brought to our range, strategy and to changing the way we work During 2008, we made eight significant specifically motavizumab and FluMist.
so we are prepared for the future.
2008 was regulatory submissions across several a year of both opportunity and challenge for jurisdictions to broaden the use of our Despite the challenging market conditions, the Company.
I am proud to report that we marketed products Seroquel, Symbicort, we have continued to drive high performance delivered some significant successes against Iressa and FluMist, as well as two new product and market share gains in our Established a tough background of slowing growth rates submissions for motavizumab, an improved Markets and increased sales across North in Established Markets, ever-greater pressure anti-respiratory syncytial virus monoclonal America, Europe and Japan.
I believe our sales on costs and increasing challenge from antibody, and Onglyza, for treating Type 2 forces are among the best and we continue generic manufacturers.
We have strengthened our mid-stage to evolve our commercial model to ensure pipeline and now have 10 projects in Phase that we stay at the forefront of best practice Our strategy is clear.
At its simplest, it is to III development.
32 projects entered the in meeting the needs of our customers.
create enduring value for shareholders by pipeline during the year and 44 projects were delivering medicines that make a meaningful progressed to their next phase of development.
We continue to deliver strong, profitable growth difference to patient health.
We now have a total of 144 projects within in our Emerging Markets, while continuing a balanced pipeline of small molecule and our strategic investment in these markets Our vision is to be an innovation-driven, biological products.
This compares with 137 aimed at ensuring that we are appropriately research-based pharmaceutical company projects in 2007. resourced to deliver the full potential of the focused on human health and capable of business opportunities in these developing delivering a consistent flow of innovative and We also continue to pursue high quality economies.
One in seven dollars of our sales differentiated products to patients in markets external opportunities to enhance further our now comes from Emerging Markets and as around the world.
To achieve this we will make in-house capabilities and have completed our presence in these countries matures, and sustained investment in an industry-leading, over 40 major deals in the last two years.
as their economies strengthen, I am confident externally networked R&D organisation with These deals have increased the quality and that we will be able to increase further expertise in both small molecule and large size of our pipeline and improved the prospects business efficiency and deliver improved molecule technologies.
We will commercialise of consistently launching more new medicines profitability in the future.
our products rapidly and globally at affordable each year as the pipeline matures.
prices through a world class sales and We received further challenges to some of our marketing organisation operating in both GRoWING THE buSINESS patents during the year, the details of which primary and specialty care markets.
Backed by our 70 year track record of are set out elsewhere in this Report.
We will innovation, we have a range of medicines continue to vigorously defend our patents Underpinning our research and commercial on the market that continue to make a to protect the many years of research and operations will be a supply chain and difference in important areas of healthcare the considerable investment which have operating infrastructure, through which we are and our commitment to delivering the full delivered the medicines to which those aiming to achieve industry-leading efficiency.
benefit of these medicines to patients and patents relate.
maximising their commercial potential Above all, we will seek to apply an investment remains undiminished.
bEComING lEAN ANd AGIlE discipline to all of our activities that attaches We have to be relentless in our pursuit of equal weight to delivering patient health and Highlights of the year included the conclusion opportunities to drive further efficiencies creating shareholder wealth.
We will only of a major study of our statin, Crestor, in the across the value chain.
As well as the progress invest shareholders funds where we see primary prevention area, which demonstrated delivered in R&D, we have reshaped our attractive returns and the opportunity to significant reduction in major cardiovascular manufacturing and packing activities to create enduring shareholder value.
events 44% compared to placebo in men improve productivity whilst maintaining high and women with elevated hsCRP and other standards of quality and security: we have risk factors but low normal cholesterol levels, established agreements with third parties a level of cardiovascular risk reduction not who offer specialist outsourced expertise previously seen in a large placebo controlled in areas ranging from data management statin outcome trial.
to catering: and put even greater focus on leveraging efficiencies within our global procurement activity.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 6 Our continuing drive to improve efficiency SENIoR EXECuTIVE TEAm SET CHANGES and effectiveness resulted in further planned I am delighted that we have further reductions of our workforce in some areas strengthened the SET through the of our business during 2008 and our work appointments of Anders Ekblom and Jeff on these initiatives continues.
Anders was appointed to the role of management teams and I, take these Executive Vice-President, Development with changes very seriously and remain effect from 1 January 2009.
Jeff has already committed to ensuring that we manage these taken up his new role as the Groups General changes in line with our core values.
Counsel, having spent a number of years as Throughout, we have consulted with staff legal counsel within AstraZenecas US representatives and acted in line with local business, most recently with responsibility labour laws.
We have also provided for managing intellectual property litigation appropriate support to help individuals within the US.
pursue their careers beyond AstraZeneca and have engaged with communities around During 2008 we announced that, after a long the affected sites to mitigate the local impact.
and distinguished career within the Company, John Patterson, Executive Director, doING buSINESS THE RIGHT WAy Development, will retire at the end of March I want AstraZeneca to be valued as a source 2009.
John has made an important and of great medicines, but also to be trusted for lasting contribution to the business over the the way in which we do business.
Therefore, course of his career with AstraZeneca.
Under our strategic focus includes a fourth priority, his leadership, the productivity and efficiency which underpins and supports achievement of our product development has improved of the first three.
We must continue to nurture significantly, and we now have the largest a culture of responsibility and accountability pipeline in our history.
Also in 2008, David across all aspects of our business activity to Mott, formerly President of MedImmune left ensure that AstraZeneca continues to be the Company to pursue other opportunities.
welcomed as a trusted member of society.
The role of President of MedImmune has been taken on by Tony Zook, who has also Our core values are the cornerstone of this retained his responsibilities as Chief Executive culture and in 2007, we reviewed and Officer, North America and Executive expanded our Code of Conduct to provide Vice-President, Global Marketing.
clear direction as to how these high level values are to be translated into consistent looKING AHEAd actions across all areas of our business.
Despite the very significant and economic The new Code went into effect in 2008, and challenges being experienced around the it was followed by mandatory training during world, I am confident the progress that we the year for everyone in the Company.
continue to make in our four priority areas means AstraZeneca is well placed to manage During the year, 86% of our employees the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly participated in our global employee opinion changing business environment.
Results showed that employee we have the strategy, the engines for growth engagement scores defined as the extent and the levels of commitment it takes to to which people are committed to the future continue making a meaningful difference in success of the Company were very strong, patient health through great medicines, and and we continue to outperform other creating enduring value for our shareholders pharmaceutical companies in this area.
The results also indicated that people were seeing increased levels of co-operation between senior leaders, leading to more effective global and cross-functional working.
The survey also identified some key areas that continue to require attention, including change management, personal development and leadership communication.
I take this dAVId R bRENNAN Chief Executive Officer feedback very seriously and new targets that address these issues have been included in the Senior Executive Teams performance goals for 2009.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
