We have to make outstanding customer service a differentiator for BT.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman As a company committed to the proposition that better Your Board communications can mean better lives and a better world, we will Im delighted that Ian Livingston is taking over from Ben as your be providing the communications services infrastructure for one of Chief Executive.
He has delivered brilliantly for BT, both as Group the worlds greatest sporting events and putting the BT brand at Finance Director and CEO of BT Retail.
He was the clear choice of the heart of a Games for the Digital Age.
The partnership will be the Board after a rigorous process.
He leads a team of executive a fantastic opportunity to showcase BT and our capabilities who directors of exceptional talent: Hanif Lalani, who was recently we are, what we believe in and what we can do in the context of named the 2008 Real FD CBI finance director of the year FTSE a key event in the life of the nation.
100 : Franois Barrault, CEO of BT Global Services: and Gavin Im also delighted that BT is giving a boost to Team GB athletes Patterson, who has been CEO of BT Retail since 1 May 2008. by helping fund their journey to the Beijing Olympic Games in Id like to thank Andy Green and Paul Reynolds both of whom August.
stepped down as executive directors during the year.
They provided From our perspective, the countdown to London 2012 has first-class support for Ben over a number of years and I wish already started.
them well in their new careers.
My thanks also to Larry Stone who provided excellent support to the Board as Company Secretary for The future the past six years, and who moves on to become BTs President of Looking to the future, BT will continue to deliver on its strategy Group Public and Government Affairs.
He is replaced by Andrew and to create new and exciting ways for our customers to Parker who was previously General Counsel, BT Retail.
That strategy is creating value for There have also been a number of changes to your nonour shareholders.
In 2009, we expect to deliver continued growth executive team during the year.
Baroness Margaret Jay and John a a in revenue, EBITDA and earnings per share as we continue our Nelson both left after six years of invaluable service to BT.
In their transformation from a xed-line business into a software-driven place, I would like to welcome two new non-executive directors, global communications services company.
We also expect our free both of whom bring a wide range of skills and experience with cash ow to be at a similar level to 2008 and to increase dividends them.
In addition to a distinguished political career, Patricia Hewitt per share in 2009.
I believe that we have the right team in place has extensive business and international experience.
Eric Daniels and the right culture throughout the organisation an absolute is group CEO of Lloyds TSB.
In addition, his years as chairman and commitment to the customer and a determination to get it right CEO of Zona Financiera, a leading Latin American financial portal, first time.
There is every reason for optimism.
will be of great value to us as we seek to build further our presence in the region.
A Games for the Digital Age Im very proud to report that in March 2008 we announced that BT had been selected as the of cial communications services partner for the London 2012 Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman 14 May 2008 a Before speci c items and leaver costs.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 7 Overview Overview Chief Executives statement This is the last time I shall be writing to BTs shareholders as Chief Executive, so I should start off by saying thanks for your support and for the dialogue we have shared over the past six and a half exciting years.
During that time, Ive had the privilege of leading your company on an amazing journey from a UK-focused lines and calls business to a global communications services company.
The time comes in any A global company organisation when it is good to refresh the leadership.
WellA year ago I made the point that all our customers are increasingly managed companies plan ahead for a smooth succession to a thinking and acting like global citizens.
If BT is to continue to new leader.
And thats just what weve been doing.
I have fought deliver for them we have to be a global business with local a battle between my heart, which tells me to stay with this great presence and insight.
company, and my head which says its time to go.
Finally my head That means being where our customers want us to be, bringing has won!
our customers the best services and technology from around Im particularly proud of the fact that todays BT is a company the world, understanding local customs, and thinking global with such strength and depth that we have been able to appoint in everything we do.
We operate in over 170 countries and are our new Chief Executive Ian Livingston internally.
Ian is a serving customers worldwide.
Our non-UK revenue was up 18% in great guy who is supported by a world-class team and I know I 2008 and accounted for 17% of the groups total revenue.
am leaving the company in the best possible hands.
New leaders We have a long-established presence in North America and set organisations new challenges and pose new questions.
Im continental Europe, but were also increasingly committing to con dent that Ian and his team will be doing just that.
exciting and fast growing markets such as Asia Paci c, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Eastern Europe.
We have Delivery through transformation been building a genuinely global workforce with 17 nationalities By following a consistent strategy we have created a business represented in the companys top 200 managers.
During the year, model in which delivering consistent financial improvement has we opened new R&D facilities in China and Hungary and a shared become a habit.
We have delivered 24 consecutive quarters of services centre in India.
And we continued to win and deliver on a a growth in EPS earnings per share.
Back in 2002, EPS was a wide range of long-term global networked IT services contracts b 9.0 pence per share.
Fast forward six years, and that number around the world.
In Asia Paci c we have witnessed spectacular is 23.9 pence per share.
Thats grown more than two and a half revenue growth of 66%.
In 2002, recognising that parts of our traditional business were Delivering a better network in decline, we adopted the strategy of growing new wave revenue Our Openreach access network business may only have been in from broadband, mobility and global networked IT services.
In existence for a couple of years, but it has made great progress in 2008, new wave activities accounted for 39% of total revenue.
The its drive to deliver a better network.
Set up to ensure equal access new wave really has become business as usual.
to the first mile of BTs UK access network, it has been focused This absolute commitment to delivery has underpinned the on providing a local access environment in which its customers transformation of the UKs communications infrastructure, one of businesses can thrive.
UK plcs most vital assets.
The results speak for themselves.
In April 2002 when we first set targets for During the 2008 financial year, Openreach reduced the average broadband, there were just under 150,000 DSL connections in the lead times for the provision of services to businesses by 40% and UK.
When we said we would achieve five million connections in five those offered to consumer customers by 54%.
Of course, delivery years people said we were crazy.
In the end we achieved is also about putting things right when they go wrong.
for business repairs improved by 54 % and for consumer repairs Local loop unbundling LLU which enables other by 44 %.
communications providers to offer their own services with their own brand and pricing structures over the BT network Transforming our wholesale business has triggered one of the most fundamental changes in the The success of LLU has reshaped the competitive landscape in communications industry in a generation.
A couple of years ago, the UK.
It certainly changes the nature of our wholesale business.
we were aiming for a target of 1.5 million unbundled lines for nonWholesale revenue declined in the 2008 financial year, in part as a BT communications providers.
At 31 March 2008 wed reached result of volume decreases resulting from migrations to LLU.
came as no surprise, and we have a strategy in place to deal with Operationally 2008 was a very strong year in which we the change, seizing the opportunity to reposition ourselves as a continued to deliver for customers around the world.
leading provider of wholesale managed network solutions.
As the industry migrates from traditional to next generation services we can help our customers negotiate this transition and transform their businesses.
During 2008, we signed a number a Before speci c items and leaver costs.
b From continuing activities before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, reported under UK GAAP.
8 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Its a pretty inspirational story and Im very proud to have been associated with it.
Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive of major managed network services contracts worth a projected total of 1.8 billion over their lifetimes.
These range from a major outsourcing contract with the Post Of ce to providing enhanced connectivity for mobile operators T-Mobile, Orange and Virgin Media.
New communications possibilities In a highly competitive retail market, we have continued to wow our customers with new communications possibilities.
Consumer Ian Livingston customers can now choose from an innovative range of broadband services, including BT Total Broadband Anywhere which ensures Message from Ian Livingston that the broadband experience is available all the time, at home It is a great honour to be taking over from Ben Verwaayen as and on the move.
Or they can tune in to new possibilities in CEO of one of the worlds great companies.
Since joining the BT entertainment.
BT Vision, our next generation TV service, already Board in 2002, I have worked very closely with Ben and have offers a rich selection of content with much more to come.
The seen up close the passion and leadership he has brought to the emphasis with our SME customers is to help them succeed by job.
He has transformed the company, restored the pride of BT letting them do the things they do best while we look after their people, and placed us on a course towards further pro table IT and communications needs.
They can run their businesses while growth and a future full of exciting possibilities.
accessing the type of IT and communications services previously Looking across the markets in which BT operates there is no available only to larger corporations.
shortage of people who are focused on the challenges, but I and the rest of the management team see enormous opportunities The people who make it happen ahead.
So, BT is a company with a strong track record of delivery.
We have Globally we have established ourselves as a world leader, proved that we will deliver what we promise and we have proved helping multinational organisations transform themselves to get that our commitment to innovation really makes a difference for the most out of globalisation.
The continuing rapid growth of our customers.
emerging economies and of world trade puts us in pole position But none of this could have happened without the creativity, as a provider of networked IT services.
skills and enthusiasm of BT people.
And Id l ike to thank them all for In the UK, demand for broadband everywhere and for the unwavering support theyve given me and for their un agging new services to be delivered over broadband means the next commitment to our strategy.
In one sense the story about the way five years are shaping up to be just as stimulating and full of this business has changed in the past few years has less to do with commercial opportunity as the last.
broadband or LLU or earnings per share.
We need to seize these opportunities while keeping a Speci cally, its a story about people who are proud to work for relentless focus on being number one for customer service.
the company, who have dared to dream and who recognise the We must deliver the financial returns that our shareholders absolute importance of meeting the needs of their customers now have every right to expect, and work hard to create a regulatory and in the future.
climate in which we can continue to invest for the future.
I think its a pretty inspirational story and Im very proud to have I take on my new role very proud of what BT has achieved been associated with it.
The more that I see the results coming under Bens leadership, and certain that the coming years will be through in this business and the more I see BT people stepping up more exciting still.
to the challenge, the more convinced I am that this company will continue to do great things in the future.
Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive 14 May 2008 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 9 Overview
