Vodafone Executive Summary Chief Executives Review Our strategy is delivering results and continuing to position us as a leader in the communications industry.
Strategic objectives Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe Innovate and deliver on our customers total communications needs Deliver strong growth in emerging markets Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns Review of the year We have made strong progress over the past year with our strategy and met or exceeded our stated financial expectations Align capital structure and shareholder in all areas.
returns policy to strategy Our cash flow generation remains strong, supporting our robust financial position and shareholder returns, with free cash flow of 5.5 billion.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 11.0% to 12.50 pence, enabling dividends per share to increase by 11.1% to 7.51 pence.
prices and continue to drive cost efficiency across the Group.
Importantly, we have positioned ourselves to deliver total Group revenue increased by 14.1% to 35.5 billion, or 4.2% on communications to our customers by investing significantly in an organic basis.
In Europe, organic revenue growth was 2.0% our mobile broadband networks, establishing fixed broadband with competitive and regulatory pressures continuing to impact capability across our European markets and developing services on solid underlying growth.
EMAPA delivered further strong specifically for the mobile internet.
growth with revenue increasing by 45.1%, or 14.5% on an organic basis, with double digit growth across many markets.
Group There have been a number of key achievements against our five adjusted operating profit increased by 5.7% to 10.1 billion, strategic objectives in the last 12 months which are discussed with a continued strong contribution from Verizon Wireless in below, together with an overview of how the communications the US, which continues to be an important and attractive environment is evolving and why we believe Vodafone is market.
We remain committed to our investment in Verizon uniquely positioned to succeed.
Wireless, which continues to perform very well on all key metrics, with constant currency growth of 14.5% in revenue Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe and 24.8% in adjusted operating profit and market leadership Our core revenue initiatives continue to focus on offering in contract customers, churn and profitability.
innovative tariffs, larger minute bundles and targeted promotions to stimulate additional usage as well as improving customer We invested 5.1 billion in capitalised fixed asset additions, lifetime value.
Overall, voice usage increased by 16.7% in the including 1.0 billion in our operations in India, in line with our year, with good growth across our major markets.
We are plans, to support the rapid growth.
particularly strong in the business segment where our unique footprint and innovative services have enabled us to create a Vodafone now has over 260 million proportionate mobile market leading position, which we strengthened earlier in the customers worldwide with strong growth during the year in our year by establishing Vodafone Global Enterprise to service our EMAPA region, in particular in our new business in India which has largest multinational customers.
been successfully integrated into the Group and now has over 44 million customers, with over 50% pro forma revenue growth.
Pricing pressure from competition and regulation remains strong, with a 15.8% fall in the effective voice price per In a challenging operating environment, we are stimulating minute for our Europe region, offsetting the benefits from greater usage and introducing new services to offset falling growth in usage.
4 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Messaging revenue increased by 8.1% on an organic basis, with a Our data revenue growth is being enabled by the investment in our 28.1% increase in the total number of text and picture messages 3G networks which now offer up to 3.6 Mbps and by the end of the sent.
This reflects strong performances in the year in Italy and year will begin to offer 14.4 Mbps, which will provide a compelling the UK, primarily through targeted promotions and tariffs.
alternative to fixed broadband for many customers.
We have a clear technology path which will ultimately lead to 4G technology but not In 2006, we set out a number of core cost reduction programmes before 2010.
Unlike the transition from 2G to 3G, we are shaping 4G that are now delivering results and have contributed to the key today together with Verizon Wireless and China Mobile to ensure a cost targets we met this year, with savings of around 300 million smoother transition for the industry, with no step change in cost.
during the year, bringing the cumulative savings to date to around 550 million.
We have achieved mobile capital expenditure at In addition, some customers need the data speeds of fixed 10% of mobile revenue for 2008, with important contributions broadband and during the year we established fixed broadband from centralising key purchasing activities and consolidating capability in our European markets as part of our strategy to our data centres, while having enhanced the speed and data deliver total communications.
We are leveraging our brand, capability of our mobile networks.
These programmes, together distribution and customer relationships to provide an attractive, with the outsourcing of certain IT operations, have also contributed integrated proposition.
At the end of the year we had 3.6 million to maintaining broadly stable operating expenses for 2008 fixed broadband customers in 13 markets, principally in Germany compared to 2006.
This has been achieved in a period when and in our newly acquired businesses in Italy and Spain.
customers have increased on an organic basis by 19%, voice minutes by 36% and data volumes by over tenfold.
We are substituting fixed line voice services for mobile in the home or the office by offering fixed location pricing plans giving Innovate and deliver on our customers total customers fixed line prices when they call from within or around communications needs their home or office.
We have made good progress over the year Our strategy is to expand beyond our core mobile services and now have 4.4 million Vodafone At Home customers and over to offer a choice of communications, entertainment and internet 3 million Vodafone Office customers, up from 3.3 million and services, with a focus on four key areas.
These areas generated 2.3 million, respectively, a year ago.
around 13% of Group revenue this year and we expect this to increase to around 20% in 2010.
Mobile advertising is another focus area for us and we have been trialling various business models, including targeted Over the year, data revenue increased by 40.6% on an organic demographic advertising through display and search advertising, basis to 2.2 billion, principally driven by continued strong and now have agreements with over 40 leading brands.
We growth in business email and PC connectivity devices, which believe mobile advertising represents a significant opportunity in total nearly doubled to 5.8 million.
We have seen strong take for us and, throughout the year, have put in place the right up this year of USB modems, which provide easy to use mobile foundations to grow this business in the future.
broadband access for PCs and laptops to consumers and business customers.
For consumers, we also took the Deliver strong growth in emerging markets opportunity to refresh our mobile internet offerings during the Our emerging market assets continue to perform well.
Vodafone year in eight markets, resulting in 2 million customers signing Essar in India is delivering very strong growth and performing in up to flat rate mobile internet access.
line with our acquisition plan.
Revenue increased by over 50% during the year on a pro forma basis, driven by rapid expansion of the customer base, with an average of 1.5 million net Total communications revenue customer additions per month since acquisition.
We have also share of total communications revenue, % established an independent tower company with two other operators to drive further strong, cost efficient growth.
2008 2007 Vodacom recorded constant currency revenue growth of 16.9% from its market leading position in South Africa and 38% 48 strong growth in its southern Africa operations.
We also saw Mobile data revenue growth of 29.9% in Egypt, 20.3% in Romania and Fixed line services pro forma growth of 24% in Turkey, all on a constant currency Fixed location mobile services basis.
The value of our investment in China Mobile has increased 43 Advertising and other by over 60% since the beginning of the year to 4.8 billion currently, with its customer base increasing 24% to 392.1 million 38 and market penetration at 41%.
44 In addition to strong customer growth, we are differentiating ourselves through a number of initiatives.
Most significantly, we are leveraging the Groups scale to provide low cost 13 handsets, which retail for as little as $20 and enable us to 12 address developing economies without the need for subsidies.
1 1 We shipped 7 million handsets in the year, mostly to India, Total bn 4.6 3.3 making us the second largest supplier of handsets in that market.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 5 Vodafone Executive Summary Chief Executives Review continued Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns of our customer information and support systems.
However, We completed the acquisition of Vodafone Essar in India in these developments in our industry also challenge our May 2007.
We also strengthened our total communications traditional business model as partners such as software offerings in Italy and Spain through the purchase of Tele2s providers, internet companies and handset manufacturers assets in those countries in December 2007 and in May 2008 also become competitors.
acquired the minority interests in Arcor.
In December 2007, we won the auction for the second mobile licence in Qatar The industry is changing and, although the majority of our through a consortium with the Qatar Foundation, in which revenue will continue to be from our core mobile business, we are the controlling partner.
All our transactions are subject we are positioning ourselves for this change through our to strict financial criteria so as to deliver superior returns to total communications strategy to deliver broadband and our shareholders.
We now have 42 partner market agreements.
These Secondly, competitive and regulatory pressures continue to arrangements enable us to increase the presence of our brand reduce prices in the industry and therefore we continue to and services without the need for direct equity investment, stimulate additional revenue and reduce costs.
On revenue, either because the investment opportunity does not exist or there is still significant opportunity for growth in mobile usage.
Average mobile usage levels per customer in Europe remain well below markets such as the US and India and significant Align capital structure and shareholder returns volumes of minutes continue to be carried by fixed networks.
policy to strategy The Board remains committed to its policy of distributing 60% Our established major cost reduction programmes are now of adjusted earnings per share by way of dividend.
Our robust delivering results and we are continuing to look at ways of financial and operating performance, together with a positive managing our costs to maintain our market competitiveness.
impact from foreign currency exchange rates, offset the dilution During the year, we have recently centralised our handset arising from the India acquisition and delivered 11% growth in design and procurement to not only drive cost savings but adjusted earnings per share and therefore in dividends per also to facilitate the development of devices for the mobile share.
Notwithstanding the increase in net debt to 25.1 billion, internet.
We also continue to standardise our network design our long term credit ratings currently remain at low single A and deployment, particularly in the core network to take on average, in line with our Group policy.
advantage of an all IP infrastructure.
One of the more important developments during the year has been the extension of Evolving environment network sharing across our markets, with agreements reached Two years ago we updated our strategy to reflect developments in Italy and the UK, resulting in site sharing in nine out of our ten in our industry and have made strong progress executing Europe region markets.
This is a key area of focus for us and we against our objectives since then.
The communications industry aim to build on the current level of around one third of sites continues to evolve and our five strategic objectives continue shared and explore opportunities to extend the scope of to position us well in this environment.
We have made good progress on our cost saving initiatives over the past year.
Firstly, customer needs and preferences in particular continue to evolve.
We are transitioning from being a provider of core Finally, while penetration is very high in Europe, across mobile voice and messaging services to offering a wide range emerging markets it is on average still much lower which, of communications and one of the key advancements in the together with higher GDP growth prospects, provides a past year has been the mobile internet.
Customers are taking significant revenue growth opportunity.
Over time, we content and applications from their PC to their mobile and this expect these markets will also show the same demand for needs a compelling mobile internet experience.
entertainment and internet based services that we are seeing in more developed markets and we are well placed to meet We are, therefore, developing a range of internet services and such demand.
content specifically for mobile by enhancing our successful Vodafone live!
offering to include email, instant messaging Our money transfer solution, Vodafone M-Pesa Vodafone and social networking while leveraging the power of mobile Money Transfer, was launched earlier in the year and is through location based services.
We are also ensuring that proving to be a significant point of differentiation in Kenya as devices are developed with innovative functionality and we provide some banking capability through mobile phones intuitive user interfaces that are suitable for the mobile internet, to a largely cash based country.
This is an evolving area which with features such as touch screen technology.
Our investment we expect to bring to more countries and also has the in high speed data networks provides the platform to deliver potential to expand beyond the current focus on money these services to customers, as does the ongoing development transfers and micro payments.
6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 As well as driving growth in our existing emerging market Personal reflections assets, we will continue to explore further opportunities to I have decided to retire as the Chief Executive of the Company expand our emerging market footprint through selective following the AGM on 29 July.
It has been a privilege to lead investments, with a particular focus on Africa and Asia.
Vodafone over the last five years.
We have made significant progress, changing our strategy from mobile to total Uniquely positioned to deliver growth communications, including broadband and the internet.
We believe that Vodafone is uniquely positioned to capitalise on We have secured some important assets in markets including the evolving communications environment.
Our portfolio of assets Turkey and India, and we have integrated these acquired provides the advantages of scale and exposure to attractive growth, businesses to build a global company.
Our Board and and leverages our strong customer franchise in both consumer employees are aligned behind the strategic direction of and business segments supported by a leading global brand.
the business and the Company is well positioned to succeed in the future.
We have issued a strong set of 2008 annual We have a market leading position in mature, high cash flow results in line with, or ahead of, guidance and the Company generating markets in Europe combined with an increasing has built strong momentum in executing its strategy.
I have exposure to higher growth emerging markets in Eastern Europe, accomplished what I set out to achieve on taking the role Middle East, Africa and Asia, in particular in India.
We also have as Chief Executive and therefore felt the time was right to a material position in the attractive US market through our stake hand over responsibilities to a successor.
I am delighted that in Verizon Wireless.
Vittorio Colao will be taking over as Chief Executive.
He has the knowledge and vision to drive the business towards By expanding beyond our historic core mobile offerings to future success.
deliver data and fixed broadband services through our total communications strategy, this enables us to continue to be a I believe Vodafone is well positioned to continue delivering leader in the increasingly integrated communications industry value to both customers and shareholders.
I would like to and therefore supports continued strong cash generation and thank the Board for its support, insight and counsel in recent returns to shareholders.
I would also like to thank our 72,000 employees for their ongoing customer focus and wish them every success Prospects for the year ahead in the future.
Operating conditions are expected to continue to be challenging in Europe given the current economic environment and ongoing pricing and regulatory pressures but with continued positive trends in messaging and data revenue and voice usage growth.
We expect increasing market penetration to continue to result in Arun Sarin overall strong growth for the EMAPA region.
Our geographically Chief Executive diverse portfolio should provide some resilience in the current economic environment.
We also anticipate significant benefit from recent changes in foreign exchange rates compared to 2008, particularly in respect of the euro, which we have assumed to be on average at 1.30 to sterling for the year.
Outlook for 2009 Our revenue expectations for the year ahead reflect our drive for growth, particularly in respect of our total communications bn 2009 outlook 2008 actual strategy for data and fixed broadband services and in emerging markets.
Adjusted operating profit is therefore anticipated to reflect a greater proportion of lower margin fixed broadband Revenue 39.8 to 40.7 35.5 services together with continued strong performance from Verizon Wireless in the US.
Adjusted operating profit 11.0 to 11.5 10.1 Capital expenditure on fixed assets includes an increase in investment in India to drive further strong growth.
Capital intensity is expected to be maintained at around 10% of Capitalised fixed revenue for the total of our Europe region and common asset additions 5.3 to 5.8 5.1 functions, with continued investment in growth.
Free cash flow excludes spectrum and licence payments and is after taking into account 0.3 billion from payments for capital expenditure Free cash flow 5.1 to 5.6 5.5 deferred from 2008.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 7 Vodafone Executive Summary Performance at a Glance Vodafone is the worlds leading international mobile communications group, providing a wide range of communications services.
Regions Europe Europe EMAPA EMAPA Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia, Registered proportionate mobile Registered proportionate mobile customers millions customers millions Pacific and Affiliates 118.8 141.7 Average mobile customer Average mobile customer penetration % penetration % 100 36 Analysis of Group Contribution to Group 2008 revenue 2008 adjusted revenue 2008 % revenue growth 2008 % operating profit 100 Europe EMAPA 26 EMAPA 66 bn Growth %bn Growth % 80 Europe 74 60 26.1 6.1 6.2 0.8 40 Europe 34 20 0 EMAPA bn Growth %bn Growth % Analysis of Group adjusted Contribution to Group operating profit 2008 % adjusted operating profit growth 2008 % 9.3 45.13.7 15.0 100 EMAPA 37 EMAPA 89 80 60 Europe 62 Group 40 bn Growth %bn Growth % 20 35.5 14.1 10.1 5.7 Europe 9 0 Where relevant, growth rates include the impact of acquisitions and disposals, in particular in India.
8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Services Voice Messaging Data Fixed line & other Vodafones core service to Text, picture and video messaging Provides email, mobile Fixed broadband offerings customers is to provide mobile on mobile devices connectivity and internet to meet customers total voice communications on your mobile communications needs Outgoing minutes usage SMS usage PC connectivity devices Fixed broadband customers billions of minutes billions of messages millions millions 282.9 131.4 2.7 3.6 Analysis of Group service Contribution to Group 2008 revenue by service revenue 2008 % service revenue growth 2008 % 100 Voice Messaging Fixed line 7 Fixed line 6 bn Growth %bn Growth % Data 7 Data 18 24.9 11.74.1 13.7 Messaging 12 80 Messaging 12 Data Fixed line & other 60 bn Growth %bn Growth % 2.2 52.71.9 19.9 40 Voice 63 Voice 75 Group service revenue 20 bn Growth % 33.0 14.4 0 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 9
