6 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Dr D J Price CHIEF EXECUTIVE Review by the Chief Executive The operating cash in ow during the year Group results Revenue was excellent at 83.7 million, equivalent to a The Group performed strongly throughout the cash conversion rate of 99%.
Our operating year and revenue from continuing operations increased cash in ow in the second half of the year was increased by 39% to 354.2 million.
Growth of particularly strong, with an equivalent cash 17% was achieved from our existing businesses, by 39% to conversion of over 130%.
Capital expenditure 14% from the full year trading of acquisitions increased by 113% to 34 million as the Group made in 2007 and 8% from the four 354.2 million continued to invest signi cantly in improved acquisitions completed in 2008.
The Energetics automation, additional manufacturing facilities division had another excellent year, achieving and important improvements in manufacturing a 54% increase in revenue to a record level safety.
Research and development R&D also of 196.7 million, in spite of a disappointing increased by 39% to 9.3 million, driven by performance from our US subsidiary, a signi cant increase in customer funding.
The Countermeasures Company funded R&D grew at a more modest division increased its sales to a record level of 7%.
Our new five year research partnership 157.5 million, with very strong growth at both with the Defence Academy at Shrivenham Kilgore and Chemring Countermeasures in the has started well with four doctoral research UK.
The second half performance of the Group programmes and three major product studies.
was particularly good, generating 204 million of revenue, 57 million of underlying operating At the year end, the Group had a record order pro t and 75 million of operating cash ow.
book of 409 million, some 38% higher than the previous year.
This level of order cover Underlying operating margins for the Group continues to underpin the prospects for 2009. remained steady at 24% for the full year, with I am pleased to report that the order book for the strong second half performance 28% the Energetics division at the year end was compensating, as expected, for the lower 281 million, 58% higher than the previous margins achieved in the first half.
Operating year, continuing to provide a real foundation for margins in the Energetics Division improved further strong growth in the future.
to 23%, due to the introduction of automated manufacturing and the operational gearing Since the year end, the order book has achieved from higher volumes of activity.
increased by a further 43% to a record current However, margins in our Countermeasures order book of 585 million.
division reduced slightly to 29%, as the material cost of magnesium and higher sales of naval countermeasures affected the businesses.
Health and safety Consequently, underlying operating pro t rose Following the detailed investigation into the by 39% to 84.9 million.
We remain con dent incident that occurred in October 2007 in a that this level of pro tability is sustainable into manufacturing building at the Simmel Difesa the future.
site in Colleferro, Italy, a detailed restart process was implemented to ensure that appropriate lessons were learned and that risks were reduced to as low as reasonably practicable, in line with the Groups commitment to achieving the highest levels of safety in both its products and its manufacturing facilities.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 7 The restart process was reviewed by Energetics Revenue independent experts and then implemented Orders: 249.2 million prior to commencing any operation, including Revenue: 196.7 million up 45% to all buildings and operations not involved in the Operating pro t: 45.7 million incident.
It included the use of a forty seven 110.8 million for Operating margin: 23% point checklist which ensured that all risks were adequately considered, mitigated and managed.
Pyrotechnics and our pyrotechnics explosive ordnance disposal EOD Simmel Difesa has now safely begun production Our pyrotechnics and EOD business continues in all areas, with the exception of the building and EOD business to grow strongly, with revenue up 45% in which the incident occurred, which was year-on-year to 110.8 million.
Production was affected subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, was a great success during the first four months of the year but during its first full year of ownership, generating the impact was minimised by ensuring that 25.8 million of pyrotechnic business.
key production items were sub-contracted to Demand for its pyrotechnic illumination mortar alternative manufacturing facilities whilst the rounds continued to be strong, driven by restart process was being implemented.
These continued high levels of operational use during alternative manufacturing facilities were fully peacekeeping operations by the UK Army.
Over quali ed by the customer and have performed 60,000 rounds were delivered this year and the well during the remainder of the year.
award of a multi-year contract for the supply of another 140,000 white-light and 50,000 black-light illumination rounds will maintain volume production throughout 2009 and 2010.
Chemring Defence also performed well, with encouraging growth in the sales of both pyrotechnic and demolition stores products.
Production of smoke products, for signalling or screening, grew by 26% to record levels with over 800,000 units delivered to the UK Ministry of Defence and other NATO countries.
Quali cation of the L96 L97 vehicle discharge grenades for the US Army was completed to schedule and volume production continues in line with the Revenue by destination 2008 multi-year requirements.
Sales of demolition US 142m 40% stores grew by 20% year-on-year, with a UK 86m 24% signi cant expansion of our customer base Europe 67m 19% in Europe and the Middle East.
In particular, our portable mine-breaching system, PEMBS, Middle East 30m 9% continued to be in demand, with new orders Far East 23m 6% from Australia, Spain, Poland and Slovenia.
Rest of world 7m 2% 8 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED Battle eld training products have also Our US subsidiary, Technical Ordnance, had a The US Army continued to be in strong demand.
The disappointing year, with sales of pyrotechnics customer base for our MECS multiple effects substantially lower than the previous year.
believes that cartridge system battle eld simulation Multi-year contracts for the delivery of BBU-35, ammunition continued to expand, with France BBU-36 and CCU-45 impulse cartridges for realistic training and Saudi Arabia becoming important new the US Air Force and US Navy were completed customers.
Record production levels were during the year but there has been a signi cant conditions are a achieved for thunder ash products, with delay in the follow-on competitive process.
The deliveries of in excess of 1 million units to consequent gap in production reduced annual vital component European and Far Eastern customers.
US volumes by 30% to 4.2 million units, which Army usage continued to be strong and had a substantial impact on revenue.
The new production reached 1.5 million units during multi-year contracts are now under negotiation.
The US Army believes that realistic training conditions are a vital component of All of our new acquisitions performed strongly readiness maintaining readiness, and plans to signi cantly during 2008.
Richmond Electronics was expand the capabilities of its training ranges.
acquired at the start of the financial year and Towards the end of the year, Chemring Defence has made an encouraging start, with a record received a $5 million contract from Unitech in level of sales and the successful capture of the US for the delivery of the new Improvised major orders from the UK, Italy, Bangladesh Explosive Devices IED simulator launchers for and Kuwaiti governments.
Titan Dynamics, in installation at various US Army training ranges.
Texas, has also made great progress since its Further opportunities for the system and the acquisition, with a further 400 BES battle eld associated MECS ammunition are expected to effects systems launchers installed at US Army emerge over the next twelve months as a large ranges to take the installed base to more than number of countries involved in peacekeeping 1,500.
The production of BES cartridges has activities evaluate what type of training is also been increased to 65,000 per month needed prior to the deployment of troops.
using the automated manufacturing expertise at Technical Ordnance.
Further increases to 100,000 per month are planned to occur in 2009.
Scot also performed well, delivering strong sales and operating margins during the latter part of 2008.
It secured new contracts for the supply of BBU-63 impulse cartridges for use on the B-2 stealth bomber and a substantial contract from Lockheed Martin for the aft and forward thrusters used on the Atlas V heavy lift launch vehicle.
The business also won some important contracts canard actuator, separation nuts on the Orion Crew Expeditionary Vehicle, which is the NASA successor to the Space Shuttle.
Chemring Marine also grew strongly in 2008, expanding sales of its maritime distress signals by 16%, with a signi cant increase in deliveries to the US market to satisfy cruise liner requirements.
Worldwide quali cation of both its new Mk8 parachute distress rocket and its new day and night distress are were achieved in the year and these new products should maintain our competitive position for the future.
Chemring Energetics saw lower production volumes of pyrotechnics during the year, principally due to a one-off change by Martin Baker in their manufacturing inventory policy that led to a short-term stop in demand for pyromechanisms and rocket motors used during their ejector seat production.
A greater emphasis has been placed on growing the munitions component and sub-system opportunities.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 9 Munitions Revenue Our munitions business also grew strongly, with revenue up 66% year-on-year to 85.9 million.
up 66% to The full year of trading from Simmel Difesa was an important component of this growth, generating 85.9 million 26 million of revenue.
Naval ammunition continued to be the most important aspect of the for our business, with deliveries of 40mm ammunition to a number of Italian and Middle Eastern customers.
munitions Production of 76mm naval ammunition remained steady during the year with deliveries to several Far Eastern and South American countries.
business Simmel was also awarded its first contract from the French Navy for the quali cation of a range of 76mm ammunition for the French Horizon and FREMM frigates.
Simmel had further success in its other niche Chemring Energetics is also working with markets.
It delivered the first batch of 120mm BAE Systems and other prime contractors on tank ammunition to a NATO customer to the development of new explosive materials, schedule, and received a signi cant award particularly those that are insensitive to re for the supply of 125mm tank ammunition or high velocity impacts.
During the year, we to a Middle East customer.
A quali cation received a substantial contract from Nexter for programme for the dual-mode warhead of the insensitive explosive material for use in the new ASTER air defence missile was also successfully French 155mm ammunition.
completed during the year and volume production has now started.
Technical Ordnance also expanded its component supply business with the principal US ammunition prime contractors, ATK and General Dynamics.
Production of explosive detonators, pellets and tracers increased by 24% year-on-year and we continue to explore the opportunity for more sub-system contracts, such as complete fuzes.
The newly acquired Martin Electronics performed well during the last few months of the year, increasing production and capturing a number of important new orders.
Production of the M228 training grenade fuze continued strongly at 300,000 units per month in its semi-automated facility.
Full automation of the assembly, inspection and packaging was introduced during 2008 and has successfully completed all quali cation testing.
Contract options in excess of $22 million were also awarded.
The munitions part of Chemring Energetics grew strongly in 2008, with good progress Martin Electronics also successfully made on the development of our rocket motor manufactured 40mm illumination rounds for business.
The quali cation of the NLAW the two US system prime contractors.
Two rocket motors was completed in the early part further pyrotechnic rounds passed their factory of the year and production increased to its acceptance testing and will begin production steady-state requirement.
$17 million of new orders were also for an 84mm anti-tank weapon was developed received, giving Martin a strong order book in the year and the first batch delivered to the with which to start the new financial year.
In addition, good progress continues to be made to extend our partnership with BAE Systems for the supply of detonators, primers and energetic components for a wide range of their ammunition products.
10 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED Historically, the operating margins from our Countermeasures The naval countermeasures business have been Orders: 155.2 million considerably lower than that usually associated Revenue: 157.5 million Countermeasures with our aircraft countermeasures.
The strong Operating pro t: 45.5 million growth in this area has, therefore, contributed division showed Operating margin: 29% to the small decrease in operating margins compared with 2007.
However, company-funded strong growth Our Countermeasures division showed strong programmes to develop alternative options to the growth during the year, with revenue up 25% existing bought-in rocket motors and electronics year-on-year to 157.5 million.
However, some during the year, sub-systems are underway and should lead to of this growth can be attributed to the strength higher margins over the next few years.
of the dollar during the last quarter and the with revenue growth on a constant exchange rate is much Kilgore also delivered a strong performance, closer to 20%, broadly in line with the growth in with sales up 48% year-on-year to a record up 25% the global market.
Production of the three high volume, conventional MTV ares Chemring Countermeasures, our UK business, ran extremely well throughout, with total had another excellent year, generating production exceeding 1.6 million ares.
This 42.4 million of revenue, which was 37% performance would have been even stronger higher than the previous year.
This growth but for the fact that production volumes had to was driven by a record production of 240,000 be reduced during the latter part of the year, as spectral ares for use by the UK and coalition a consequence of administrative delays in the partners in peacekeeping operations to protect award of follow-on options.
helicopters, transport aircraft and combat aircraft.
Production of conventional are types Three new ares were scheduled to enter also continued at record levels, with growing production in 2008.
A are for C-17 transport interest being shown for our range of 26mm aircraft successfully passed ight quali cation and 50mm ares for use on Russian made and factory acceptance testing FAT during the helicopters and aircraft.
A substantial number year: full production started at the end of the of ares for Typhoon were delivered to the year and will continue throughout the current participating nations and good progress was financial year.
A set of advanced ares for the made on the development of some advanced B-52 also successfully passed its ight test and ares for future quali cation on that platform.
factory acceptance testing but the US Air Force customer requested that a new high altitude test be completed before volume production commenced.
Since this ight test could only be scheduled at the very end of the financial year, the start of production was delayed into 2009.
Similarly, problems with the technical data package on the advanced are for the F-18 aircraft have taken a considerable length of time to resolve and production has been delayed until 2009.
Considerable progress has, however, been made on the advanced ares for the F-22 and F-35 aircraft.
Production of the are set for F-22 increased steadily to 700 units per month, although a problem with the US Government test facility delayed delivery of several batches of ares in the last six weeks of the year.
The construction of the new advanced material Revenue from 130mm naval countermeasures facility at Kilgore, with its highly ef cient fully grew by over 170% year-on-year with major automated production process, was completed deliveries to Denmark, Norway, Spain and Chile.
and fully commissioned during the year.
All Interest in both IR and chaff rounds continues F-22 production has now been transferred to to grow, particularly for countries looking to this new facility.
Successful validation testing operate in crowded littoral operational theatres.
of the ares for the Joint Strike Fighter JSF has been completed and the test results exceed expectations.
The transition to low rate initial production is now expected to occur in 2009.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 11 Another major success for Kilgore in 2008 was The Group the capture of the multi-year award to supply the M212 are, which is a component of the received its current are suite used by the US Army and the US Air Force to protect helicopters from infra-red largest ever guided missiles.
This contract, with a maximum value of $382.9 million, is the largest framework framework contract ever placed with the Group by the US Government.
The first delivery order was for just over 200,000 ares, production of which is contract expected to begin in the latter part of 2009. from the US Government In May 2008, the US Air Force awarded Alloy a $30 million contract for the continued supply of MJU-50 decoys for protection of its transport aircraft.
Production has been ramped up to 33,000 units per month and negotiations for a follow-on contract at higher rate production in 2009 have now started.
The UK Ministry of Defence has placed additional contracts for the BOL IR special material decoys and production has been increased to 40,000 units per month: this level of production should continue throughout 2009.
Finally, Alloy Surfaces had another satisfactory year, generating $128.5 million of revenue, Future prospects which was similar to last year.
Decoy production rose to a record level of over 1.7 million Energetics Pyrotechnics ares but a change of product mix affected and explosive ordnance disposal EOD total revenue.
The US Army awarded Alloy a The global market for pyrotechnics and EOD multi-year contract to supply the M211 are, is estimated to be in excess of 3 billion per which is another component of the current annum and to be growing steadily at over 10% are suite used by the US Army for the per annum.
In 2008, the Group had sales of protection of helicopters.
This contract, with 110.8 million, which represents a 3.5% market a maximum value of $347.9 million, provides share.
The market remains fragmented with a the framework for continued production of large number of small players, many of whom this product over the next five years.
However, are nationally focused and with limited product the US Air Force recently selected a modi ed ranges.
Our recent acquisitions of Richmond, design, called the MJU64, for its future airlift Titan, Scot and NIITEK have considerably protection requirements and has placed an enhanced our capabilities and market initial contract on Alloy for $22.9 million.
This presence particularly in the US.
We continue change in requirement and the reduced demand to believe that the opportunities for further from operations in Iraq, following the apparent growth are excellent.
success of the US and Iraqi forces surge initiative, resulted in a gradual decrease in the There is growing interest in the use of whitemonthly production rate throughout 2008. light and black-light illumination payloads for Production of the MJU64 is now 10,000 units use in peacekeeping operations and for training per month and is likely to stay at this rate for requirements.
Demand for our 81mm mortar the foreseeable future.
rounds remains high but many of our customers are looking for alternative delivery systems.
We are adapting our payloads for 60mm and 120mm mortar rounds and expect demand for the product to grow strongly over the next few years.
12 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Review by the Chief Executive CONTINUED Signalling and screening smokes are used Energetics Munitions Our regularly during operational duties and training The global market for munitions remains exercises, and there is growing interest in comparatively stable at about 10 billion opportunities lower toxicity and multi-spectral performance.
per annum and is not expected to change Demand for our products continues to grow signi cantly over the next three years.
within the US within UK and NATO customers but we are starting to see growing export interest, Simmel continues to maintain its position have been particularly from Middle East and Far East as world leader in naval ammunition and is customers.
There are a number of large looking to substantially expand its order book in signi cantly multi-year contracts that will be placed in South America and the Far East.
2009, which could signi cantly enhance our production volumes over the next few years.
enhanced by A major contract from the Italian MOD for medium calibre ammunition should be awarded Realistic battle eld simulation is considered shortly and there are a number of attractive the acquisition essential for the preparation of troops export opportunities over the next eighteen prior to tours of active duty.
Of particular note is the US 40mm of Martin sophisticated training ranges continues to ammunition programme for the C130 gunships, grow, particularly in the US, with our MECS where Simmel is working in collaboration with Electronics and BES launchers as standard installations.
Over the next five years, the installed launcher base will triple in number and this will lead to a substantial increase in the consumption of both MECS and BES pyrotechnic cartridges.
In October, we announced the acquisition of NIITEK, a leading developer of robot and vehicle-mounted mine and Improvised Explosive Device IED detection systems, incorporating its advanced Ground Penetrating Radar GPR and metal detection technologies.
This acquisition, completed in December, is a critical step in the development of our EOD business and provides a platform to access the 500 million mine detection market.
NIITEK has developed its sensor technology into an operationally proven, vehicle-mounted system and is in the process of delivering $33.8 million worth of orders for thirty systems to the US Army in support of its counter-IED operations.
Future developments Our opportunities within the US have been of the technology include a robot-mounted signi cantly enhanced by the acquisition of sensor which will remove the human operator Martin Electronics.
Full year trading from the from hazardous mine detection activities in automated production of the M228 training both peacekeeping operations and post-con ict grenade fuze will give immediate growth and reconstruction.
the competition for the next multi-year contract has now started.
Full production of the three pyrotechnic 40mm variants will also take place in 2009, and there is growing interest in our medium velocity family for longer range, high accuracy engagements.
Collaboration between Martin Electronics and Simmel will also ensure that any technology transfer into US will be done as ef ciently as possible.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 13 Countermeasures Record order book The market outlook for our expandable countermeasures business continues to be of 585 million positive, although there are signs that the rate of market growth is starting to subside.
Over and prospects for the next three years, we believe that the global market will continue to expand at between 15% 2009 continue to and 20% per annum, driven by strong demand from the US Air Force for advanced decoys be excellent to combat the latest air-to-air missile threats and the continued demand from NATO forces for the protection helicopters and transport aircraft during peacekeeping missions.
Our successful track record in recent competitive procurements, such as the M212 contract, continues to give con dence that we can maintain our 50% market share position.
In Iraq, the enhanced security position has F-22 decoy production will start full sustainment seen a gradual reduction in the operational funding in 2010, when the full complement of consumption of decoys, particularly by the aircraft and the need to establish a war reserve US Army.
Moreover, the Iraqi government has will signi cantly increase annual procurement now reached agreement with the US that all quantities.
Decoys for the F-35 start low rate combat troops will be withdrawn by the end of production in 2009 and production volumes 2011.
However, the Iraqi government is starting to are expected to grow steadily over the next ten procure signi cant improvements in its military years as substantial numbers of aircraft enter equipment, and has recently submitted requests service with the US, UK, Australia and other JSF to the US Government to acquire quite sizeable partner nations.
numbers of helicopters and combat aircraft.
The Australian Government has just awarded In Afghanistan, the total number of US and Chemring Australia a ten year contract, NATO troops assigned to ISAF and Operation worth A$160 million, for the supply of Enduring Freedom has increased to 79,000, countermeasures and pyrotechnics.
As part of and they continue to conduct extensive the arrangement, we will invest A$18 million operations against the insurgents across the in the build of a new state-of-the-art south of the country and on the border with manufacturing facility near Melbourne and Pakistan.
The new US administration has create a research and development centre indicated its intention to bolster the force with for the design of future products.
This new additional troops currently allocated to Iraq.
capability will allow Chemring Australia to bid for The UK Ministry of Defence and other NATO the second source supply for the F-35 decoys, nations also appear to be committing higher and the additional production capacity will be numbers of helicopters and aircraft to the used as part of the Group operations network to mission, which will further increase demand for satisfy our global export are requirements.
Overall, the future outlook remains encouraging A number of important new aircraft will enter and many opportunities exist for growth.
The service over the next ten years.
In Europe, Group has a strong order book, which now the introduction of Typhoon will have a major stands at a record level of 585 million, up 46% impact on demand for decoys, particularly for since January 2008.
This large order book, our BOL IR special material decoys and other our healthy cash ow and strong balance sheet advanced technologies to combat sophisticated make the Board con dent that the prospects for surface-to-air or air-to-air threats.
However, the Group in 2009 continue to be excellent.
the biggest growth is expected to be in the US market, where procurement of advanced ares for new combat aircraft, namely the F-22 and the F-35, is planned.
Dr D J Price CHIEF EXECUTIVE 20 January 2009 Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of 16.5 million 2007: 3.4 million
