Chief Executives Statement In difficult times, it is popular to retreat to the maxim that real estate Even in tough actually substitute the name of any industry you like is a long-term business and should be judged as such.
Well it may be popular, but its also true.
Nevertheless, while we manage for value creation over markets our goal of multiple years, we also need to deal effectively with the short term.
This Annual Report seeks to highlight both perspectives.
activist management, We are in a stressed economic and market environment.
The feed-through to commercial real estate of stress elsewhere is direct and significant to the investment values of our assets, and indirectly adding value to our to near term rental growth prospects.
Nevertheless, British Land has never been in better shape to weather the downturn and emerge with property assets, is growth prospects intact or even enhanced.
The anchor of our business strong, secure cash flow, exceptional balance sheet security is firmly in place.
Our management actions ahead of market declines seeing fullment.
have significantly reduced their impact on the Company.
Even in tough markets our goal of activist management, adding value to our property assets, is seeing fulfilment.
And we have the financial and human capacity to take advantage of opportunities that may present themselves in the latter part of current market distress.
2007 8 Results Underlying earnings per share grew 23% to 53 pence on the back of record underlying pre-tax profits of 284 million.
Our asset values declined by10% which translated to a 20% decline in EPRA Net Assets per Share to1344 pence.
The valuation decline reflected the impact of broader global market declines.
In fact, at the asset level our management actions resulted in a 1.9% outperformance of capital values versus IPD.
And while valuations are constantly moving and not an exact science, the realism of ours 8 The British Land Company PLC Chief Executives Statement was tested by 3.2 billion gross of disposals during the year across right approach.
Short-term pain can be mitigated but not avoided.
every operating sector, on average at or above the preceding And, with significant interest in British Land equity ourselves, your quarters valuation.
There are many competitors who have not so management team are completely aligned with shareholders and tested their valuations.
clearly motivated to deliver enduring value.
The results overall were positively affected by like-for-like rental growth ahead of the market, falling interest costs which are fixed Real estate markets at an average 5.29% rate the lowest in our sector and reduced What is happening in real estate markets represents collateral management administration costs which at 10.9% of net rents damage from re-pricing of risk, liquidity fears and economic and 0.5% of assets are the lowest of comparable companies.
As such, the answer to when and at what level prices settle cannot be accurately given until the broader British Lands strategy and positioning picture clears.
But meanwhile, unlike most industries, the comfort British Lands strategy is clear and designed to weather market of buildings that stand for decades, cash flow from upward only cycles.
We are focused on customer needs and intent on delivering leases averaging nearly 15 years in duration and no refinancing outperformance for shareholders in areas where we have or can requirements, is not to be sniffed at.
We seek to add value at each level We believe that property pricing is now generally much more of the business from an activist approach to: supportable than at the market peaks when we were large scale sector, market and asset selection: sellers and that the worst of yield correction should be behind us.
asset creation and management: and The slowdown of price declines in the last quarter supports this view.
balance sheet management, partnership and deal structuring.
However, markets have often been known to overshoot in both directions and we do expect a further decline in the current year.
In many cases, the fruits of implementing this strategy can be seen And it is still possible that governments dont take sufficient avoiding year by year.
The outperformance of rents and property values action and stabilisation in financial markets is postponed.
The extent versus IPD and the debt structuring highlighted above are examples.
of the feed-through of market turbulence to the real economy and In other cases, strategic decisions are implemented whose effect thereby to our customers is now an important risk factor.
may be seen over multiple years, not for some years or as avoidance of So we have our tin hats on and are busy toiling in the trenches, a negative.
An example, apposite to current times, is financial gearing.
both to further strengthen our defences and to lay the ground for Propertys predictable cash flows and asset-backing lend appropriate offensive when the opportunity arises.
themselves to gearing which is an essential tool to achieve There is plenty of upside to aim for.
Our management efforts can competitive returns on equity for public markets.
Across cycles, produce outperformance, our balance sheet leverages that result property returns rental yield plus rental growth exceed the cost with security, we have capacity to take on new challenges if cheap, of debt, and so gearing clearly boosts returns.
However in the our customers and locations will give us long-term growth and last occasional down market last one for property was early 1990s but far from least, our stock price which currently exaggerates gloom gearing works negatively, amplifying asset value reductions despite can just as easily provide outperformance as gloom recedes.
Correctly, we saw markets as expensive and brought gearing down from a peak 59% debt assets in 2005 to 41% Our people in June 2007 incidentally its lowest level since 1995 before market These times are punishing on our people, working hard in unforgiving declines set in.
However that decision represents partial avoidance markets.
We have continued our determined efforts to renew of a negative, and the residual gearing still amplifies our Net Asset management and to engrain an activist, performance culture.
In decline, though not by as much as it boosted Net Assets in prior short to ask more and get more from our people.
My thanks go to all years and will again in the future.
of them for rising to the challenge and for their work, past and future.
Importantly, contracted leases that are the longest, vacancy rates among the lowest, fixed interest costs and debt maturities the furthest out in our sector are all essential complements to gearing, ensuring resilience in the face of market cyclicality the benefits of which are crystal clear in the current stressed environment.
A similar example of strategy in action is the reduction in the weighting of Offices in our portfolio from 50% in 2002 the end of the last up-cycle for Offices to 41% currently, achieved through 2.7 billion of asset sales 2005-8.
In the long-run we believe that the Stephen Hester industries powering London office occupation will grow faster than Chief Executive others.
Coupled with a steeply rising replacement cost of buildings 19 May 2008 and increased density in London, its not a sector to ignore.
But at this moment in time, the cycle that boosted London office valuations over 20% in the 24 months to September 2007 will go backwards by an amount.
So, despite market turmoil and uncertainty, the activist strategy, built on enduring fundamentals of prime property, customer focus, predictable cash flows and careful risk management, remains the The British Land Company PLC 9 Square Deal At Broadgate, a mini-train regularly plies between office buildings to collect waste materials for recycling.
This collaborative effort delivers significant savings.
