Chief Executives Review Our focus going forward is to maximise income growth, reduce our indebtedness and improve our financial exibility to maximise shareholder value.
Having only been appointed As a consequence of market on site during the first half as Chief Executive on conditions, the volume of of 2008.
If developments 2 March 2009, I am lettings decreased to around are excluded the underlying pleased to have this early 750,000 sq ft from void rate was 10.6%.
If the opportunity to report to you 1.15m sq ft in 2007 but it headline void of 17.3% on Brixtons performance produced the same amount is adjusted to take into during 2008 and also to of annualised income account those insolvencies outline our future strategy.
7.1m as the previous where the space involved Despite the turmoil in the year and reected a net had not yet been returned financial and capital markets increase in annualised by the end of 2008, the Brixton had a good income of 2.2m.
Most of headline void would be operational 2008.
However, the activity was focused on 19.9% by income and we are acutely aware of the our completed development the underlying void rate challenges that we face.
programme, whilst the of 10.6% would be 13.5%.
leasing of second hand This adjustment for In 2008 we created 3.6m space slowed.
insolvencies includes that worth of net new income, of our third largest tenant, on an annualised basis, The importance of Entertainment UK, although from new lettings, rent continuing to improve and the rent is currently being reviews and lease renewals strengthen our relationships paid by the administrators.
which compares with 1.2m with our customers was for 2007 and is the highest again demonstrated in 2008 One of the key objectives gure we have achieved and we completed several for 2009 is to increase our in any of the last five years.
significant lettings to key income and occupancy existing customers including levels by letting vacant We have exceeded the the Metropolitan Police, property which had a valuers ERVs Estimated The Royal Mail and rental value of 22m at Rental Values on the rents Jack Wills.
the end of 2008. achieved on our lettings, rent reviews and lease Our headline void at Due to the global market renewals by 3.2% 3.7% December 2008 fell to turmoil, the reduction in from lettings alone.
This 17.3% from 18.7% at the supply of finance and compares with an average June 2008.
This was up weakening economic enhancement over valuers from 15.4% at the end of conditions there have been estimates of 3.7% pa from 2007 due to the completion widespread declines in UK our portfolio over the last of our three remaining commercial property values five years.
uk the fourth quarter of 2008 As we face the reality Our focus going forward and it is widely expected of a signicantly weaker is to maximise income that there will be further property market, our growth, reduce our reductions in commercial immediate priority is to indebtedness and improve property values in the UK continue to actively pursue our financial exibility to during 2009.
This has a range of options to maximise shareholder value.
already been evidenced improve our financial With a combination of our through declines in capital exibility and we will report quality portfolio in prime values and the IPD Monthly further details as soon as strategic locations, our All Property Index of -3.0% is appropriate.
The valuation management capability process continues to be We are seeking to dispose and our customer focus conducted against a of assets where we believe we believe we are ready background of limited management initiatives have and able to meet the transactional evidence been substantially continuing challenges particularly in the prime completed or where they of the economy in 2009 London industrial markets.
no longer meet our strategic and beyond.
We are also It is anticipated that more considering creating new investments will be traded joint ventures to release this year: particularly capital to enable us between distressed, rather to strengthen our than willing, sellers and balance sheet.
opportunist well funded Peter Dawson purchasers which will In our Interim Management Chief Executive provide more evidence of Statement in November realisable prices.
However, 2008 we outlined our these transactions are likely covenants relating to to be below current balance our borrowings.
The December 2008 we were transactional transparency in full compliance with these should be welcomed and covenants further details may help improve liquidity of which are contained in the sector.
