Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A PROVEN STRATEGY Chloride is uniquely positioned as a focused provider of high-quality secure power solutions.
We have a proven strategy to build sustainable competitive advantage and accelerate growth through: focusing on geographies and market sectors which exhibit long-term growth characteristics: investing in people, technology and services to align our capabilities closely with our chosen geographic markets and sectors: and continual improvement of our robust and cash-generative business model.
Through the consistent execution of our SUSTAINABLE GROWTH MARKETS strategy we are market leaders in our largest In 2007 the world market for UPS products market, Western Europe.
We were proud grew for the fifth year in succession.
Frost & to be named European UPS Company of Sullivan estimated market growth of 13% the Year 2007 by the leading independent for 2007, and a compound annual growth rate market research company Frost & Sullivan, of 8.6% through to 2011 an increase in in recognition of the exceptional growth market size of nearly $3 billion over the period.
in all areas of our European business.
Chlorides secure power solutions are closely aligned to high-growth sectors of the market, such as IT services including data centres, oil & gas, energy and transportation where capital investment in infrastructure is accelerating.
The market drivers have proved enduring secure electrical power is an essential requirement for global businesses and public By applying this strategic framework to sector organisations as they seek to protect WORLD UPS MARKET REVENUE FORECAST developing international markets and sectors their critical applications from the damaging we are winning business and building effects of degrading power quality.
The failure 7.2% platforms for further growth in dynamic to improve power infrastructures to match 8.4% 8.6% markets across the world.
the rate of growth in many economies 8.8% CAGR 9.8% underpins the prospects for long-term 12.9% 2007-2011 growth in our industry.
07 08 09 10 11 Source: Frost & Sullivan 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FOCUSING ON HIGH GROWTH SECTORS OIL & GAS AND ENERGY Rising prices and demand for energy TRANSPORT are driving growth in this sector.
Chloride solutions were selected Chloride won orders worldwide, for major airport projects in Mexico, including many from the Middle East.
Jordan, Abu Dhabi and Dubai.
IT SERVICES DATA CENTRES Chlorides large systems and services E-shelter selected Chloride for its are tailored to the needs of data Frankfurt data centre the largest centres and other critical process in Europe.
applications, enabling us to win significant orders such as the Global Switch data centre in Singapore.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 9 Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DEVELOPING SOLUTIONS CAPABILITY PEOPLE SERVICES The Chloride Academy completed Technical service and support is an its first year delivering residential essential part of our offering, enabling and distance learning courses to us to win contracts with a broad scope employees, improving our skills of products and services such as the base and spreading best practice order from the Driver and Vehicle throughout the Group.
NET Our products are continually updated, Our industry-leading remote reducing footprint and improving diagnostic system has been extended energy efficiency.
The new R&D to cover a range of critical power centre in Pune, India gives us protection equipment, including access to a further 100 technical standby generators.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 A PROVEN STRATEGY DEVELOPING OUR SOLUTIONS OFFERING PRODUCTS INCREASING SERVICE SALESMILLION Product sales underpin the growth in services, MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE and our product range is continually refreshed At the end of the year we streamlined the to anticipate market requirements, reduce 27% 84.8 management structure to combine sales footprint and improve energy efficiency.
Sales 13% and service and operations for both standard were up 33% 28% organic at 182.8 million.
We also consolidated In 2007 2008, 73% of product sales came from the R&D, production, sales and service and products introduced in the previous three years.
This move will We have a healthy pipeline of new products and more effectively leverage our sales and service anticipate product innovation continuing to be network, our technology and operational an important driver of our growth in the current capability to extend best practice in solutions and future years.
This step will be important in driving sales growth and We introduced static transfer switches to 05 06 07 08 cost efficiencies as we move forward.
improve our tier 4 data centre capabilities, 90-NET products for the US market and, SERVICES in conjunction with DB Power, a new range Our success is based on our ability to provide of Active lters for applications requiring CONSISTENT INCREASE IN industry-leading products and services, enhanced harmonic reduction.
NET CONNECTIONS tailored to the requirements of our global blue-chip customers.
We are continually Improvement in energy efficiency is a key 14% improving our services offering, expanding objective in new product designs, such as the 11% 12% our international scope and extending range of Power Lan models introduced during 10% our capabilities in services for multi-vendor the year.
Chloride is the only UPS company UPS and other critical electronic equipment.
to participate in the EU Code of Conduct LIFE.
net, our industry-leading remote to improve end-use energy efficiency in AC diagnostic software is an important part uninterruptible power supplies.
We also seek of our solutions offering.
We again made to reduce energy wastage in the testing of improvements to LIFE.
net, enhancing the large systems, through an innovative process 14% system to monitor a range of non-UPS in use at our large systems test facility in equipment, and introducing secure internet Bologna, Italy where the energy used in 05 06 07 08 communications between the monitoring the test process is recovered and recycled, stations and the installed base.
resulting in minimum energy wastage.
Our services are closely aligned to the We added to our software development demands of large system applications, capabilities by setting up an additional R&D which drive the growth in services, generate centre in Pune, India.
Operated by DB Power, recurring high-margin service revenues and this state-of-the-art facility gives us access to give us visibility of future earnings.
over 100 technology and software engineers and is already making a significant contribution to Revenue from services was up 26% our product development programme, especially to 84.8 million, 19% organic, and now the development of the next generation accounts for 32% of total sales.
Our service of control modules, which will keep our order book is 9.3 million ahead of last year.
technology at the forefront for large systems.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 11 Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A PROVEN STRATEGY We completed a joint venture agreement INTERNATIONAL MARKETS with Phoenixtec Power Company, Taiwan, to develop a high-quality, low-cost WESTERN EUROPE manufacturing facility for large systems in This region now accounts for 63% of Group Shenzhen China.
The venture is scheduled sales, and we hold market leadership positions to reach full production in the first half of 2009, in the UK, Italy, Spain and Germany.
Overall and is expected to give us the benefit of lower sales from Western Europe grew by 30% transfer prices, as well as a 50% share of the with good performances in: companys profits and a local source of supply for our Asian markets.
the UK, where we are particularly strong in data centres and the IT services sector.
We also have access to low-cost, high-quality We opened a custom-built facility in manufacturing facilities in DB Power, giving Bedford with state-of-the-art training further scope to reduce product costs.
facilities for staff and customers, and we extended our ability to address the on and CHLORIDE ACADEMY offshore oil & gas and energy sectors with Developing our knowledge base and training the acquisition of Masterpower Electronics our staff to the highest industry standards is Limited in March 2007.
Masterpower which fundamental to our solutions approach.
The is based in Aberdeen, performed well Chloride Academy educates students through meeting our expectations for the year: a combination of distance learning, practical and residential courses to enhance skills and Spain, where the acquisition of Cener spread best practice to the highest industry in 2006 has enhanced our large systems standards throughout the Group.
The Academy and service capabilities, increased our has dedicated staff to uphold the standard of installed base and enabled us to build on training, and utilises the wealth of expertise in relationships with important customers the Company to develop course programmes such as the El Corte Ingles chain of aligned to business objectives.
The integration with Chloride Spain was successfully completed The Academy has recently celebrated its first during the year, giving a unied approach anniversary and in its first year has increased to the market.
Spain is also an excellent the number of courses available.
Accredited market for Chlorides industrial systems, training centres have been established at Group where we have experienced significant facilities in Germany, Spain, the UK, Australia growth in sales for industrial applications and in our new facility in Singapore.
In the first during the year: year of operation 130 employees successfully completed 185 Academy courses, with further Italy, where our sales and service expansion planned in the current year.
business continues to develop long-standing relationships with its customers in IT services, manufacturing, telecoms, and healthcare: 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 INVESTING IN EUROPE & CENTRAL ASIA SPAIN UK We now have an integrated approach Masterpower Electronics expands to the Spanish market, where we Chlorides capabilities in the UK have important customers such oil & gas and energy market, with as the El Corte Ingls chain of blue-chip customers such as BPs, department stores.
RUSSIA TURKEY The investment in Chloride Rus Chloride is market leader inTurkey, increases our presence in Russia, and has established new operations where we already have important in the neighbouring territories of financial services customers.
Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, where the oil, gas and energy sectors are developing rapidly.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 13 Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW EXPANDING IN ASIA PACIFIC CHINA The Chinese joint venture with AUSTRALIA Phoenixtec Power Company is an Chloride Australia is increasing its important step in our supply chain business with important customers, management, giving us access to such as Nextgen Networks, the low-cost, high-quality manufacturing.
SINGAPORE INDIA The acquisition of Ascor enabled The investment in DB Power us to create our Chloride SE Asia Electronics gives us access to the operation, with improved technical buoyant Indian market and provides service and support, and enhanced an excellent technical support network training facilities in the region.
for our international and domstic customers such as Dell, IBM, Reliance Industries andTata Group.
14 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 A PROVEN STRATEGY Germany, where we made good progress, where we focus our sales approach on large particularly in IT services with prestigious multi-national companies.
We secured projects from blue-chip customers such as important contracts from blue-chip customers E-Shelter, who selected Chloride to provide such as Intel and Dow Corning as well as a the power protection for their data centre data centre project for the Beijing Olympics.
in Frankfurt the largest in Europe: The strategic partnership with DB Power France, where our industrial systems Electronics, India continues to prove a major business based in Lyon expanded sales success, giving us access to blue-chip in the growing oil & gas and energy sectors customers in a number of sectors including in Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacic.
Microsoft, Dell and IBM in IT services, HSBC, This business had an excellent year, Standard Chartered and Barclays in financial and is well-placed to benefit from services, Tata and Reliance Industries in developments in this sector, including energy and oil & gas, and Suzuki Textiles in prospects in renewable and nuclear manufacturing.
During the year we increased applications.
We also invested in our sales our stake in DB Power to 32% a key and service network, acquiring AST Services investment to expand our position in the Electronique SARL ASTE to improve our dynamic Indian marketplace.
multi-vendor service capacity: and We acquired Ascor Power Systems Pte Sweden, where we took a minority stake Limited, Singapore early in the year, and in Eltek UPS, which allows us to launch immediately created a state-of-the-art service the Chloride brand in Scandinavia, with support and training centre there to reinforce the opportunity for Chloride to acquire our high-quality technical, sales and service the business by 2010. capability in the region.
EASTERN EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA At the year end we opened a Chloride Sales in this region increased by 24% with representative ofce in Vietnam as the good performance from our businesses in foundation for building our presence in this Turkey and Poland.
We recently established high potential new market.
new businesses in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, building up our capabilities to address the MIDDLE EAST` significant potential in the oil & gas and We achieved exceptional growth in the Middle energy sectors.
East with sales up 78%, from many projects in energy and oil & gas, IT services and in the In February we announced the creation transport sector from airport projects including of Chloride Rus a joint venture with our those in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Jordan.
This extends our secure power solutions capabilities and AMERICAS improves access to opportunities in the Overall performance in the Americas was Russian market.
disappointing, with sales up by only 4%, due largely to our small products and power ASIA PACIFIC conditioning business in the USA, where sales Sales in Asia Pacic were up 50%.
Excellent were down by 4% up 2% in local currency.
performance was achieved in Australia, where Our large systems business in the USA grew our business won a number of excellent by 7% 13% in local currency and we made product and service orders and in China, good progress in Brazil and Mexico.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 15 Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A PROVEN STRATEGY MARKET SECTORS OTHER EUROPEAN DATA CENTRE MARKET FORECAST We achieved good growth in a number DATA CENTRES AND OTHER of other sectors, including leisure where, IT INFRASTRUCTURE for example, we have supplied to the Beijing 10.7% 12.5% In 2007 2008 we increased sales by 51%, Olympics, manufacturing with successes 11.0% CAGR as the increasing requirement for data across the world, and medical particularly 13.2% 2007-2011 processing and storage facilities powered with hospitals and with equipment 14.4% growth in this sector.
14.2% acknowledged leader in critical power services for data centres in Europe, where the market BUILDING MARKET SHARE is forecast to grow by a CAGR of 12.5% Chlorides pace of growth again outstripped through to 2011.
Our expertise and reputation the growth of the market, with sales up 31% in Europe was an important competitive 25% organic at 267.6 million, set against advantage in winning important orders for the Frost & Sullivan market growth forecast 07 08 09 10 11 Source: Frost & Sullivan data centres in Asia Pacic, particularly India of 13%.
Product sales were up 33% 28% organic SALES IN MARKET SECTORS OIL & GAS AND ENERGY at 182.8 million and services, which form an Sales grew by 105%.
High energy prices important part of our total solutions approach, and rising demand are driving investment were up 26% 19% organic at 84.8 million.
Service32% Oil, gas and in upstream and downstream infrastructure energy17% projects, especially in the Middle East and Orders were also strong well ahead of IT services8% Asia Pacic.
Chlorides industrial systems are sales and last year.
We nished the year with Other8% engineered to withstand the most challenging a record order book for products and services Manufacturing7% of climatic conditions and hostile electrical up 21 million to 102.4 million.
This increase Telecoms7% environments, making them ideally suited was evenly spread across all territories Financial services7% to applications in this high-growth sector.
for both products and services, providing Retail6% The qualication of our products for nuclear a rm foundation for further growth in the Government4% applications means we are well positioned current year.
Transport4% for the re-emergence of nuclear power generation in Europe and other parts of the world.
CONSISTENT SALES GROWTH The development of renewable energy AHEAD OF THE MARKET generation has also presented opportunities for Chlorides technologies and services, and 31% MARKET we look to win further business in renewables 13% as the sector gathers momentum.
18% 14% 13% 13% 12% 11% CHLORIDE 8% 31% 05 06 07 08 Market Chloride 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 SUCCEEDING WIDE-RANGING SUPPLIER OF CHOICE Chloride is a supplier of choice MARKET SECTORS to blue-chip customers worldwide.
We operate in many market sectors, We are the largest power protection including the growing renewable supplier to Canary Wharf.
GROWTH MARKETS PROVEN STRATEGY We are growing in geographic markets Chloride is successfully executing where our total solutions offer real its strategy for growth.
In China we are supplying to the Beijing Olympics.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 17 Section 2: Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DELIVERING FOCUSING DEVELOPING INVESTING EXPANDING SUCCEEDING DELIVERING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 A PROVEN STRATEGY ROBUST BUSINESS MODEL By focusing on the consistent execution CONSISTENT INCREASES IN The operating margin increased by 2 points of our strategy, we have built strong positions OPERATING MARGIN to 13.5%, the sixth successive year of in high-growth international markets and improvement, as we leveraged the sales continually improved our technology and 13.5% 13.5% and service network to increase revenue, services to meet the broad scope of our 11.5% and secured cost reductions from the drive for customers requirements.
These actions place 9.8% business efficiencies.
This margin improvement the Company in a leading position to benefit was achieved despite the negative impact from attractive opportunities in the worlds 7.4% of commodity cost increases.
We anticipate major and emerging economies.
further opportunities to improve the operating margin in the future.
We entered the new financial year with a record order book and a clear plan to meet 2pts Operating cash conversion was 83%, after the our growth objective.
This gives us confidence additional working capital required to support in the outlook for the coming year and beyond.
05 06 07 08 the growth of the business, demonstrating We are well placed to build further momentum the quality of earnings and the cash-generative for the benefit of our shareholders, customers nature of our business model.
and our people in the longer term.
SALES PER EMPLOYEE PEOPLE Keith Hodgkinson Chloride has some of the most experienced people in our industry, generating over 13% 170 170,000 of sales per employee.
We place a 5% 14% THOUSAND high priority on nurturing talent and providing 8% career opportunities to enable employees to develop their skills and provide excellent service to customers.
I would like to thank my colleagues throughout the Group for their commitment and support during my period as Chief Executive.
I hand over to Tim Cobbold 13% confident that we have the right people and leadership for continued success.
05 06 07 08 OUTSTANDING PROSPECTS Chloride operates in worldwide markets with long-term underlying growth characteristics, driven by our customers need for secure electrical power to protect their mission-critical applications from inadequate and unreliable power supplies.
