Report of the Directors Performance overview continued 7 Read more about why we launched the fund, and which companies have invested in the fund, on page 47.
Find out how our Retail Portfolio managed to outperform IPD on pages 25-33 and read about the Key performance indicators London Portfolios outperformance on pages 34-43.
Objective Metric Progress Sustained real growth in adjusted earnings per Normalised adjusted earnings per share growth To create sustainable long-term share to be at least 3% per annum over rolling over three years to 31 March 2008 exceeded returns for shareholders three-year periods RPI by 7.7% per annum Annual revenue pro t to exceed budget target Achieved for this financial year IPD outperformance in each core sector Outperformed IPD on an overall portfolio To maximise the returns from and on an overall portfolio basis basis by 6.5% the investment portfolio Outperformed IPD sector benchmarks by 4.7% for our London Portfolio and by 4.8% for our Retail Portfolio Sell 1.5bn of investment properties Sold 1.5bn of investment properties To manage our balance sheet effectively Establish PPP fund to raise 0.80bn of capital PPP fund successfully launched, raising 0.81bn of capital 47.3m of development lettings to be completed 58.5m of development lettings achieved To complete and let our Developments to be completed on budget Development schemes completed on budget development programme and on time and on time, subject to one project being three weeks delayed.
Projects at Princesshay, Exeter: Willow Place, Corby: Christs Lane, Cambridge: One Wood Street, EC2: Bankside 2&3, SE1: and New Street Square, EC4 completed.
Secure 150m of PPP contracts through Secured more than 300m of PPP contracts To grow our Trillium business secondary market acquisitions through secondary market acquisitions by winning new contracts Overall customer satisfaction in Retail Targets exceeded for both shopping centres Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction and London businesses to exceed targets and London of ces 90% satisfaction ratings from our largest Achieved 94% satisfaction rating from our outsourcing client largest outsourcing client Employee engagement to exceed Exceeded with grand mean score of 3.03 Attract, develop, retain and motivate ETS industry benchmark classi ed as excellent by our external survey high-performance teams and individuals provider compared to benchmark gure of 2.99 See how we fide ne and mitigate our property development risks on page 22 and 23 and see a financial summary of our We discuss our approach development pipeline on page 126. to employee engagement on page 21.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 8 Our Chairmans message This year we saw a correction in the property market, turbulence in the financial markets and uncertainty in the wider economy.
Our Chairman, Paul Myners, assesses our response and discusses what changing conditions mean for the Company.
Paul Myners Land Securities is a well-managed company that thrived during an Successful companies r espond extended run of good market conditions.
This year there was a market early to change.
Property values have re ected changes in interest rates and we took this year demonstrate risk premia margins.
Our sector does not operate in isolation from the strength.
We will continue to credit market and the wider economy.
be decisive and to make the We anticipated these changing conditions and have been preparing the most of our skills and Company accordingly.
We limited acquisitions, accelerated sales, reduced competitive advantages in the our exposure to development risk and planned our funding conservatively.
We keep an old fashioned focus on costs, spending only when necessary and productive.
Our three businesses are in good shape as a result.
Successful companies respond early to change.
The actions we took this year demonstrate strength.
We will continue to be decisive and to make the most of our skills and competitive advantages in the current demanding conditions.
Land Securities has a long and proud history of managing itself well through a range of market conditions.
We always look to move forward, even when progress demands bold decisions.
Back in the 1950s, under the leadership of Harold Samuel, we entered into the property sectors first convertible debenture agreement.
This was criticised by some at the time but soon became common practice.
In the early 1970s we went against the prevailing trend in the sector and limited our borrowing, a decision that enabled us to bounce back from the property crash of 1974.
Looking at the Company in the early 1990s, we can see parallels with today.
Chairman Peter Hunt wrote at the time: The fundamental principles on which Land Securities has been built are helping us through the most dif cult period for the property industry that I can remember.
Those principles still hold true.
Once again we are being bold with our plans for demerger.
Our diversi ed business model has served us well but we believe specialisation will become increasingly appealing.
