Report of the Directors Chief Executives report continued 11 After a long run of good market conditions the property sector experienced a setback this year, with less Our timing and execution of development has been liquidity in the capital markets and some caution on likely demand from occupiers.
We anticipated changing conditions, and timed this in ection point some time ago, and started preparations for changed market dynamics, our portfolio our future level of space with expected levels of demand.
and our performance have not been immune to the general market trends.
Our key challenge this year was to keep evolving our businesses so they were t to compete and win in the current demanding conditions, while laying the foundations for future growth.
Our strategy delivered a strong relative performance, with our portfolio outperforming the IPD Quarterly Universe by 6.5% in Chart 3 relative terms.
This outperformance represents some 800m of value preservation for our shareholders.
Timing and execution I believe the key to our performance this year can be summed up in two words timing and execution.
We made our last major retail acquisition in February 2006, while this year we sold 835m of retail assets and achieved prices on average 3.1% above valuation.
900 As a result we have a high quality retail portfolio well suited to our customers needs and we have the resources required to make acquisitions when the right opportunities appear.
In London we have achieved 750 similar success, with 716m of sales made at 8.2% above average valuation, providing resources to address future opportunities.
600 Our development programme was equally well timed and executed.
This year we secured our highest 2 ever level of development completions at 242,200m, and at year end these were 94% let.
In London we 450 had expected employment growth in the financial services sector to be weaker, so we will be completing 2 just 25,500m of of ce developments over the next two financial years, keeping our supply of high quality 300 space in line with expected levels of demand.
150 Three market leaders within one company Our three businesses performed well throughout the year and demonstrated their market 0 leadership credentials.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In London we achieved the highest levels of of ce development lettings of any company or organisation this year.
This included the leasing of Bankside 2&3, SE1 to Royal Bank of Scotland the second largest Retail Portfolio development completions Retail Portfolio development programme letting of the year in the sector.
In July we won planning consent from the Secretary of State for Retail Portfolio development pipeline 20 Fenchurch Street.
This followed a high pro le media debate and public inquiry, and once again London Portfolio development completions we showed that taking a project of this scale from vision to approval requires both imagination and London Portfolio development programme London Portfolio development pipeline determination a rare blend.
Our Retail business capped a strong year with the completion and successful letting of Princesshay in Exeter.
I think this is one of the nest developments in our history and deserved its British Council of Shopping Centres Supreme Gold Award the third year in a row a Land Securities development has won this accolade.
I am also pleased by the launch and early progress of The Harvest Partnership, our joint venture with Sainsburys.
Table 4 Trillium produced another year of strong growth.
Having integrated the Secondary Market Infrastructure Total property returns % Fund business acquired in February 2007, we launched our PPP fund, Trillium Investment Partners, this year Land Relative Year to 31 03 08 Securities IPD return and despite less liquidity and increasing anxiety in the market achieved a successful close of the fund Total portfolio 3.2 9.1 6.5 in March 2008.
Trillium Investment Partners has been established with an initial capital of 1.136bn, of which half is debt nanced and half equity.
The quality of the investors in the fund speaks volumes for Source: IPD Trilliums reputation, while our success in winning the Kent Building Schools for the Future contract con rms both the strength of our offer and the scale of the opportunities ahead.
Meeting changing needs and expectations Our businesses are increasingly adept at understanding and responding to our customers changing needs and expectations.
This often requires us to make key decisions early, from adjusting the volume and type of space we are developing to incorporating innovative forms of public space into our projects.
Sustainability is of growing importance to many people and is one area where we have sought to anticipate change and act early.
For a decade we have focused on environmental issues and this was recognised during the year when sustainablebusiness.
com named us one of the Worlds Top 20 Sustainable Stocks, with Land Securities the only UK company included.
I am also pleased that the Dow Jones Land Securities Annual Report 2008 CAMBRIDGE CORBY EXETER QUEEN WOOD BANKSIDE ANNES NEW ST SQ STREET 2&3 GATE BRISTOL LIVINGSTON DASH- 10 EASTBOURNE TERRACE WOOD CARDIFF 30 EASTBOURNE TERRACE LEEDS TRINITY QUARTER ONE NEW CHANGE PARK HOUSE ARUNDEL SELBORNE 20 FENCHURCH STREET GREAT COURT HOUSE 12 Chief Executives report continued Sustainability Index named us a global leader in both the real estate and finance sectors.
Chart 5 Acting responsibly means addressing some big challenges, such as working to reuse or recycle at least Property yield pricing relative to gilt yields % 80% of the demolition waste created by a new development, or enabling customers to improve the energy 2007 2008 performance of a building.
But its about smaller things too, like offering our employees up to two days paid leave so they can help local community organisations.
In our experience, both big and small acts help to make us a better business.
6 The value of REIT status We converted to REIT status on 1 January 2007 and so this year we enjoyed exemption from corporation 4 tax on qualifying rental income and on gains from investment property sales.
Although the conversion has coincided with the more challenging market conditions I outlined earlier, our change in status has been and continues to be advantageous for shareholders.
First, we now pay less 2.16 2 1.94 1.81 1.64 tax, which has increased earnings per share.
Second, the representation of international shareholders on 1.26 our register has increased from 23% to 37% since March 2005 and this suggests REIT status has attracted 0.69 0.53 0.42 0.35 0.18 0.14 -0.09 more international capital and potentially wider demand for shares a clear bene t. 0 AA M JJSONDFJ M Property equivalent yield Plans for demerger 10-year gilt yield Since 2004 we have structured the Company around three large and distinct business divisions.
The Board Difference between above yields believes there is now potential to create greater value for shareholders by separating these businesses.
Source: IPD In our Interim Report in November 2007 we con rmed our intention to demerge the Group into three separately quoted entities and we set out our rationale for doing so.
This is not a reaction to short-term market trends.
A demerger has been under careful consideration for some time and, as with our conversion to REIT status, the Boards proposal is made with long-term value creation in mind.
In the past few years we have run our three businesses with a high degree of autonomy and the demerger process is a natural step in our Companys evolution.
80% I am delighted to report that our planning for the demerger did not impact the activity levels or performance of the Company nor did it affect the support we provide to customers.
Indeed, our satisfaction We are working to reuse or recycle at least 80% of our rating with our largest customer, the Department for Work and Pensions, was the highest ever at 94%, demolition waste on development projects.
up three percentage points on 2006.
Throughout the year the Non-executive Directors have provided invaluable guidance to the senior management team.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their support.
Outlook The market is certainly demanding but we have performed well in relative terms this year.
As a result, we are well placed in our London and Retail property investment businesses, with moderate gearing levels, a well-timed development programme and strong portfolios well matched to occupiers needs.
Trillium is in excellent health with stable long-term cash ows and a robust pipeline of new opportunities across a number of dynamic sectors.
I am con dent our businesses have the strength and scale to thrive.
How occupiers respond to current economic conditions will prove key over the next 12 months.
We are alive to the challenges involved and we will concentrate on competing hard in this environment while preparing for the next set of opportunities.
I have long believed the companies that thrive in our industry do so because they maintain a clear long-term view of their markets and have the con dence to evolve their businesses well ahead of changing conditions this is the approach Land Securities will continue to take.
Bankside 2&3, London We increased the momentum of regeneration with the successful completion of Bankside 2&3, now let to RBS.
Francis Salway Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors 13 The bene ts of demerger In November 2007 we announced our intention to demerge into three separate companies.
Since then we have made progress on the extensive preparatory work required to make this happen.
The Board will make the final decision on the implementation of our plan when market conditions are favourable and when it receives the mandate to do so from shareholders.
Here we discuss the rationale for demerger.
Why we are considering demerger now As a property company we set out to take key investment decisions from a position of strength.
We restructured to create Retail, London and Outsourcing now Trillium in 2004 because it was right for the Company.
The three businesses have grown and now have the size and strength to stand alone.
The demerger plan recognises that these businesses have different financial characteristics, and that specialisation will help each business to raise capital.
We also believe that greater recognition will be given to major successes achieved within a specialised business, rather than within a more broadly based Group.
The history of the demerger process The businesses will be of the size The potential bene ts of demerger were first raised within the Company in autumn 2005 following the and strength to maintain market successful creation of the three business units in 2004.
The review process started long before current market leading positions conditions were evident and we believe demerger will be delivering value for shareholders when the current market conditions are regarded as history.
The Board has a strong track record on bold decisions.
In recent years we acquired Trillium, exited the industrial Retail Portfolio and London Portfolio sector through the property swap with SEGRO and boosted our development pipeline ahead of the current cycle.
should each be of a size to be in the These decisive actions have proved successful.
Demerger is the latest bold decision in the ongoing evolution of FTSE100 while Trillium should the Company.
be of a size to be in the FTSE250 Businesses bene t from specialisation Historic data shows that in the UK and US specialist companies have produced higher shareholder returns over There will be a vote by shareholders the last 10 years.
We believe a balance sheet tailored to the respective sector cycles has the potential to improve before any decision is nalised return on shareholders equity by a material amount.
With a bespoke financial structure our London and Retail portfolios could be valued more easily and could raise capital more easily.
We believe they will also be better positioned to access new ows of capital into the global listed property sector.
No date con rmed for demerger Our progress so far Initial preparatory work for demerger is well advanced, and this includes the appointment of the leadership teams for each business.
In terms of Chief Executives, Francis Salway will run the Retail business, Mike Hussey will continue to run London and Ian Ellis will continue to run Trillium.
The business leaders: Sir Christopher Bland has been appointed Chairman of Trillium in the run up to its demerger and subsequently.
Retail Portfolio His recent roles include Chairman of BT and Chairman of the Board of Governors at the BBC.
Rick Haythornthwaite has been appointed as Chairman of the Retail business following demerger.
He is Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman currently Chairman of Mastercard Inc, Chairman of the Risk and Regulation Advisory Council and partner at Francis Salway CEO Star Capital Partners Ltd. His previous roles include Chief Executive of Blue Circle Industries and Invensys and Non-executive Director of ICI.
Paul Myners will assume the role of Chairman of the London business at demerger.
London Portfolio The cost of demerger Paul Myners Chairman There will be the additional cost of running three corporate entities, including three boards, and our estimate is Mike Hussey CEO that this will be around 15m per annum, with the businesses able to manage overall costs down once separated.
In addition, the cost of finance for the three businesses is expected to increase slightly, but we believe the credit quality of the three individual portfolios will keep this increase to moderate levels.
There will also be the Trillium one-off costs of undertaking the transaction including legal, accountancy and adviser fees and we expect Sir Christopher Bland Chairman these to be in line with similar transactions.
Ian Ellis CEO While we will keep costs under close scrutiny throughout the process, we believe the long-term bene ts for shareholders will signi cantly outweigh the initial costs of demerger.
A clear step forward Demerger represents a clear step forward for this Company and is in keeping with our heritage of taking key decisions early.
In our view, the independent London and Retail businesses will along with Trillium continue to lead their markets, with their proven management teams supported by tailored financial structures.
