CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We continue to build on the strength of our brand as the leading provider of space to small and medium-sized businesses across London.
In this huge, growing and fragmented marketplace we are by far the biggest supplier of space to small businesses with 4,500 customers in a marketplace of over 180,000 SMEs there remains a significant growth opportunity.
This year has seen double-digit increases in both rent roll and rental income.
We have achieved this from growth in rental pricing levels and the successful take-up of space at refurbishments.
As always, the key has been to ensure that we do not compromise occupancy levels as we put through price increases.
Occupancy levels have in fact improved slightly despite the level of price increases we have achieved.
Our brand recognition is high with our distinctive signage visible Harry Platt, Chief Executive across London and our website successfully attracting a significant Pictured at Westbourne Studios, W10 proportion of hits from businesses searching for space.
This is underpinned by our reputation as a good landlord providing a high quality of service and an active commitment to sustainability, a key concern for many of our customers.
Our business model opposite Figure 1 Relative IPD performance % is simple, flexible and offers good value with minimal paperwork aspects that are even more attractive to our customers when the Workspace return economic outlook is uncertain.
Indeed, our customers themselves IPD return 35 provide a rich source of referrals and many have grown with us, Difference 30 moving internally as their space needs have evolved.
25 20 The net reduction in the portfolio valuation of 4.6% over the year 15 compares favourably to a fall of 12.5% in total ungeared capital 10 returns reported by IPD Investment Property Databank for the UK property sector as a whole to 31 March 2008.
It highlights the 5 resilience of our business model which has consistently shown 0 returns well ahead of the property sector.
Our record of annual -5 outperformance over the last 10 years is shown in figure 1 left -10 whilst figure 2 shows our percentile ranking on a one, three, five -15 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and 10 year basis.
Even in more difficult economic conditions, we see no change Figure 2 Total return performance vs IPD percentile ranking in the fundamental attractions of our business model, which has consistently delivered superior levels of performance and returns 12 to shareholders.
10 10th 8 8th 7th 6 4 Harry Platt, Chief Executive 2 1st 0 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years Workspace Group PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1-3.
Our business model is simple but in many ways unique, bringing together three key elements: 3.
1 The small business sector in London The demand for space from the occupational market underpins everything we do.
The small-and medium-sized business sector in 2 London is a deep and liquid market which offers strong growth potential The nature of when the economy is doing well, and our estates resilient qualities in a more challenging economic environment.
A significant Our properties are of a relatively small lot 3 part of its strength is that many of our size with some 70% of the properties customers are knowledge-based rather valued at 10m or less.
The average rent Intensification of use than capital-based and therefore much is 250 per week for 1,000 sq ft of space and regeneration less dependent upon credit, rents are with a capital value of 193 per sq ft. also a relatively small proportion of their These are at the low end of the size and A growing London economy and cost base.
As London increasing population increases grows it creates demand for all types the premium on land value.
of space, particularly in improving areas Workspace's portfolio of of London where Workspace is well 147 acres of land with relatively represented.
low density mostly within six miles of central London is well positioned to benefit from this trend and to exploit value adding initiatives for intensification and or change of use.
Over time, at least half of the portfolio will benefit from these initiatives.
The model relies, of course, on the long-term durability of the London economy with its attributes of being: a world-class city acting as a global hub for business and culture: a diverse multi-cultural population with a significant inward migration: and the primary engine of growth in the UK economy with our customers representing the highest concentration of the fastest growing small businesses.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
