Chief Executives review The heart and soul of the company is creativity and innovation.
Robert Iger Depilene Retards hair growth new in antiperspirants in 2009.
4 Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive 2008 was the most tumultuous and difficult year in living memory for the global chemical industry.
The first half was characterised by unprecedented rises in raw material and energy costs.
The second half saw a precipitous fall in demand in markets related to vehicles, consumer durables and construction.
Ten years ago we decided to focus on markets that had intrinsic growth in good times and bad, and it is this strategic focus that has enabled Croda to weather the storms and produce record sales and profits.
Current and Future Market Trends 40% reduction of hair after a 2-month treatment Consumer Care In spite of strong macro economic headwinds, sales rose 28.0% in 2008, with the strongest growth in the fourth quarter.
Within Consumer Care, there are four sectors Personal Care, Health Care, Home Care and Crop Care.
Personal Care The main drivers of the continued global growth Full Year Results in this market are vanity and an ageing population.
For the full year, we increased continuing pre-tax Other major drivers include a move to naturals and profit before exceptionals by 61.8% to a record ever more stringent quality standards.
This was achieved by the hard work of the has a growing appetite for innovation and Croda is whole team in completing the integration of Uniqema, recognised as a world leader in speciality ingredients in the timely disposal of non-core businesses and our for the whole range of Personal Care products.
relentless focus on pricing in the face of rampant raw Added impetus to growth is provided by the rapid material cost inflation.
In our Consumer Care business evolution of developing markets such as Asia and we maintained our target margins and improved Latin America.
We expect these factors to continue turnover by 28.0%.
Innovation is the key driver in to underpin growth in global personal care markets these attractive markets, coupled with the unrivalled for the foreseeable future.
Crodas ingredients quality of our product offering and the strong represent a very small proportion of the final selling technical sales and marketing teams across the world.
price of a personal care product, but they are often The result from Industrial Specialities was even the reason the product has an effect and, perhaps, further ahead, with profits up from 8.9m to 24.8m.
The pipeline of new products As discussed elsewhere, some of this increase came continues to grow from our research teams across from the abnormally high glycerine prices, which have the world, which gives us great confidence that we now fallen back.
Also, most of the markets served can maintain our position of leadership in this vibrant by this business were substantially depressed in the market.
5 Chief Executives review Never before in history has innovation offered promise of so much to so many in so short a time.
Bill Gates Health Care Crop Care The main drivers in this market are the developed The key drivers in this market are the growing food worlds increasing focus on well-being, the ageing demands of a rapidly expanding global population, population demographic and a move to natural self coupled with the pressure on agrochemical medication.
These factors have meant high growth companies to constantly reduce their environmental rates and we expect these to continue even during a impact.
Croda is a world leader in the design and global slowdown.
Crodas two main areas of expertise production of adjuvants and vehicles for a variety of are in excipients and in essential fatty acids.
Excipients agrochemical actives and works with all the major are the vehicles for topical medicaments which may companies in the market.
This was one of our fastest also aid recovery, such as high purity lanolin in wound growing sectors in 2008 and the market is expected care.
Croda is also a world leader in the production to show good progress in the future.
of high purity essential fatty acids, such as Omega 3 lipids for nutritional supplements and, increasingly, for Industrial Specialities therapeutic treatment of heart and inflammatory The main parts of this business are Polymer Additives, problems.
Lubricant Additives and Coatings Additives plus a number of smaller market areas such as water Home Care treatment.
The global market for household products has seen many years of growth.
The market is driven by a These businesses are more exposed to the industries growing global population, hygiene and pride in the most affected by the current recession.
Demand in appearance of ones home.
Croda provides natural the second half of 2008 was reduced and we expect solutions to a market that is moving inexorably this to continue in the first half of 2009.
In spite of the towards more biodegradable and concentrated second half severe downturn in the more industrial products with lower environmental impact.
Innovation markets, the business overall grew sales by 11.9% in is at the forefront of the major household product 2008.
Sales in the fourth quarter actually declined by companies and Crodas historic expertise in natural 15.7%.
Our strategy has been to reduce our exposure ingredients makes us an ideal partner in formulating to the more commoditised products in the portfolio products ranging from fabric softeners to toilet and the recent market shocks have convinced us that cleaners.
we are moving in the right direction.
6 Vegetable Omega 3 The value to human health of Omega 3 supplements is now accepted by the worldwide medical profession.
Until now, the only viable source of these fatty acids was marine oil.
Croda has patented Omega 3 products derived from echium oil, a plant seed oil.
This has taken many years to commercialise through crop development and larger scale planting.
7 LoVoCoat A green innovation for the surface coatings industry which allows the incorporation of more water, resulting in more environmentally friendly paints.
8 Chief Executives review Creativity is thinking up new things.
Innovation is doing new things.
Theodore Levitt These operations are more Our success is predicated on choosing the right exposed to global GDP trends, but markets and our focus markets have been selected our focus on innovating the product based on these criteria.
But choosing correctly is not range and on more speciality enough.
We have also invested in innovative plant and products has helped soften the processes to enhance our leadership position.
We blow of the global downturn.
have an innovation culture deeply embedded in the Operating profits for 2008 in whole Croda organisation, especially in our Research Industrial Specialities almost trebled teams and our global Sales and Marketing units.
We and, although boosted to a certain are also innovative in our responses to the global extent by favourable glycerine challenges to society and the environment.
pricing, this result is a testament to Our operating companies are set sales, profit growth our plan to improve the product and operating margin targets that form the basis of mix and adhere strictly to a price our budgets and strategic plans.
We report annually before volume policy.
on our progress against five key financial performance We expect these markets to remain indicators: depressed during the first half of n Return on sales 2009.
We will continue the planned n EPS growth restructuring in this business to n Post tax ROIC ensure its exposure to the more n commodity oleochemicals markets Net debt to EBITDA is substantially reduced.
n EBITDA to interest cover Strategy Our relentless focus on our customers and on innovation has brought us success in the past and we Our strategy has been unchanged for ten years.
We will continue this focus to create our future success aim to be a leading, independent, global speciality chemicals company.
We only invest in businesses if they can be truly global, can create innovative technology, can operate in markets with long term growth significantly higher than global GDP and can Mike Humphrey realistically sustain high operating margins.
