DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 1 2008 was my first full year at CSR, having joined the company in November 2007.
In common with most, if not all businesses in our sector and beyond, our plans for 2008 were affected by the global financial and economic crisis that developed during the year.
The liquidity constraints brought about initially by the banking crisis have had a significant impact on all aspects of the global economy.
Falling confidence in the economic outlook and a squeeze on disposable income have changed consumer spending decisions and this has translated directly into lower sales for our customers.
Throughout the year, we took steps to secure the longer term strategic and commercial success of the Company.
As the economic events became more acute during the autumn of 2008, we acted decisively and implemented significant cost reduction measures in order to position the business appropriately for the economic recession.
1 CSR IS SUPPLYING THE PRODUCTS AND DELIVERING THE SOLUTIONS TO MEET Regrettably, this has necessitated a reduction in THE DEMANDS FOR EASE OF WIRELESS CONNECTIVITY headcount.
It was not a decision we took lightly.
At the same time, it shows our commitment to taking the decisions which are necessary to keep the Company 2 on the right financial footing and we believe will see the Company through these difficult times.
The cost savings programme was fully implemented by the end of 2008 so we will benefit fully from this action in 2009.
Overall we have reduced our cost base by approximately $25 million on an annualised basis.
Strong fundamentals CSR is a sound business with world-leading skills in a dynamic market.
The markets we supply are also 2 WIRELESS CONNECTIVITY IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF HOW PEOPLE WANT fundamentally sound.
Wireless connectivity is an integral TO COMMUNICATE part of how people want to communicate, whether at work or in their leisure time and CSR is supplying the products and delivering the solutions to meet the demands for ease of wireless connectivity, whether for voice, music, video or data.
In 2008 we shipped nearly 40% of the worlds Bluetooth chips and were designed-in around 50% of all Bluetooth-qualified products.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 07 our Priorities are to continue to strengthen our leading market Position, maintain our strong balance sheet and manage our costs and working caPital in line with the realities of the marketPlace Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer Perhaps more importantly still, we have been developing The review was a major investment in resources and a number of exciting products during the year: commitment and it revealed a significant opportunity.
CSR has the products, the customer relationships BlueCore7000 range, our next-generation Bluetooth and the capabilities to lead what we have called the chip, combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit, FM Connectivity Centre.
As a result of the review, Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.
we were also able to make better informed choices We believe that BlueCore7000 is a world leading about where we wanted to focus our capabilities, which product.
We anticipate shipping BC7000 to our lead resulted in discontinuing certain operations associated customer in the third quarter this year.
with the acquisition we made in 2005 of UbiNetics.
These resources were largely redeployed onto MusiCore is a high performance product aimed at projects consistent with executing on the Connectivity improved audio quality for music phones.
adds audio to Bluetooth, allowing people to enjoy up to 100 hours of high quality playback via their mobile CSR enters 2009 with a very clear strategy and phone handset.
It also provides our customers with roadmap for our long term growth which is to focus a significant bill of materials saving.
Once again, CSR on the Connectivity Centre.
has created a world first with this product.
The Connectivity Centre UF6000 is our third generation embedded Wi-Fi The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects product family which offers the smallest chip size of any of short range wireless connectivity products with comparable product together with an ultra low cost.
excellent co-existence, capable of operating concurrently without degradation in optimum performance.
Bluetooth, BlueCore7000 and MusiCore have been demonstrated FM radio, Wi-Fi, UWB, high quality audio for music, to customers at various international trade shows early Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology in 2009 and each of these three products is sampling at and Near Field Communications can all ultimately Tier 1 customers.
Operational assessment Our research shows that the market for Connectivity Undoubtedly, a key highlight of the year was the Centre products in the medium term will be driven development and implementation of our new strategy, by the exciting developments in smart and feature following a comprehensive review which I initiated soon phones.
With our help, customers can put world-class after I joined CSR.
connectivity in their products at competitive prices and are able to choose, within reason, exactly what During the assessment, we looked at our market in capabilities they need for any particular product to meet great detail and consulted widely to critique our existing end-customer demand.
This provides our customers views on the opportunities for winning in the global with an important differentiator.
Despite the economic market for wireless solutions.
Crucially, we undertook slowdown, we expect the Connectivity Centre market in-depth discussions with our customers on all has the potential to grow from around $3.5 billion in 2007 continents, and asked the leading players where they to between $5 billion and $7 billion in 2012. anticipated the most growth.
We also carried out a ruthless analysis of our own capabilities, identifying strengths and weaknesses to determine our most advantageous positioning.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued the connectivity centre informs every key decision from where we invest the bulk of our r&d dollars, to how we lay out our roadmaP Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer 08 THE CONNECTIVITY CENTRE The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of short range wireless connectivity products with excellent co-existence, capable of operating concurrently without degradation in optimum performance.
Bluetooth, FM radio, Wi-Fi, Ultra Wideband, high quality audio for music, Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology and Near Field Communications can all ultimately co-exist alongside each other.
Bluetooth FM radio GPS location-finding G GP PSS technology High quality audio for music Wi-Fi Bluetooth A new low B B e e m m : : d d [ [ h h ] ] o o power wireless technology Ultra Wideband Near Feld Communications G GP PSS Bluetooth B Be em m : :d d[ [hh] ]oo csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 The Connectivity Centre focus informs every key We recognise the importance of our business activities 09 decision, from where we should invest the bulk of being supported by a sound financial footing.
CSR remains our R&D dollars to how we lay out our roadmap and strongly cash generative, with an operating cash inflow which potential strategic partnerships merit further for the final quarter of 2008 of $34 million and a closing investigation.
The first question in any discussion is net cash balance for the year of $262 million.
This, always the same: how will this action help us build combined with our tight management of costs strength in the Connectivity Centre?
and inventory, will allow CSR to support its existing business through our own cash resources.
Further progress During 2008 we implemented more effective project Notwithstanding the more immediate challenges facing management that plans, monitors and supports the many businesses, we are confident in the long-term execution of our projects.
This allows us to have greater potential of the Connectivity Centre and in our ability confidence in the delivery of our product roadmap and to take advantage of our position as a leading player ultimately meeting our strategic goals.
It also ensures in its development.
that we have a clear understanding of how our critical financial and people resources are being applied, Today, our focus is sharper than ever before.
As a leading enabling us to respond quickly where necessary to player in wireless connectivity, we are faced with many meet changing circumstances, as demonstrated opportunities each of which represents a significant by the events of the final quarter of 2008.
It was important to make an informed, institutionalised programme management within clear choice about where our expertise should be directed the organisation and have improved the way in which in order to generate maximum returns for shareholders.
we track programmes through monthly reviews.
We have made that choice and now have a clearly defined set of priorities for the business.
Our approach to projects has also been revitalised, with an emphasis on multi-disciplinary teamwork, 2009 will be tough for all businesses.
We are budgeting with a single owner of each project, from conception through to delivery.
on the basis of a continued slowdown in economic activity as well as a continuation in the entire supply chain The results of this focus is demonstrated by the recent fide-stocking.
Our priorities are to continue to strengthen launch of three new products that we expect will have a our leading market position, maintain our strong balance positive impact on our revenues starting later this year sheet and manage our costs and working capital in line and building through the next.
Based on the encouraging with the realities of the marketplace.
level of customer engagement, we believe that our products will be in demand in the future as they are Commercially, we enter 2009 with a product development becoming increasingly core to the wireless and pipeline in excellent shape, as demonstrated by the recent connected world in which we now live.
launch of three new products BC7000, UF6000 and CSR Synergy as well as the soon to be launched CSR9000, our We have also upgraded and improved our commercial leading edge Bluetooth GPS Wi-Fi FM combination chip.
A new team has been established and their We expect all these products will have a positive impact on commercial acumen, combined with a suitable amount our revenues starting later this year and building through of assertiveness, is already showing effect.
Each of these is superior in performance and cost-effectiveness to competitors offers.
In the following sections of this Annual Report, we outline in more detail our expectations for the Financially, we have ensured we are strong.
Operationally, Connectivity Centre and how we intend to implement our execution has noticeably sharpened and we have the a winning strategy for the future.
ability, should it become necessary, to respond to further deterioration in markets.
2009 and beyond 2009 will be equally if not more challenging than 2008.
However, looking beyond the short-term macroJoep van Beurden economic difficulties, we have great cause for optimism.
Chief Executive Officer 2008 has seen CSR change in ways which better position us for the future.
Our company is a strong business with huge opportunities brought alive by our focus on the Connectivity Centre and delivered by the most talented and committed people in our industry.
BlueCore7, MusiCore and UF6026 will all come to market during the next 12 months.
We anticipate revenue from the second half of the year onwards and, together, we expect these three products will help lay the foundations for growth in 2010 and beyond.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 10 CONNECTIVITY TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP Constant evolution since 1999.
A progressive increase in functionality coupled with a steady reduction in size.
BlueCore7000 Bluetooth, FM Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS functionality on one chip.
The shrink the chip but expand the functionality trend will continue.
TIME 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 First Bluetooth Audio on-chip Bluetooth Added SIZE AND DEVELOPMENT chip implemented 2.0 Enhanced ROM added IN FUNCTIONALITY into mobile handset Data Rate dimensions mm 2 40 mm 2 35 mm 2 30 mm 2 25 mm 2 20 mm 2 15 mm 2 10 mm Shrink process Shrink Shrink process Shrink Shrink process continues continues continues process design 2 5 mm 2 0 mm GENERATION OF BC1 BC2 BC3 BC4 BC1 4.86 x 4.86 4.24 x 4.41 3.84 x 3.40 3.8 x 3.62 CSR TECHNOLOGY 4.86 x 4.86 dimensions mm csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 11 2006 2007 2008 2009 FM radio UniFi 1 Improved Added UWB UF6000 first 802.11 a, b, g voice and FM 100 Megabit 802.11 a, b, g, n added music quality Transmit, per second 5.84 x 6.44 3.70 x 4.17 to chip BLE and data transfer FM GPS 5.12 x 5.12 Receive Shrink Shrink Shrink Shrink Shrink process process process process process continues continues continues continues continues Increasing future connectivity BC5 BC6 BC7 4.04 x 4.12 3.49 x 3.21 3.60 x 3.25 csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 12 CONNECTING WITH QUALITY CSR is changing the way the world connects.
We have BLUECORE7000 IS OUR NEXTdeveloped products that help people interact, navigate, GENERATION BLUETOOTH CHIP play music and connect to the internet.
CSR technology AND CONTINUES OUR RELENTLESS inspires, enlivens and offers an ever-improving user experience for people worldwide.
DRIVE TOWARDS PUTTING GREATER PERFORMANCE ON AN EVER Our customers the leading manufacturers who incorporate SMALLER CHIP our technology in their products include many of the worlds top names in electronics.
Bose, Nokia, Samsung, Sanyo, Sony MUSICORE IS OUR HIGH Ericsson and many more rely on our expertise to add value to PERFORMANCE COMBINED AUDIO their products and give them global commercial appeal.
AND BLUETOOTH PRODUCT FOR World class products MUSIC PHONES ALLOWING 100 HOURS We are a world leader in connectivity.
During 2008 we shipped OF HIGH QUALITY AUDIO PLAYBACK our one billionth chip since the first shipment was made in 2001 and continued with strong positions in each of our two UF6000 IS OUR EMBEDDED WI-FI CHIP key market sectors: cellular handsets and headsets: and Non-cellular applications.
THAT OFFERS HIGH PERFORMANCE, HIGH SPEED DOWNLOADS OF LARGE FILES SUCH AS VIDEO CLIPS OUR CUSTOMERS INCLUDE MANY OF THE WORLDS TOP NAMES IN ELECTRONICS csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 13 1 2 1 WE LEAD THE HEADSET MARKET WITH A SHARE OF AROUND 80% 2 CSR TECHNOLOGY INSPIRES, ENLIVENS AND OFFERS AN EVER IMPROVING USER EXPERIENCE Cellular successful.
Firstly, the evolution of baseband technology is In handsets, over half of all products sold now incorporate significantly slower than the changes being made to the wireless Bluetooth technology.
Over the last four years, we have seen this connectivity technology.
Secondly, the continuing growth in attach figure known as the attach rate rise from just 14% and expect this rates in a number of applications, as mentioned in this section of upward trend to continue over the long term.
Our products benefit the report: and thirdly, we believe that Bluetooth will continue from a loyal, established and diverse customer base, and we are to be used as an anchor point around which other technology is key suppliers to many of them.
This latter point is reflected in both our existing product roadmap and the development of the Connectivity Centre see the We anticipate that the Bluetooth attach rate for handsets will diagram on page 8. continue to increase over the next few years, albeit that the total number of handsets sold is expected to drop in 2009 as a result In headsets, we again lead the market with a share of around of the current economic environment.
Our products are particularly strong at the top end of the market where customers demand the greatest capability and The Bluetooth standard has evolved year-on-year as more performance and here we have almost 100% market share.
Not only has the performance of Demand for headsets is driven in part by legislation and in June our Bluetooth continued to improve, but we have also been able 2008 we benefited when laws concerning the mandatory use to combine that enhanced performance with the addition of new of a hands-free device for making phone calls while driving were functionality.
For example, the integration of FM radio onto our introduced in California and Washington state in the US.
chips provides improved sound quality that enables the user to enjoy listening to music tracks as well as experience improved In addition, we are seeing an increasing number of new headset voice reception.
applications leading to opportunities in areas such as the market for games consoles or gaming where several leading headset We recognise that a potential challenge to our strength in manufacturers are now active.
Stereo headsets are also expected Bluetooth could be mounted by a competitor choosing to integrate to be a market opportunity of the future.
Our solutions provide long the Bluetooth-only function into the baseband chip in the phone.
battery life and high quality audio comparable with that offered by However, based on our own research, we believe that there are wired headphones.
several key reasons why such a challenge is not likely to be csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 14 CONNECTING WITH QUALITY continued Non-cellular Non-cellular applications are served by our PC, Automotive and Consumer division.
Wireless connectivity continues to provide growth potential across many consumer devices in the medium term, with both the total available market and the attach rate showing growth.
Gaming is an exciting market as is the automotive segment, where we lead the market for Bluetooth solutions.
Although sales of cars are likely to fall during 2009, we believe that a greater percentage of new models will feature 1 Bluetooth functionality.
The inclusion of Bluetooth is relatively inexpensive for manufacturers while being extremely attractive to their customers.
Personal Navigation Devices PNDs are also an important sector for us and our RoadTunes product is now installed in the high volume devices of a leading US manufacturer.
RoadTunes combines in a single device the capability to make and receive phone calls simply through a voice instruction from the driver.
It features state-of-the-art noise and echo cancellation for a better user experience and also allows the driver to access in-car information and entertainment systems termed infotainment by voice activation alone.
Other notable CSR design wins in the Non-cellular sector include digital photo frames, and TVs.
Indeed, we are seeing an increasing number of new applications for Bluetooth technology as it becomes a more mainstream and 2 cost-effective connectivity solution.
We are therefore encouraged by the enormous opportunities for our technology that have still to be exploited.
World class innovation We made significant progress with three important new products during 2008.
BlueCore7000 is our next-generation Bluetooth chip and continues our relentless drive towards putting greater performance on an ever-smaller chip.
Size is a key factor for our customers and as we demonstrate on pages 10 and 11, we have a proven track record of increasing functionality while also reducing the size of our chips.
This is important to our customers, since it reduces the space required by our chip when incorporated into their products.
BlueCore7000 combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.
It therefore delivers good radio performance for the user, while consuming less power than even conventional Bluetooth and at the same time providing personal navigation via a mobile phone 1 OUR ROADTUNES PRODUCT IS NOW INSTALLED IN THE HIGH VOLUME DEVICES OF A U. S. MANUFACTURER or other hand held device all on a single chip.
We expect to enter mass production towards the end of the second quarter of 2009 2 BLUECORE7000, OUR NEXT GENERATION CHIP COMBINES BLUETOOTH WITH FM TRANSMIT, FM RECEIVE, BLUETOOTH LOW and anticipate sales revenue in the second half of the year.
ENERGY AND GPS CAPABILITY csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 we work with the worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers Providing leading edge technology suPPorted by Proven quality Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer 15 MusiCore adds audio to Bluetooth and is perfectly matched to In 2009, we intend to ramp volume production for both 90nm the increasing consumer demand for music phones which have and 65nm products.
As demonstrated by the graphic on pages traditionally received poor uptake due to limited battery life and 10 and 11, over the period since 2001, we have progressively poor audio quality.
Here again the size and power consumption transitioned to smaller geometries as part of our drive to reduce of CSRs chips enable our customers to create breakthroughs cost, thereby remaining price competitive.
We work closely with in the quality of their products.
Our chip offers market-leading our key partners when implementing these new products, as the performance, including 100 hours of high quality playback time process of adopting leading-edge technologies brings significant with audio quality comparable to leading-edge MP3 players and challenges.
In conjunction with TSMC and ASE, we work to a bill of materials that is significantly lower than the competition.
ensure that the introduction of these changes does not impact We expect to see revenue streams from leading manufacturers on either delivery schedules or product quality.
We will continue in the second half of 2009. to build on the strong relationships with both TSMC and ASE, ensuring that our customers benefit from an operational capability UF6000 is our embedded Wi-Fi chip.
With UF6000, focused on world-leading quality, delivery and performance.
manufacturers are able to create handsets that offer high performance, high speed downloads of large files, such as World class talent video clips or large music files that the user can send or receive via We employ around 975 people at 18 sites in 10 countries their mobile device.
Our Wi-Fi chip co-exists effectively alongside worldwide.
Over 75% of our people are engineers, reflecting Bluetooth in the same device.
This means that the user can make our emphasis on leading-edge science and our commitment a phone call using Bluetooth while also carrying out a Wi-Fi activity to innovation.
such as uploading a video clip at the same time without the performance of either function being compromised.
We carried out a restructuring of our teams during 2008. Business units have been merged and reorganised and this World class manufacturing action has hugely simplified the way in which we allocate our We work with the worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers in R&D resource.
There is now significantly better alignment order to maintain and enhance our reputation among customers between R&D projects and the business units, which has resulted for leading-edge technology supported by reliable supply, proven in greater commercial agility and more rapid decision-making, quality and excellent cost advantages.
allowing us to exploit new opportunities as well as respond at speed to our customers requirements.
CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
All wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and shipping is subcontracted to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company TSMC and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering ASE.
TSMC is the largest wafer manufacturer in the world offering the leading technologies in wafer fabrication.
ASE is the largest packaging and testing company in the world with significantly greater capability and capacity than any other supplier.
In 2008, we developed a range of new products utilising both 90nm and 65nm technology and also completed development of advanced new packaging technology to complement our world-leading Wafer Level Chip Scale Package WLCSP capability.
WLCSP enables us to prepare and package a chip at the wafer level instead of the more traditional method which involves assembling the package after the wafer has been diced into individual chips.
We expanded our assembly manufacturing base by qualifying ASEs facility in Shanghai, China for manufacturing low cost packages.
Furthermore, we extended our WLCSP capability by transitioning new products from 8 wafers to ASEs new 12 wafer manufacturing line.
This provides efficiencies in testing and packaging and therefore saves on costs.
The year also saw us work closely with TSMC on the development of 40nm technology for advanced RF wireless product applications.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 16 CONNECTING WITH PERFORMANCE CSR is pioneering connectivity, changing the way the WE ARE COMBINING DIFFERENT world connects.
The trend towards a wire-free world WIRELESS STANDARDS TO ENHANCE is set to continue in the coming years.
This is the future THE CAPABILITIES OF CONSUMERS that consumers demand and which CSR, through its ground-breaking technology, enables leading MOBILE DEVICES TO COMMUNICATE manufacturers to exploit.
WITH EACH OTHER Personal devices featuring CSR technology can direct you to the CSR HAS THE EXPERIENCE AND THE nearest coffee bar, petrol station or supermarket.
On your journey, KNOW-HOW TO BUILD AND CONTINUALLY you can listen to FM radio stations, broadcast from the handset to INNOVATE CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS a set of stereo headphones.
Or you can choose to listen to any of around 500 of your own music tracks, using only a fraction of the battery power usually associated with a music capability.
While BLUECORE7000, MUSICORE AND UF6000 youre waiting for your coffee to cool, you can check your ARE EXAMPLES OF NEW PRODUCTS Facebook wall, catch up on the news or download music or COMING TO MARKET, HERALDING THE podcasts through your Wi-Fi or Ultra Wideband connection.
START OF A NEW PHASE IN CSRS Tightening our focus DEVELOPMENT Following the operational review, we have been focussed on the Connectivity Centre.
Although the term Connectivity Centre was originally coined by CSR and first used when we announced the results of our operational review in the spring of 2008, such is the compelling case of the concept that it is already used by competitors and customers alike.
However, we believe that the Connectivity Centre is far more than a neat phrase for describing the bringing together of different wireless technologies.
The Connectivity Centre is not only the future of wireless communication: it is already happening.
We are combining different wireless standards to enhance the capabilities of consumers mobile devices to communicate with each other.
Significantly, we believe also that only CSR offers a true Connectivity Centre, with all technologies fully-integrated and capable of operating together while sustaining optimum high level performance for the user.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 17 Market opportunity applications such as watches, TV remote controls and medical The Connectivity Centre offers a significant growth opportunity.
In fact low-power wireless technology can transfer data from one location to another at a fraction of the cost of existing Smartphones and feature phones, which have additional products.
For example, training shoes can incorporate monitors functionality and provide the user with greater flexibility of to record fitness and sports data which can then be downloaded applications in their mobile phone, will become increasingly wirelessly onto a home computer.
Similarly, pulse rate data important at the expense of more basic and ultra low cost models.
recorded by a medical device can be downloaded wirelessly at According to industry sources such as ABI and IMS, the number home or at a local surgery, giving physicians valuable information of smartphones and feature phones the core market for the about the patients day.
Connectivity Centre will surpass 1.1 billion units worldwide by 2012.
By the same year, the total addressable market for the Wi-Fi Connectivity Centre has the potential to grow to be between With UF6026, our Wi-Fi solution, people can transfer data at $5 billion and $7 billion compared to around $3.5 billion in 2007. high speed, downloading music or films and browsing the web.
UF6026 co-exists alongside Bluetooth in the same device so that, CSR has the experience and the know-how to build and for example, consumers can make wireless phone calls while continually innovate connectivity solutions in order to meet uploading files at the same time.
end-user demand for increasingly sophisticated and multifunctional wireless interface between devices.
We believe that these products, which will support revenue opportunities in 2009 and beyond, demonstrate our firm The Connectivity Centre commitment to extending our technology capabilities.
Today, Bluetooth represents over 95% of our revenues.
We BlueCore7000, MusiCore and UF6000 are examples of new recognise that the continuing success of CSR lies in developing products coming to market, heralding the start of a new phase additional technologies that operate seamlessly with Bluetooth in CSRs development.
as one part of a connectivity capability.
At the end of 2008, our Connectivity Centre was offering proven performance in a number of key technologies: 1 Bluetooth Our teams continue to push back the boundaries of Bluetooth.
During 2008, we shipped nearly 40% of the worlds Bluetooth chips and our technology featured in around 50% of all new product designs that incorporated Bluetooth.
FM Music and audio are increasingly important to consumers and, therefore, to our customers.
Our FM capability allows people to listen to radio stations on the move, via a Bluetooth mono or stereo headset.
GPS Interest in and use of GPS grew rapidly in 2008 and is expected to continue to increase during 2009.
Our GPS solution, which features significant technical advantages, is a fraction of the cost of alternative solutions while also being capable of acquiring a location signal more quickly, even inside buildings.
This means we can offer greater reliability and therefore an enhanced user experience.
1 OUR FM CAPABILITY ALLOWS PEOPLE TO LISTEN TO RADIO STATIONS ON THE MOVE, VIA BLUETOOTH MONO OR STEREO Bluetooth low energy HEADSET This new low-power wireless technology can be used to transfer simple data sets between compact devices, and can run for up to an astonishing ten years on one button-like cell battery.
This opens up whole new opportunities for Bluetooth, addressing compact csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
