qxd 6 6 08 09:09 Page 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 4 Chief Executives review Strong brand performance Market Market growth Brand Brand growth Group net debt at 31 March 2008 was UK cheese 23.8 million higher than 31 March 2007 7% 23% at 474.8 million 2007: 451.0 million.
UK dairy spreads This reflects the adverse impact of the 3% 29% appreciation of the Euro versus Sterling on our Euro denominated debt.
This UK dairy spreads 3% -11% increased net debt by 46.2 million.
Assuming no further significant exchange UK spreadable rate movements, net debt at 31 March 21% 25% butters 2009 is expected to be at about the same level.
This will result from higher cheese French non 0% 17% stocks, capital expenditure on the new butter spreads cheese packing plant at Nuneaton and the Chilled yogurts final year of additional cash contributions 4% 25% and desserts to the pension fund.
Net debt should reduce beyond 2008 09 as capital Chilled yogurts 4% 34% and desserts expenditure is expected to return to normal levels.
Flavoured milk 7% 10% Strong branded performance Source: TNS Worldpanel 2008 AC Nielsen or IRI or TNS 52 Our portfolio of brands, supported by week MAT value growth to March 2008 Dairy Crest sales increased marketing investment, has growth by value.
delivered a particularly strong performance this year.
Against the well documented Overview and Express Dairies last year.
We also challenging environment most of the key The Group has performed well during the saw benefits from price increases achieved brands delivered double-digit sales growth year and has again delivered a significant across the range of our products during the as we continued to evolve our portfolio to uplift in both revenue and pre-exceptional year.
Adjusted profit before tax including meet consumer lifestyles.
These results reflect the benefits of share of profits from joint ventures, net sales performance is, in part, the result of the strategic moves we made in 2006 07 of tax, and before exceptional items and price inflation across the dairy category, notably the acquisition of St Hubert and amortisation of acquired intangibles was many of these brands have also delivered the strong performance of our branded up 24% at 96.1 million 2007: 77.4 strong volume growth and increased business.
Most of our key brands have million.
This again reflects the benefit market share.
increased market share with double-digit of the St Hubert acquisition and strong In our cheese business, Cathedral City sales growth.
This performance has been performances by the cheese and dairy has reinforced its position as the UKs most delivered despite a challenging market ingredients businesses partly offset popular cheese brand.
Sales have grown background where we have seen by the impact of the Clover operational 23% and the brand is now worth over unprecedented raw milk price rises, other issues in UK spreads.
After deducting 160 million at retail prices.
The brand was commodity cost inflation and significant 21.1 million of exceptional items 2007: recently placed 36th in Nielsens top 100 operational disruption to Clover during 10.1 million and 9.0 million of acquired UK grocery brands.
intangible amortisation 2007: 2.7 million, In UK spreads, Utterly Butterly and profit before tax was up 2% at 66.0 million Country Life Spreadable both grew Financial results 2007: 64.6 million.
Basic earnings per strongly with sales up 29% and 25% The Group achieved revenue of share were 40.2 pence 2007: 41.7 pence.
In France St Hubert Omega 3, 1,569.7 million 2007: 1,309.3 million.
Adjusted earnings per share increased the market leading French spreads brand, This significant increase of 20% principally by 17% to 57.1 pence per share 2007: has continued to be the star performer with results from the acquisitions of St Hubert 48.7 pence.
The year in brief 4704 DC08 FrontSection v4.0.
qxd 6 6 08 03:37 Page 5 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 5 The Yoplait brands as a whole have These include resin, diesel, vegetable oil and The course will be designed to give all delivered double digit sales growth.
To date we have been successful of our managers the confidence and ability particular Petits Filous and Frubes have in implementing price increases to our to lead from the front, and to deal with the reinforced their leading position in the customers to recover these costs.
These growing demands of an ever-changing childrens category with sales up 25% and upward pressures on both milk and oil business environment.
Finally in the related costs continue.
Make-A-Wish, our charity of the year, Dairies division Frijj, our market leading fresh raises money so that magical wishes can flavoured milk drink, and Country Life organic Our responsibilities be granted to children and young people milk grew by 11% and 15% respectively Our aim is to always consider the longfighting life-threatening diseases.
term implications of our actions on the have generously supported this and, Sales of Clover were down 11% on last environment and to take active steps to through their considerable efforts, we are year.
This was the result of very limited act responsibly.
on course to raise an impressive 500,000. promotional activity following the product One of the ways we are doing this recall in May 2007.
We are confident that is by reducing waste and recycling more.
Office of Fair Trading investigation Clover is on track to recover strongly this As part of our membership of the Courtauld In common with a number of other year.
To this end sales volumes of Clover Commitment we are working with WRAP, processors and retailers, we announced in April 2008 have already returned to prethe Governments Waste Recycling Action on 7 December 2007 that Dairy Crest had recall levels.
We launched a new television Programme, to find ways of reducing reached an early resolution agreement with advertising campaign for Clover in March packaging and improve recycling rates.
the Office of Fair Trading concerning its 2008 and will be actively promoting the One area of current focus is recycling investigation into the milk price initiatives brand again this year.
polybottles where we are collaborating of 2002 and 2003.
Under this agreement Looking forward we will continue to meet with a number of partners.
Most recently Dairy Crest expects to pay a significantly changing consumer lifestyles and demands we have been working with Dairy UK and reduced fine of 9.4 million provided that with our plans for healthier variants of these the Department for Environment Food and it continues to co-operate fully with the brands.
We have already launched a number Rural Affairs on the Milk Roadmap.
of such products over the last two years.
has the target that half of all milk packaging Compliance with competition law is These include Cathedral City Lighter, with will come from recycled material by 2020. a high priority for the Group and we have 30% less fat than standard mature cheddar, Dairy Crest is committed to reducing its updated our processes and implemented Country Life Spreadable Lighter and Utterly carbon footprint and is currently developing new training for all our commercial teams, Butterly with Omega 3.
This will continue to a carbon management plan with the senior management and other relevant be a key area of focus in our new product Carbon Trust.
We have been working to employees to ensure that competition law development activities with the intention this reduce the amount of energy we use and is fully complied with across the Group.
year to launch a lighter variant of Clover.
have achieved a year on year reduction of 8% in CO2 manufacturing emissions.
Outlook Managing cost inflation We have reduced the amount of water We have delivered a strong set of financial Industry raw milk prices rose sharply in the we use for manufacturing processes and results.
These have benefited from the autumn of 2007 as a result of increased have signed up to the Envirowise Federation strategic moves made over the last eighteen commodity prices, higher on-farm costs House commitment to make a 20% months.
Most of our key brands in the UK and national volume shortages.
As reduction from our current water usage and France, including Cathedral City, previously reported we were successful levels by 2010.
Country Life Spreadable, Utterly Butterly, in recovering these higher milk costs by St Hubert Omega 3, Petits Filous and Frubes implementing price increases across the Excellent people have increased market share with doublerange of our products during the second Our success is fundamentally linked to the digit sales growth.
In addition Clover is on half.
Our farmer suppliers are continuing skills, energy, initiative and commitment of track to recover strongly this year.
In our to face higher on-farm costs particularly our people who now number approximately Dairies division we have made progress in respect of animal feed.
This year and improved manufacturing efficiencies.
we supported our farmer suppliers in the saw the arrival of many new colleagues We continue to actively manage our last quarter of the year by maintaining raw to the Dairy Crest team including staff who margins.
We have implemented price milk prices despite falling prices in dairy have joined us with the dairy business of increases to offset rises in both milk and ingredients.
Since the year end we have the East of England Co-operative Society.
commodity costs and have reduced our further supported our milk suppliers by We continue to invest in our staff and cost base.
Trading at the start of the year announcing increases on milk prices paid make available a significant number of is in line with expectations and we remain on both our cheese contracts 0.75 pence development and skills courses.
This year confident that our business is well placed per litre on our Davidstow contracts from the first four members of staff have to meet the challenges of the year ahead.
May 2008 and liquids contracts 0.5 pence graduated from our bespoke Operational per litre from June.
Excellence MSc, which is accredited by the In addition to milk cost inflation, like all University of Birmingham.
We are also other food producers we are facing introducing a new leadership development Mark Allen Chief Executive inflationary pressures in a number of areas.
programme for our management team.
