08 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW MARTIN MORGAN TO VIEW MARTIN MORGANS VIDEO STATEMENT GO TO: CHIEF EXECUTIVE WWW.
COM 2008 OVERVIEW  OUR STRATEGY FOR FUTURE SUCCESS FOCUSES ON THREE KEY AREAS FOCUSING ON BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS IN TOUGH ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES GROWING OUR BUSINESS FOCUSED MEDIA SUPPORTING OUR NEWSPAPERS AND INVESTING IN CONSUMER DIGITAL BUSINESSES OUR STRATEGY OF CREATING This Business Review is addressed to and performance of each of our operating A DIVERSIFIED INTERNATIONAL the members of the Company to help divisions.
A Financial and Treasury PORTFOLIO OF MARKET-LEADING them assess how the Directors have Review follows on pages 36 to 41.
OPERATIONS ACROSS BOTH BUSINESS AND CONSUMER performed their duty to promote the COMPANIES HAS PROVIDED success of the Company, as set out DMGTS PHILOSOPHY CONSIDERABLE OVERALL RESILIENCE AND LEAVES US in the Companies Act 2006.
It is DMGTs practice over many years WELL POSITIONED TO DELIVER framed, having in mind the principles has been to take advantage of its LONG-TERM GROWTH.
and guidelines for Operating and shareholding structure to invest for Financial Reviews published by the the long term in order to generate value UK Accounting Standards Board in 2006. for its shareholders.
Control by a It describes the main operational and founding family is a model which has financial factors underpinning the been demonstrated to serve the media development, performance and position industry well over time.
Our strategy of the Group as well as those likely takes as given the controlling familys to affect performance over the coming wish that the Groups investments will year, illustrating this with key be media businesses: be operated with performance indicators.
a view to sustaining good medium to long-term returns: and be nanced and This Chief Executives Review sets managed on a prudent risk and reward out the nature, objectives and strategy of basis.
We are prepared to have a long the Group, together with the principal timeframe to investment maturity and risks and uncertainties we face.
It is realisation, provided the business in Adjusted operating pro t before followed on pages 23 to 35 by a question is a market leader, growing exceptional items and amortisation business review of the development and achieving strong margins.
and impairment of tangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 09 THE GROUPS OBJECTIVE IS TO BE NATURE OF THE BUSINESS ow progressively away from a THE OWNER OF HIGH QUALITY DMGT is a multiple media business, dependence on UK newspapers.
SUSTAINABLE MEDIA PROPERTIES, WHICH LEAD THEIR MARKETS.
as illustrated on pages 20 and 21 of this Our national newspapers have done Annual Report, operating in different tremendously well, faring much better markets, each within its particular than others, and remain highly pro table.
competitive and regulatory We have continued to invest in them in environments.
Operational responsibility order to grow their market-leading is devolved to our divisions whose positions.
Whereas the Groups earnings boards the executive Directors chair.
grew strongly in the late 1990s largely We operate with a light touch from the due to our newspapers, more recently centre, relieving line management of it is our business-focused operations public company activities that do not that have shown stronger earnings contribute at the operating level, but growth.
Hence our strategy has been strong financial controls, particularly to invest in DMGI and Euromoney where over capital allocation, are retained at performance has been excellent: and the centre.
DMGTs objectives are in exhibitions where performance has embedded into the thinking of each been improving.
So capital allocation of our divisional management teams.
over the long term has seen a move towards investment in B2B operations, Our operations are divided between a trend we see continuing.
business to business B2B and consumer media.
B2B comprises DMG As a consequence of this deliberate Information DMGI, with RMS now deployment of capital, an increased becoming a separate division, Euromoney percentage of the Groups revenues and DMG World Media.
Consumer media is generated from revenue streams is made up of Associated and Northcliffe other than advertising, principally Media and DMG Radio Australia.
A signi cant September, we established A&N Media, part of our operations are now outside WE INTEND TO TURN DMGT INTO A a structure to share services across the UK and the Groups exposure to TRULY GLOBAL GROWTH COMPANY, both newspaper divisions and to regulation has been greatly reduced BUILDING ON THE SOLID AND DIVERSIFIED PLATFORM THAT WE improve operational ef ciency.
so that in 2008 more than 60% of its HAVE ESTABLISHED.
operating pro ts were derived outside STRATEGY newspaper publishing, compared to The Groups objective is to be the owner 14% in 1996. of high quality sustainable media properties, which lead their markets, Looking back over the past five years, thereby generating a premium return as shown on page 38, the Groups for shareholders.
Since 1996, our overall performance has been strategy has been to continue to sustain reasonable, but recently more mixed.
and invest in our market leading UK Northcliffe has been the largest newspapers, and to acquire or develop contributor of net cash in the period, but high growth media businesses on this cannot now be assumed in future.
By a This means that tougher choices will be combination of these objectives, we seek needed as to where to allocate capital.
to drive up DMGTs overall share rating.
DMGT operational model Having taken over as Chief Executive The approach to managing the Groups only at the start of the new financial divisions and those divisions strategies year, I am working with the Chairman has not changed in recent years.
The to refresh our long-term strategy, DMGT operational model has been for although the current focus is inevitably generally autonomous divisional on leading the Group through its management, strong incentives based short-term challenges.
I plan to make a on performance and central control of statement to the market in March 2009 surplus capital and of its re-investment.
on our plans for the Group.
This will include how we intend to turn DMGT into Over the last few years, it has become a truly global growth company, building clear that the rate of change within the on the solid and diversi ed platform that Group has needed to quicken, given the we have established.
threat to traditional media forms and the opportunities from new technologies.
Allocation of capital The need for the Group to go faster led DMGTs owner minded structure has directly to: the decision in 2004 to put allowed it to deploy a consistent capital a Capital Appreciation Plan CAP into allocation plan over time, moving cash Euromoney Institutional Investor: www.
com 2008 10 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued the strategic review of Northcliffe programme over the last few years, Combined revenue Media during 2005 6: and to a strategic which will continue.
But most critically review of DMG World Media undertaken we will be maintaining revenue 849m last year.
investment where we have growth Combined revenue of our B2B opportunities, for example Jobsite, companies.
The motivating impact of the CAP on RMS, Genscape, Mail Online and Euromoneys senior management Northcliffe International.
Euromoney is Total investment turbo-charged its performance over maintaining a similar policy.
the period of the scheme, after several 459m years of at earnings, and in 2008 the Business to business Total investment in DMGI since 1996. second tranche of its CAP vested as Over the years we have built a Euromoney again reported record signi cant and highly successful group pro ts.
We have agreed to support of companies in B2B, with combined the proposed introduction of a new revenues of 849 million and with a CAP following the satisfaction of the healthy operating margin of 22%.
performance tests for the final tranche of the first CAP.
We have put long term Whilst our B2B group is expected to incentive plans into other divisions also.
experience some negative impacts from the economic downturn, these should be Short term considerations signi cantly less severe than in the We completed our budgets during consumer group, providing an important August and early September, but with protection on the downside.
the rapidly changing environment, we spent October revisiting all of them DMG Information and are now running the business DMGIs overall growth story continued, against new detailed action plans.
Cash though not without some reverses of a generation is a priority, with constraints cyclical rather than structural nature, on capital expenditure and we are with the tough market conditions monitoring trading very closely.
prevailing in the property markets affecting its year on year performance.
Within A&N Media, at Associated The business made another record Newspapers we quickly took action to operating pro t and maintained the increase revenue by raising the cover impressive growth in its pro ts from price of the Daily Mail on Saturdays.
We a standing start in 1998, illustrated on have also introduced a tighter publishing page 24. programme through a whole range of measures which include controlled issue Total investment in DMGI now amounts sizes, tighter advertising to editorial to 459 million since 1996, net of ratios, reductions in the weight of paper disposals.
In 2008, Dolphin and the and more ef cient distribution.
European graduate recruitment businesses of Hobsons were sold and Regrettably we are reducing we made bolt-on acquisitions to our staff numbers, and a number of property and energy divisions and for reorganisations have been Hobsons in the education market.
implemented, for example in the advertising sales operation.
DMGIs purpose is investing in musthave high growth innovative business At Northcliffe Media, a signi cant information companies.
Common reorganisation of the business is characteristics shared by our operating underway which also involves staff companies are the provision of essential reductions.
The formation of A&N information and analysis by combining Media is facilitating a speeding up of large databases with proprietary operational synergies between software, the resulting products Associated and Northcliffe in areas delivered to customers in electronic which make up IT, purchasing, form.
DMGIs remit is to diversify DMGT technology, transportation, printing by sector, by business model and by and accounting.
We have restricted new acquisitions to Its strategy will remain focused on those which are strategic bolt-ons to investing in those companies with existing growth companies.
They will be attractive business model few in number and small in cost.
We characteristics, strong market have been running a disciplined disposal positions, growth potential and Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 11 entrepreneurial management.
Although operating pro ts of 21 million DMGI's expected growth the current turmoil in the property and compared to under 3 million in 2003. financial markets inevitably makes the 15% short-term outlook uncertain, we still Euromoneys strategy is equally We still expect DMGI to grow its expect DMGI to grow its business applicable in tough trading conditions business by around 15% per annum annually by around 15% per annum over and will continue to drive its activities in over the cycle.
the course of an economic cycle due to 2009.
Its strong cash generation means it the strength of its business models and can sustain its investment in high quality rate of product innovation.
subscription products, new events and the quality of editorial.
Euromoney will In July, we recruited Suresh Kavan continue with this strategy, even if from Thomson Reuters as my revenues come under pressure in the successor.
Suresh is a proven leader short term as customers react to with an outstanding record of success pressure on their own earnings, because in growing information businesses such we believe it will deliver excellent growth as those which make up DMGI.
He is in the medium and longer term.
The already bringing fresh thinking and focus on costs and maintaining margins energy to the portfolio, but the broad will increase.
thrust of strategy will continue unchanged.
Euromoneys acquisition strategy has been to look for small, specialist We have decided henceforth to establish transactions that complement its RMS as a separate division from DMGI, existing businesses and provide scope led by Hemant Shah, its co-founder in for strong organic growth.
No signi cant 1989 and chief executive since 1999. acquisition has been completed since RMS has been owned by DMGT for 10 October 2006, largely due to its focus on years and is an integral part of the the integration of Metal Bulletin and the Group, but its success has brought it to reduction of its debt.
It remains keen to a size which justi es standing alone as make small acquisitions, which are a new division, so from 2009, we will be easily nanced from its strong operating reporting its results separately.
cash ows, but it is unlikely to make any signi cant acquisitions over the coming Euromoney Institutional Investor 12 months.
Euromoneys strategy over the past five years has been to build a more resilient DMGT spent 27 million, acquiring further SINCE 2003, EUROMONEYS and better focused business.
This shares in Euromoney up until February to REVENUES HAVE MORE THAN DOUBLED AND SUBSCRIPTION strategy has been executed through increase its interest to 66%, following its REVENUES HAVE INCREASED increasing the proportion of revenues dilution from 69% due to the issue of THREEFOLD.
derived from subscription products: shares in 2006 to part fund the acquisition investing in products of the highest of Metal Bulletin plc.
The Board regards quality that customers will value in tough Euromoney as a core business and our times as well as good: eliminating objective is that DMGTs diluted holding products with a low margin or too high a should not fall again below 60%.
dependence on advertising: maintaining tight cost control at all times: retaining DMG World Media and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: The execution of the 2007 Strategic Plan and making selective acquisitions to continues.
This involves focusing on the accelerate that strategy.
B2B sector which is growing strongly and where the growth opportunities are The success of this strategy is greatest.
As part of this plan, we highlighted by Euromoneys 2008 accelerated the acquisition of George results.
Since 2003, revenues have Little Management GLM, which was more than doubled.
In the same period, completed at the start of the year in subscription revenues have increased order to unlock value through increased threefold and are now nearly double the ef ciencies, establishing a new business level of advertising revenues.
It has to retail B2R sector, comprising the also made a successful transition former GLM exhibitions, and the gift and from a predominantly publishing driven surf exhibitions already owned by us.
The business to one with signi cant North American home shows within the activities in events and training, and business to consumer B2C division more recently in the provision of were successfully sold in July, followed electronic information and database by the Antiques Trade Gazette early in the services.
In 2008 these accounted for new financial year.
com 2008 12 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued Our total investment in DMG World In September A&N Media was DMG World Media investment Media since 1995, net of disposals, rose established to deliver all its consumer to approximately 450 million in the newspaper and digital brands through 450m year.
In 2008, B2B continued its Associated Newspapers and Northcliffe Investment in DMG World Media successful development of its exhibitions Media, while realising the ef ciencies since 1995. and events, with Dubai, Energy and that this combination brings about.
This creates a structure for the shared services already in place, such as Consumer media printing, marketing and procurement, Our UK newspaper operations are and those to come, including finance.
bearing the brunt of the economic Further progress was made in editorial slowdown with classi ed advertising and media buying and further ef ciencies being the first to be affected earlier in came from external printing and the year.
The cost base of our national newspapers continues to adjust Associated Newspapers to a lower level of revenue growth due to VISIT WWW.
CO. UK The longer term outlook for Associated the likely migration online of display and Newspapers nationals remains robust.
classi ed revenues at varying speeds.
We continue to invest in editorial quality.
Our objective is to meet this challenge The graph on page 31 demonstrates without losing the powerful advertising the extent to which the Mail titles have response from an engaged readership, continued to increase their market given that the Mail titles have a most share, due to their strong brands.
envied position in the UK market and The value of the Mails readership is that Associated are ef cient publishers underpinned by market research of high quality publications.
Associated encapsulated in Modern Mid Britain.
is growing its enterprise revenue, We are working to create a viable selling goods and services to readers.
WE BELIEVE THAT STRONG strategy to monetise better the Mails TRUSTED BRANDS WITH DIGITAL CONTENT WILL PREVAIL IN THE readership through database marketing.
Our aim is to publish the most DIGITAL WORLD.
entertaining and informative media and we believe that strong trusted brands Associateds margins, re ecting the with premium content will ultimately national newspaper sector, remain prevail in the digital world.
In 2008, relatively low, but the programme of the companion websites were fully cost and ef ciency improvements integrated into the editorial process of started in response to the worsening our newspapers and from 1st October, trading conditions, prevailing since 2008, Mail Digital has been established the summer, aims to protect them.
Its strategy is to Progress has also been made with provide a market leading website which London Lites business plan.
The leverages the content of the Mail brands Evening Standard has established a to exploit and develop online commercial market position as the quality London opportunities, both in conjunction and daily newspaper.
Its priority remains to separate from the print operations.
stabilise revenue which will inevitably be challenging in the short term.
It As illustrated on page 2, Mail Online was continues to exercise stringent cost re-launched in May, backed by the Mails control.
The London publishing market formidable editorial resources.
Mail remains a key focus of management.
Online has access to all of the Mails editorial content and stories are broken Harmsworth Printing successfully online.
Further revenue opportunities completed its press enhancement will emerge as the Mail becomes more programme on schedule in January.
interactive, getting closer to its readers The final stage of the colour investment in Modern Mid Britain.
In 2008 the titles programme culminated with the companion websites achieved a near commissioning of full colour capability trebling of total digital revenues from at Surrey Quays.
bene ting from a fall in the price of newsprint from 1st January, were Our strategy at Associated Northcliffe contained despite the additional expense Digital AND has involved investments of full colour printing.
to increase exposure to areas of the Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 13 online advertising market pertinent to We will continue to transform DIGITAL REVENUE Associated.
First of all, in 2004, we Northcliffe into a local information acquired Jobsite which has proved network.
The three building blocks at 88m highly successful, retaining its the core of this vision are the local outstanding management team with audience, local relationships with 473% SINCE AND providing the central expertise to advertising customers and a sustainable 2004 help them grow.
We have built a operating model.
presence also in the online property, 15m motors and dating markets and through Since the year end, a new regional Teletext in travel.
We exited the utility operating structure has been switching market in March.
implemented which will allow Northcliffe to bene t from its scale in the South Associated invested 23 million in the West and in the Midlands and North of year on acquiring bolt-on value England.
In addition to its divisional cost enhancing media properties, bringing to cutting measures, we will improve 192 million the total invested in pure operational ef ciency through A&N Pure play digital investment play digital consumer businesses since Media.
Our objective is to create a 2004.
AND is one of the leading players leaner, more nimble, cost-ef cient 192m in the UK digital media industry with old organisation through further regional Total invested in pure play digital medias best set of digital consumer consolidation and through streamlining consumer businesses since 2004. assets, and its objective is to be the the business, bene ting from the A&N number one or two business in each Media restructuring.
In conjunction with its product development strategy, we are Northcliffes key online commercial investing heavily in building brand platforms in jobs, property and motors awareness.
Its advertisers have access to a powerful combination In May we created the Digital Property of media platforms when they place an Group, bringing all our property brands advertisement in print and online.
We within a single management structure.
are now in a position to demonstrate This combination provides estate agents that this combination delivers the best and new home developers with proposition to advertisers.
exposure to a larger and more differentiated audience.
The titles acquired in the South of England in July 2007 have been badly Northcliffe Media affected by the adverse conditions in We reorganised Northcliffe Media in local advertising.
We do not expect to 2006 and 2007, creating a business with make further signi cant acquisitions in strong capability as an integrated UK local media.
provider of local media services.
Its strategy is focused on meeting local DMG Radio reader and advertiser requirements DMG Radio Australia DMGRA was across a variety of media formats.
established in 1996 with a plan to build a Digital publishing is a key component.
national metropolitan FM broadcasting JOBSITE, ACQUIRED IN 2004, HAS PROVED HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL.
Overseas, it is expanding within the network through the Australian emerging economies of Central Europe governments licence auction process where there are good growth prospects with the intention of delivering an above both in print and online.
Net investment since its creation has totalled Northcliffe encountered exceptionally 200 million.
Progress has been slower challenging regional advertising than we had hoped when we embarked markets in 2008 as the impact of the upon its expansion in 2000, but was credit crunch spread across the wider made this year with the Nova network economy.
These adverse economic achieving further good growth, driven conditions look set to continue for the largely by an increase in its share of next two years and will compound the national revenue.
The Vega stations underlying structural challenges improved their ratings position, but their caused by the migration of readers and overall performance was disappointing.
DMGRA returned to pro tability and our Australian management team remains www.
com 2008 14 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued highly concentrated on the task before PRINCIPAL RISKS AND them which is to provide DMGT with a UNCERTAINTIES return on its investment.
The principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces vary across the different In the UK, our continuous participation businesses and are the focus of the Risk NOVA ACHIEVED GOOD GROWTH THIS in the commercial radio industry from Committee which I chair.
These risks YEAR, DRIVEN BY AN INCREASE IN its creation in 1973 ended when the are identi ed in the DMGT Group Risk ITS SHARE OF NATIONAL REVENUE.
board of GCap Media plc recommended Register.
The materiality of each risk is Global Radios timely offer for the assessed against a framework to company.
We realised 53 million for determine its signi cance and likelihood our 14% stake.
The Risk Register is used to determine the agenda and activity of Summary the Risk Committee.
The most material During 2008, DMGT performed inherent risks identi ed in the Risk resiliently in dif cult trading conditions Register, together with the steps taken THE GROUPS GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD and we successfully sold a number of to mitigate them, are described below.
AND DIVERSE PORTFOLIO HELP DILUTE THE IMPACT OF KEY RISKS.
Our strategy of The operation of the Risk Committee is creating a diversi ed international described on page 50. portfolio of market-leading operations across both business and consumer The geographic spread and diverse companies has provided considerable portfolio of businesses within the Group overall resilience and leaves us well help to dilute the impact of some of the positioned to deliver long-term growth.
Certain of these risks are interdependent and should not be Although the worsening economic considered in isolation.
conditions during the year had an adverse impact on the newspaper and EXPOSURE TO CHANGES IN THE property businesses, our B2B divisions ECONOMY AND CUSTOMER SPENDING continued to perform well.
The short PATTERNS term outlook remains dif cult and we General economic conditions and the are taking decisive action to defend financial health of our customers can pro tability.
However, the Groups positively or negatively affect the strong cash ow will also allow performance of all of our businesses continued selective internal investment to some degree.
The current global to ensure our businesses achieve their economic outlook, especially in the UK full potential.
and US economies, represents a signi cant risk to the Group.
In addition, Growth will be driven by businesses a signi cant proportion of our revenue which operate in growth markets: have is derived from advertising which has products that are highly innovative and historically been cyclical, with valued: market-leading positions: strong companies spending less on advertising entrepreneurial management and which in times of economic slowdown.
Our bene t from our long-term perspective.
commitment to investment in our core brands and products and the diverse RESOURCES nature of the Groups revenues helps us The Groups main resources are its to reduce the effect of these uctuations brands, people, reputation and the by maintaining the strength of our market-leading position of its major products in their markets.
In order actively to pursue our intention constantly to raise the THE IMPACT OF TECHNOLOGICAL quality and performance of our people, in AND MARKET CHANGES ON OUR February, we appointed DMGTs first ever COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Human Resources Director, Joe Our businesses operate in highly McCollum, who is making outstanding competitive environments that can be progress on a co-ordinated talent agenda subject to rapid change.
Our products across the Group.
DMGT will invest in its and services, and their means of people in order to grow.
delivery, are affected by technological innovations, changing legislation, competitor activity or changing customer behaviour.
A structural Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 15 change in the advertising markets or signi cantly affect our cost base.
CO. UK resulting in signi cant advertising The importance of travel to many of moving away from our traditional our event businesses increases the products to the internet has affected sensitivity of our results to incidents our results both positively and that may affect con dence in travel to negatively.
We have developed an speci c destinations.
internet strategy for each of our main segments of advertising revenue.
RELIANCE ON KEY MANAGEMENT AND STAFF The decentralised autonomous In order to pursue our strategy, we are culture of the Group encourages an reliant on key management and staff entrepreneurial approach to the across all our businesses.
We cannot WE HAVE DEVELOPED AN INTERNET development of new opportunities predict with certainty that we will enjoy STRATEGY FOR EACH OF OUR MAIN SEGMENTS OF ADVERTISING in response to these threats and we continued success in our recruitment REVENUE.
must continue to invest and adapt to and retention of high quality remain competitive.
Our strategy of management and creative talent.
diversi cation and willingness to take a long-term view helps us to react to The addition of a Group Human these challenges and opportunities.
Resources Director in February is helping us develop mitigating actions PENSION SCHEME SHORTFALLS and we have a number of measures We operate fide ned bene t schemes in place in each division to address for our newspaper divisions and certain this risk.
These include payment of senior executives.
Reported earnings competitive rewards, employee may be adversely affected by changes performance and turnover monitoring in our pension costs and funding and a variety of approaches to staff requirements due to lower than communication.
In addition, divisional expected investment returns, changes management are tasked with reviewing in demographics and particularly longer staff performance and with developing life expectancy.
These risks are appropriate succession plans.
considered with the scheme trustees as part of the three yearly actuarial PRICE VOLATILITY OF NEWSPRINT valuation.
A funding approach to the Newsprint represents a signi cant end of December 2010 and an asset proportion of our costs within the allocation strategy, designed to reduce newspaper divisions.
Newsprint prices and diversify the risk inherent in the are subject to volatility arising from investment portfolios, have been variations in supply and demand.
These and other proposed Generally, these variations are not large, actions, together with the introduction but from time to time increases are in April of updated fide ned contribution signi cant.
pension plans in all divisions, will help The Groups newsprint requirements are to control pension liabilities and costs monitored by the Newsprint Committee incurred by the Group.
Recent turmoil in and, where possible, long-term global equity markets has increased our arrangements are agreed with suppliers focus on this risk.
The schemes are still to limit the potential for volatility.
neutral in cash ow terms and so are not needing to sell assets.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL RISK As well as launching and building new IMPACT OF A MAJOR DISASTER OR businesses, an integral part of our OUTBREAK OF DISEASE success has, and will continue to be, the Any disaster, such as a geopolitical acquisition of businesses that event or a pandemic, such as in uenza, complement our existing products or which signi cantly affects the wider expand the scope of our expertise into environment or infrastructure in a new markets.
A number of risks are sector where the Group has material inherent within any strategy to acquire.
operations, could adversely affect the The Group generally acquires businesses Group.
Although plans and procedures with a high potential for growth in related are in place to manage the impact of markets.
The majority of acquisitions such risks, the event might affect our considered are smaller add-on ability to produce and deliver our acquisitions, which reduces the size of products, reduce the demand for them, the risk of each acquisition to the Group.
com 2008 16 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued There are risks to our ability to achieve LEGAL AND REGULATORY optimal value from disposals including DMGT businesses are subject to varying the incorrect timing of any sale, the legislation and regulation across OUR SUCCESS RELIES ON THE inability to identify and agree a deal with several jurisdictions including health ACQUISITION OF BUSINESSES THAT COMPLEMENT EXISTING PRODUCTS a purchaser, the unsuccessful and safety and employment law as well OR ENABLE EXPANSION INTO separation of a business and as more speci c regulations such as NEW MARKETS.
management of any related costs, as from the Of ce of Fair Trading and the well as the failure to realise any other Audit Bureau of Circulation ABC.
anticipated bene ts of a disposal.
Changes to this legislation or regulations could adversely affect the RELIANCE ON IT INFRASTRUCTURE results and future trading of the All of our businesses are dependent on business.
Whilst employees need to be technology to some degree.
Information responsible for their own health and systems are critical for the effective safety, they are made aware of health management and provision of services and safety and of employment rights around the Group.
Disruption to our through the employee handbook.
information technology infrastructure Controls are also in place surrounding or failure to implement new systems compliance with the ABCs regulations effectively could result in lost revenue and other regulatory bodies to which and damage our reputation.
particularly relevant in our newspaper divisions which are in the process of TREASURY RISK implementing a new and shared finance There are a number of risks arising system.
Dedicated project management from the Groups Treasury operations teams are used to manage the risk in including currency exchange rate any change project and business uctuations impacting on the Groups continuity plans are in place in each reported earnings, liquidity risk, division to protect existing systems.
interest rate risk and debt levels.
The current problems in global financial INFORMATION SECURITY markets as a result of the credit crunch Information security has become an and banking crisis heighten the risk in important issue in recent years as a this area.
In addition the treasury OUR HIGH QUALITY MANAGEMENT result of several high pro le losses of function within DMGT undertakes AND CREATIVE TALENT ARE KEY TO data.
We suffered our own information high value transactions and therefore OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS.
security incident during the year which there is inherently a risk of treasury has increased the focus on, and fraud or error.
attention given to, this important issue.
Information security risks are managed TAX RISK by divisional management teams and a The Group operates within many Group-wide policy has been set.
Any jurisdictions: our earnings are therefore future breach in our data security could subject to taxation at differing rates have a harmful impact on our business across these jurisdictions.
endeavour to manage our tax affairs in an ef cient manner, due to an ever more CLIMATE CHANGE complex international tax environment The risks associated with climate there will always be a level of change include the introduction of or uncertainty when provisioning for our A REVIEW OF THE IMPACT OF increase in legislation and regulation tax liabilities.
There is also a risk of tax CLIMATE CHANGE HAS BEEN of the environmental impact of our laws being amended by authorities in PERFORMED.
In the longer term, the the different jurisdictions in which we physical impact of climate change operate which would have an adverse could affect our business locations, effect on our financial results.
Working distribution routes or third party with divisional management and suppliers.
A Group wide review of external experts we have a team of the impact of climate change was in-house specialists who review all tax performed in 2008 to identify the key arrangements within the Group and risks and opportunities for the Group keep abreast of changing legislation.
presented by future climate change.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 17 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE This led to considerable volatility in Share price performance Share performance remains important the price which fell as low as 2.59 in to us as a measure that our strategy July, before recovering somewhat to 74% and prospects are understood.
More recently, Our share price performance time our strong historic operating we have out-performed our peers since 1988, relative to the FTSE performance has been recognised by due perhaps to an appreciation of our all share index.
the market, as can be seen from the diversi cation strategy and to the graph below and on page 61. higher quality of our consumer national media franchises.
The price of our widely traded A WE WILL TAKE ADVANTAGE OF Ordinary Non-Voting shares started CAPITAL STRUCTURE OPPORTUNITIES TO INCREASE the financial year at 6.30, having fallen The Company has not made a capital call MARKET SHARE, TO LAUNCH NEW PRODUCTS AND TO LEVERAGE rapidly since the summer of 2007.
It fell on its shareholders for 75 years.
Capital THE STRENGTHS OF THE GROUPS below 5 on the announcement of our growth is funded by long-term debt and DIVERSE PORTFOLIO.
2006 7 results in November 2007 by retained earnings.
Since the late on fears about the health of the UK 1980s, our strategy has been to raise the economy.
At this point, our perception dividend in real terms.
Since 2002, the of the value of the Group, based on Boards policy has been to seek to our forecasts, compared to that of the increase the dividend each year by 5% to market, led us to purchase our own 7% in real terms, as long as it continues shares at an average price of 4.75.
In to have con dence in the Groups hindsight, we were too early as the share long-term prospects and financial price continued to fall as investors shied health.
This year the Board increased the away from exposure to consumer dividend by 2.4%, considering it prudent advertising and to the financial and in the current circumstances to hold the property sectors.
final dividend at last years level, but it is maintaining its policy of increasing the Over the last year, there has been dividend in real terms over the cycle.
As unprecedented stock lending of DMGTs shown below, the compound dividend shares, along with other cyclical media growth over the last 20 years is 11% in companies, which rose from its normal nominal terms, which is an increase of level of below 5% to 16% in the year.
Compound dividend growth DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 2008 PENCE INFLATION INDICATOR 1988 2008 11% 16 Compound dividend growth over 14 the last 20 years.
com 2008 18 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued The Company spent 74 million on of ce and an audit of energy and water CO EFFICIENCY 2 EMISSIONS PER REVENUE buying its A Ordinary shares and a consumption at its eight UK print plants CO M REVENUE 2 further 14 million in matching which are responsible for a signi cant 53 52 obligations to provide shares to minority proportion of DMGTs consumption.
51 shareholders of RMS who had acquired This is currently in progress.
A main them as a result of exercising their aim of the audit is to identify potential stock options under its scheme.
opportunities for saving energy, thereby Purchases were opportunistic, rather reducing the Groups environmental than part of a buy back programme.
Meanwhile, Harmsworth Since February, no further purchases Printing has been making strides to cut have been made and none are planned water use, following an earlier study.
in the foreseeable future as the Group concentrates on reducing its debt.
DMGT and our employees 06 07 08 Retention of staff bene ts from our THE GROUPS ENERGY EFFICIENCY RELATIONSHIPS WITH autonomous divisional culture and from HAS IMPROVED DUE TO THE INTRODUCTION OF A NEW STAKEHOLDERS, OTHER THAN our provision of the appropriate form of PRODUCTION FACILITY AT DIDCOT.
SHAREHOLDERS pension provision to all our employees.
Environmental, employee, social and DMGT has kept open its final salary community issues are taken seriously pension schemes in the UK newspaper by the Company, as set out in the divisions where people tend to stay Corporate Responsibility Report on with us for a long time and where the pages 42 to 44.
DMGT also has a average age is higher.
In the other dedicated Corporate Responsibility divisions, which are more international section on its website which is updated and where employees are generally regularly.
The Board has policies in younger, we believe fide ned contribution place on the environment and on equal pension plans are more appropriate.
opportunities for employees, as well as on whistleblowing and health and safety.
The number of employees has risen All of these policies are established and from 17,296 at the beginning of the year set out on the DMGT extranet.
to 17,524 at the end, an increase of 1%.
The number of employees within DMGT and the environment Northcliffes UK operations fell by a DMGT employees We recognise that our businesses have further 209 4% as a consequence of an impact on the environment through its reorganisation programme.
1% our printing operations, of ces, In 2008 the number of DMGT transport and other activities.
We are Social and community issues employees rose by 1%.
committed to ensuring that, where Whilst the Group does not have formal practicable, any adverse impact on the policies in this area, community environment from our activities will be involvement is integral to our business minimised.
The major environmental as well as to the personal motivation of impacts arise in our printing operations our employees.
We donate money, time where we focus on energy ef ciency.
and in-kind donations such as radio We have gathered data over recent airtime and Teletext pages, and staff years in order to monitor the Groups actively give time to areas including use of energy.
Whilst there has been an fundraising and trusteeships.
increase in the overall amount of energy used during the year, the Groups energy Information about persons with whom ef ciency has improved due to the the company has contractual or other introduction of a new production facility arrangements essential to the at Didcot.
companys business Group companies undertake business COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IS Another area we focus on is our Carbon with a range of customers and INTEGRAL TO OUR BUSINESS.
We started to measure this suppliers.
There is no dependence on from 2006 and the graph shown to the any particular contractual arrangement, left illustrates that the Groups other than those disclosed in Note 37 emissions have fallen.
We recently to the Accounts as regards ink and embarked on a new energy printing, where arrangements are in management and abatement place until 2015 and 2022 respectively programme, commissioning specialist to obtain competitive prices and to consultants to conduct an energy secure supply.
ef ciency exercise at DMGTs head Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued 19 As regards the Groups principal For DMG World Media, the economic Our focus is on managing the Group commodity, newsprint, arrangements climate will have an impact on the rate through the current dif cult trading are made annually with a range of of growth for certain exhibitions.
There conditions, based on an assumption suppliers to ensure the security of are continuing growth prospects in of no improvement during 2009.
At the supply at the best available prices, others with particular strength in the same time, we will take advantage of having regard to the need for the Middle East and in Oil and Gas events.
opportunities to increase market share, necessary quality.
Particularly in Generally, we are seeing strength in to launch new products and to leverage the light of its strategy to create a market leading shows, and we are the strengths of the Groups diverse diversi ed international portfolio of fortunate that most of our larger portfolio.
DMGTs long-term strategy media businesses, the Group is not shows are in that position.
remains in place and we are con dent dependent on any suppliers of other that the Group will emerge well from commodities, nor for its revenue on Our B2B divisions will bene t from the the current economic downturn.
Distribution strengthening US dollar with each five arrangements are in place to ensure the cent rise in the average :$ exchange Martin Morgan delivery of newspapers to retail outlets.
rate estimated to improve full year Chief Executive pro ts by approximately 4 million.
TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO AFFECT THE OUTLOOK Within Associated Newspapers, October The new financial year has started with has seen total advertising revenues, very challenging economic conditions, including display, down by 10%, but it is particularly in the UK.
Our business to dif cult to predict trading performance business divisions are generally for the rest of the first quarter, with even continuing to trade well, with the bene t less visibility thereafter.
A plan has been of signi cant subscription revenues, but implemented to improve revenues and to our UK consumer media businesses are reduce costs within Associated, including being affected.
As a consequence, we a Saturday cover price increase for the are taking decisive action to defend their Daily Mail and the combining of some pro tability and, more generally, to functions within the Mail titles.
focus on cash generation and debt At Northcliffe Media, UK advertising reduction.
Measures across the Group trends have deteriorated further since are worth in the region of 100 million the year end, particularly in the property and will offset downward pressure on and recruitment sectors, with October advertising and upward pressure on revenues down on the prior year by 28%.
Property revenues were 52% below the prior year and recruitment revenues For DMG Information, whilst much were down 37%.
The gloomy economic uncertainty remains in its markets, outlook points to extremely challenging its businesses are well positioned to conditions for our key advertising deliver strong growth both in an upturn markets throughout the coming year.
and through the medium term.
DMGIs As well as the implementation of the companies have robust business new regional operating structure, we models and the range of new product have reviewed all areas of expenditure developments underway underpins their and are in the process of removing growth opportunities.
signi cant costs from Northcliffe during the coming year.
Euromoneys current trading is in line with its expectations, but in such volatile In addition to the divisional cost cutting markets it is dif cult to predict how well measures within Associated and sales will hold up beyond the first Northcliffe, we have also established quarter.
Octobers revenues were ahead A&N Media, a structure to share of last year and forward revenues for services across both divisions and to the first quarter also are ahead of the improve operational ef ciency.
same time last year, but sales for the past eight weeks have shown signs of At DMG Radio Australia, we expect weakening.
Nearly 40% of its revenues Nova further to improve its reach into come from subscriptions which continue its target demographic of all listeners to grow and will provide Euromoney with aged 18-39 and we look for continued substantial stability.
