Section 1 Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DRIVING STRATEGY FORWARD DESPITE A DIFFICULT MARKET Our ongoing investment in product design, quality and value, plus the differentiation of our exclusive designer ranges, has resulted in market share gains both overall and for each major clothing category and enabled us to deliver a creditable sales performance given the retail climate.
Review of 2008 1.3 per cent, as many customers sought to trade up to the quality and durability these products oer.
Gross transaction value of 2,336 million was 1.3 per cent higher than last year, with a contribution from new space osetting a like-for-like sales fall You can read more about Designers at Debenhams in the insert on page 17. of 0.9 per cent.
EBITDA of 269 million resulted in profit before tax of 110.1 million after adding back 4.2 million of amortisation of capitalised SPACE EXPANSION bank fees, which was in line with market expectations.
Gross margin was Expanding the store portfolio continues to be a key driver of growth, maintained at the same level as last year.
Net debt stood at 994 million at despite the prevailing economic conditions.
Although 23 additional stores the year end, an improvement of 22.5 million over the prior year.
We excluding re-sites have been opened in the past four years, Debenhams gained market share in all major clothing categories and our total clothing continues to be relatively immature in terms of store numbers.
share increased by 0.3 per cent.
Seven new department stores opened in 2008 plus three re-sited In last years annual report we outlined four principal growth strategies.
department stores and one new Desire store.
We remain committed to Despite the dicult macroeconomic environment, we continue to believe the Desire small store format but believe that the higher returns delivered that these growth strategies are the right ones for the business.
We have by department stores mean that we should allocate capital into that added one more strategic strand during the course of 2008, deleveraging format first in order to deliver greater shareholder value.
The performance the balance sheet.
of all new stores opened during the year has at least met our expectations and in many cases exceeded them in a dicult market.
PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN, QUALITY AND VALUE FOR MONEY We are able to achieve excellent returns on capital from opening new The growth in market share in all major clothing categories achieved stores and they are likely to be an important driver of shareholder value in during the year is largely a result of product improvement and innovation.
In 2008 return on capital was some 56 per cent dened as first Overall, our total clothing market share growth was 0.3 per cent.
year store EBITDA as a percentage of net capital investment including working capital.
These superior returns stem from improved operating Starting with the Autumn Winter collections which arrived in stores in performance and disciplined and eective capital expenditure.
September 2007, our products have oered customers improved design, quality and value at all price points.
We have done this by increasing the The new department store opened in Livingston on 16 October 2008.
A design content and using better fabrics and adding what we term further four department stores, two Desire stores and one major store blindingly obvious quality cluessuch as contrast linings and facings and extension are due to open in 2009.
These include the 109,000 sq ft agship superior buttons and trims.
At the same time we have held prices and in store at Westeld London which opens on 30 October 2008.
Further out, some cases, particularly Menswear, reduced prices to ensure they deliver whilst there have been a few instances of retail developments being appropriate value.
delayed or even cancelled as property developers are aected by the credit crunch, we do not believe this to be a threat to our strategy.
Designers at Debenhams is an important point of dierence.
In 2008, designer ranges were some of the best performers and designer sales You can read more about store openings, in particular the Liverpool increased by 8 per cent, ahead of gross transaction value growth of agship store, and the store pipeline in the insert on page 11.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 ROB TEMPLEMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE Section 1 Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW IMPROVING THE STORE ENVIRONMENT AND CUSTOMER 2009 preview SHOPPING EXPERIENCE Customer research has told us that the key driver of customer loyalty is In 2009, our focus will be on managing the business in what is widely product range, followed by price and quality.
However, we found that expected to be a dicult economic and retail environment.
Historically, although we have one of the largest product ranges on the high street, department stores have been fairly steady performers through the this did not always translate into positive customer perception.
In short, economic cycle as they benefit from the resilience of departments such as our product range was becoming too big and customers in fact want health and beauty, the ability to ex the use of space within stores and a edited choice.
We have sought to address this by oering fewer, bigger brands which Whilst we would expect to benefit from at least some of these in the cover the complete spectrum of how customers dress from casual current cycle, we still need to manage through the downturn proactively weekends through to work and on to special occasions.
This has resulted in a number of ways.
in a 15 per cent reduction in stock options which translates into a 10.5 per cent reduction in same store stock density and, at the same time, better First, we must recognise how customers needs change in a period of availability of bestselling lines.
Working at tighter stock levels has benets downturn and then ensure that we meet those changing needs.
beyond customer satisfaction as it results in working capital Customers are likely to become far more discerning in their purchasing, improvements and hopefully in lower markdown which should feed being careful about their clothing purchases and looking for items that through to gross margin.
You can read more about how we have improved can be worn in multiple ways for multiple seasons rather than fast fashion the customer experience in the insert on page 23. items with limited longevity.
At the same time, customers are apt to treat themselves to small indulgences in order to make them feel better.
We We have continued to make progress in refurbishing core stores.
Having believe our unique mix of products, ranging from everyday essentials at refurbished 18 stores in the first half of this year, in the second half we competitive prices to the aordable luxury of Designers at Debenhams slowed the programme in order to manage the inevitable disruption to enables us to meet changing shopping habits.
Providing value at every sales caused during the refurbishment period.
As a result, a total of 19 price point through the product improvement measures described above stores were retted during 2008.
It remains our intention to refurbish the will be key.
remaining 40 or so core stores over the next few years, with the pace depending on the retail climate.
Secondly, we need to ensure the appropriate allocation of resources within the business.
This involves the tight management of stock, costs We are committed to improving the environment in every store and all and capital expenditure.
We must be alert to cost price ination in the stores have benefited from new J by Jasper Conran, Star by Julien supply chain and proactively manage the mitigating factors ensuring Macdonald and Collection shop ts so that the merchandising of these right product, right country, currency hedging, optimising container ll brands complements the work done on the products.
and costs, having the right mix of landed and FOB suppliers so that we can continue to deliver superior value to customers at the same time as GROWING OUR ONLINE BUSINESS AND OTHER protecting our margin.
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS Our online business, www.
com, continues to grow strongly Thirdly, we will invest prudently for the future in higher returning projects, and we believe that within a few years it will be our single largest store.
Online sales increased by 60.8 per cent in 2008 and visitor numbers were up by 51.9 per cent.
You can read more about the development of the Finally, we must ensure our balance sheet and cost base continue to be online business in the insert on page 25. managed robustly so that the Company can emerge from the dicult trading environment in the strongest possible position.
Other technology investments also started to bear fruit in 2008.
The radio frequency RF network is helping to improve the customer experience by CURRENT TRADING giving us more hours to invest in customer service, ensuring clarity of The first few weeks of the new financial year have been characterised by pricing and improving the store environment by reducing the need for unprecedented turmoil in financial markets, attracting massive media promotional signage.
At the same time, RF can deliver a positive impact interest, which has in turn heightened concerns of customers about their on gross margin, particularly in sale periods when more product is sold own financial security.
This has undoubtedly had a negative impact on the at first markdown.
Against this background, sales for the six weeks to 11 October 2008 were 1.0 per cent lower than last year.
Like-forDELEVERAGING THE BALANCE SHEET like sales for this period were down 4.2 per cent on the previous year.
As the economic and retail climate has deteriorated over the past year, These comparisons are against a strong opening six weeks last year when market sentiment towards Debenhams capital structure has weakened total sales grew by 3.9 per cent and like-for-like sales by 2.1 per cent.
Gross and the level of debt on our balance sheet appears to be negatively margin for the six-week period was 50bp higher than last year and gross impacting valuations of the Company.
We therefore believe that in order cash margin was at.
to maximise shareholder value in the current environment, it is important that leverage should be taken o the agenda for Debenhams as soon as ROB TEMPLEMAN possible.
A number of actions have been undertaken to achieve this: they Chief Executive are described in more detail in the Operating Review on page 21.
21 October 2008 8 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 MAIN IMAGE St. George by Duer beige cardigan with diamond detail, Mantaray chocolate T-shirt, Mantaray blue shirt, Rocha.
60.8% 19 in 2008 INCREASE IN DIRECT STORES MODERNISED SALES Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
