212833 DIAGEO REPORT P1-15 5 9 08 10:23 Page 6 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FOCUS ON DELIVERY CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR BRANDS CONTINUE TO BENEFIT FROM MARKETING SPEND EFFICIENCIES AND OUR GLOBAL SCALE.
PAUL WALSH, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 11 10 9 1 8 7 6 5 2 4 3 2008 NET SALES BY CATEGORY 1 SCOTCH 28% 2 BEER 21% 3 VODKA 9% 4 READY TO DRINK 9% 5 LIQUEUR 6% 6 WHISKEY 6% 7 WINE 6% 8 RUM 5% 9 GIN 3% 10 TEQUILA 3% 11 OTHER 4% 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P1-15 5 9 08 10:23 Page 7 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 This has been another year of significant progress for Diageo.
Our focus on delivering consistent and sustainable organic growth has resulted in LIVING OUR VALUES Employee survey responses % a strong performance across the business, despite increasingly challenging trading conditions.
We have delivered 9% operating profit growth together 90 with a volume increase of 3% and a 7% increase in net sales, on an organic 85 basis.
In addition we continued to return cash to shareholders and 80 maintained an efficient group capital structure appropriate for current 75 credit conditions.
70 65 Our brands continue to benefit from marketing spend efficiencies and 60 our global scale, as we build upon our position as the worlds leading premium drinks business.
Diageos range includes 8 out of the top 2005 2006 2007 2008 20 premium spirits brands source: Impact Databank.
In the year just Passionate about consumers Be the best Valuing each other completed we successfully delivered a solid performance across our Proud of what we do Freedom to succeed global and local priority brands.
Under the direction of strong regional and in-market management teams, Within our brands, both J&B and Johnnie Walker delivered growth by our business operations have been agile in changing local market conditions building presence in emerging markets where we are seeing increased and consumer trends.
In North America our premium brand positioning demand for scotch.
Smirnoff, the worlds number one premium spirit, helped drive volume and net sales growth.
This was supported by our benefited from new advertising campaigns and the introduction of broad exposure to categories and price points.
Diageo Europe delivered an Smirnoff Black in a number of markets.
Captain Morgan continued its improvement in overall growth driven by Eastern Europe and Russia and strong performance, especially in North America.
Great advertising the outperformance of Guinness in Great Britain and Ireland.
Our relatively campaigns and pricing fuelled the strong growth of Guinness as it new reporting region Asia Pacific performed well despite the impact of the outperformed the beer category in Great Britain and Ireland.
Importantly loss of our licence to trade in Korea for part of the year and investment in in current market conditions, we managed to successfully increase our regional business infrastructure.
Diageo International had another very prices across our markets and improve operating margin despite the strong year as our businesses have capitalised on consumers in both Latin tight cost environment.
America and Africa trending to more premium and international products.
The strong performance of our beer brands in Africa drove growth, while During the year we added three outstanding premium labels to our Latin America benefited from strong marketing campaigns, which supported collection of brands.
Our newly formed company with the Nolet Group price increases, particularly in Brazil, Mexico and Central America.
gives us the opportunity to market and distribute Ketel One vodka worldwide.
This agreement extends our platform in the fast-growing Sustainability of supply was a key focus as we continued to invest in the super premium vodka segment in North America and beyond.
Our business ahead of growing emerging market demand, in particular for our agreement to market and distribute Zacapa, widely regarded as the one scotch brands.
In Scotland, our grain distillery at Cameronbridge and our of the finest rums in the world, and our acquisition of Rosenblum Cellars, packaging hall at Shieldhall have seen the start of expansion initiatives, a premium Californian winemaker, provide us with a broader offering in including the commissioning of a biomass facility at Cameronbridge.
Organic growth remains a primary focus.
We continue We have also made progress in the construction of our high capacity to look at selective acquisitions and partnerships with brands and malt distillery at Roseisle.
During the last 12 months we have undertaken companies that can benefit from Diageos global scale and consistent a comprehensive assessment of our brewing operations.
This has allowed track record in brand stewardship.
us to develop our strategy to support the growth and development of our global beer business.
This development underpins the a650 million capital investment in a new world-class brewing centre of excellence in Ireland, which we announced in May 2008.
The proposal, which is expected to be self-financing, would see the upgrade and consolidation of the St Jamess 4 1 Gate brewery and the commission of a new state-of-the-art brewing facility.
Anticipated to be completed in 2013, it will be Diageos biggest brewery and the largest in Ireland.
3 As we look forward we recognise the significant challenges of the year to come.
However, the breadth and diversity of our total beverage alcohol 5 business, our geographical spread, and the strength of our outstanding 2 brands, gives us confidence that we can remain resilient against the outlook of a challenging global economy.
2008 OPERATING PROFIT BY REGION Paul S Walsh, Chief executive 1 NORTH AMERICA 907m 2 EUROPE 720m 3 INTERNATIONAL 593m 4 ASIA PACIFIC 170m For more information please visit us online at Excludes corporate operating costs www.
