qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 5 05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW This strong performance reects good growth in our core operations, together with benets from acquisitions made in the period.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Introduction Valuing our people I would like to begin my first overview as Chief Executive, The business continues to grow thanks to the dedication by recognising the tremendous contribution Peter Hindley of all our staff.
Irrespective of their role within the business, made during his 17 years as Chief Executive of this business.
they are focused on delivering client service excellence.
I am delighted that Peter agreed to become Non-Executive Chairman, as this will allow the Group to continue to benefit Another successful year has allowed the Group to make from his vast experience of the industry in the coming discretionary payments totalling 1.3 million to permanent years.
This experience was clearly recognised by our major members of staff not covered by any bonus scheme, an shareholders, who were consulted and supported Peters increase of 8 per cent over that paid in the previous period.
In addition, we continue to maintain our final salary pension Delivering profitable growth scheme, keeping it open to new employees.
The scheme Underlying operating profits which excludes profit on continues to show a healthy surplus on an accounting sale of xed assets increased 9 per cent to 52.1 million basis and the most recent actuarial valuation, as at 5 April 2007: 47.6 million.
Operating profits increased 12 per 2008, also showed the scheme to be fully funded.
Building on our reputation, relationships This strong performance reects good growth in our core and responsibilities operations, together with benets from acquisitions made Our strategy has been consistent for many years and has in the period.
proved to be very effective.
At its core is the service we provide to our customers.
We help bereaved people at a This solid operational performance continues to be sad time by providing a compassionate service whether underpinned by our funding strategy, which helps to through our funeral businesses, our crematoria, or our improve returns to our shareholders.
The result of this focus is that over 70 per cent of our business is generated by Building value for shareholders previous experience, recommendation and reputation.
The Group continues to be very cash generative.
I believe that the Group makes the best use of that cash We continue to work on improving our already very high for the benefit of its shareholders, by using it for three levels of service.
main purposes, in addition to the traditional payment of dividends.
First, the business generates sufficient cash to fund continued programmes of renewal and improvement to its infrastructure.
This helps our staff to provide the best possible service.
For many years now, we have invested signicantly in improving our locations and maintaining a modern eet of hearses, limousines and other vehicles.
Second, the stability of our cash ows enables us to maintain an efficient balance sheet with long term xed rate debt.
Importantly, the principal of this debt amortises over its life and is scheduled to be fully repaid by 2031.
Third, we have historically been able to finance acquisitions of funeral locations from internally generated cash ows.
These acquisitions deliver good incremental shareholder value from the outset.
