Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 9 Chief Executive Officers review Brett Dawson Revenue up 19.5% $ 4.5b 1 Earnings per share up 28.3% to Operating profit up 39.1% 7.7 US cents $ 182.2m Overview Operating margin % The Groups performance over the past financial year has been excellent, with strong revenue 1 5 growth of 19.5%.
We have maintained our gross margin and driven operating profit growth of 39.1% to an operating margin of 4.0% - a position that puts us firmly on track to achieve our 4 medium term goal of 5% for the Group.
The benefits have manifested themselves in significant EPS growth of 28.3%.
In addition to our improved financial results, our cash generation during 3 the period was excellent, driven by disciplined working capital management.
2 Our strong financial results are testament to the ongoing success of the Groups strategy, as evident in the outstanding rate of Services growth, which hit 19.5% this year.
This now reflects 1 a compound annual growth rate of 22% over the past three years and is a significant and resounding achievement for the Group.
0 05 06 07 08 We achieved growth across all of our businesses.
In our largest business, the Systems Before exceptional items Integration SI business, which accounts for 77.1% of revenues and operates in 47 countries around the world under the Dimension Data and Datacraft brands, we grew by 18.8%, 5 evidencing a growing market share and strengthening competitive position.
The performance was underscored by the achievement of a number of significant awards.
4 Within our regional businesses, Internet Solutions and Plessey, both of which address the 3 growing telecommunications sectors in Africa, achieved strong growth.
In Express Data, our Australian distribution business, the rate of growth was more muted.
2 Strong geographic performances in all regions reflect the improving robustness of our 1 business model.
Accelerated revenue growth was evident in all regions, but the emerging markets of Asia and Middle East and Africa led the Group with outstanding revenue growth 0 of 23.9% and 27.1%, respectively.
Operating profit improved across all geographies, with an exceptional improvement of 108.5% in Europe.
Australia and Middle East and Africa posted particularly healthy improvements in their operating margins.
2.1 2.8 3.5 4.0 10 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Chief Executive Officers review continued The Group has enjoyed robust growth over the past few years and even in the current market We continue to see our clients conditions there are still a number of key areas within which clients are willing, and continuing, sourcing strategies evolve and to invest.
We continue to see our clients sourcing strategies evolve and believe that the believe that the present market present market conditions will prove particularly conducive to the benefits of Multisourcing, conditions will prove particularly whereby clients can outsource specific elements of their IT environment to best-of-breed conducive to the benefits of IT service providers while retaining other IT functions in-house.
Over the past few years, we Multisourcing, whereby clients have been investing in positioning ourselves for these opportunities and, during the period, can outsource specific elements we have started to see signs of early wins across several geographies and are optimistic of of their IT environment to bestfuture growth opportunities.
of-breed IT service providers while retaining other IT functions Deploying technology which can drive cost reduction opportunities for our clients is currently in-house.
a real opportunity for Dimension Data.
During FY2008 we have developed and introduced a number of services that play to this focus, including ITSM, performance optimisation, virtualisation and power and cooling assessment services, all of which are gaining market traction.
Likewise, data centre consolidation, technology refresh projects, security consolidation and server and storage virtualisation remain strong drivers in the move towards cost and capacity optimisation and the focus of significant market interest.
In addition, many of these cost saving technologies require network re-architecture and optimisation: a fast and long-lasting return on investment makes them a priority investment for many clients.
Over and above network investment being a pre-requisite for a myriad of cost saving technologies, the network itself remains an integral, mission critical component for the majority of enterprises.
Security is proving to be equally insulated from budgetary caution: businesses simply cannot afford to have security breaches, data leaks and compliance failures.
Companies may now be forced to make breaches public and explain their redress, a costly exercise in both monetary and reputational terms.
Compliance can actually prove to be a business pre-requisite, particularly in the retail industry, and will often unlock IT spend with considerable speed.
Security is the fastest growing line of business year on year within Dimension Data and we The Group has enjoyed robust envisage continued market opportunities going forward.
growth over the past few years and even in the current The push for increased operational efficiencies, cost reductions and environmental responsibility market conditions there are still has also spawned a substantial client interest in the capabilities of visual communications a number of key areas within technologies.
These technologies reduce the need to outlay expensive travel and time which clients are willing, and resources, as well as minimising environmental impact, and have demonstrated tremendous continuing, to invest.
The successful execution of our business strategy driving profitable growth, offering a world class client experience, delivering operational excellence to our clients, and investing in our people and culture is clearly paying dividends.
The recognition that the Group has received from its clients, vendors and employees, coupled with a proven ability to meet our commitments to all three, provides us with confidence as we head into less certain economic times.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 11 Strengthening our position We regard our clients, our people and our partners as the barometers by which we measure Group overall employee satisfaction score our operational performance - an approach that continues to be a cornerstone of the Groups success.
Dimension Data currently holds a significant number of partner awards, 4 an achievement which underscores our partners recognition of the breadth of our technical expertise and experience.
We are particularly proud of our recent positioning, by leading 3 1 industry analyst Gartner, in their Magic Quadrant for Managed and Professional Network 2 Service Providers, Worldwide, Eric Goodness et.
22 August 2008, which examined 2 14 vendors of IT services for business communication systems worldwide.
We believe the recognition of our ability to execute and completeness of vision is testament to the Groups 1 commitment to delivering operational excellence to our clients, and proves that we are firmly on track with the execution and delivery of our Services strategy within the Systems 0 Integration business.
Our extensive experience providing integrated unified communications 05 06 07 08 solutions has also garnered us strong recognition from the industry.
The Group has always articulated the pivotal importance of investing in our employees.
We strongly believe that our people are, and must continue to be, a key differentiator for the business.
In enabling, developing and retaining excellence in our people we are able to pass the benefits of these attributes on to our clients.
Our continued investments in training and development have earned industry recognition, specifically for our Internet Protocol Technology IPT initiatives.
The Groups improved financial performance comes against a Our annual employee satisfaction survey shows its fourth year of improvement, and the backdrop of ongoing investment retention of senior leadership within the Group is particularly strong, with an attrition of just across the Systems Integration 4%.
The past year has seen continued focus on expanding our employees accreditations business, which will enable us to across the board: we now hold almost 2,000 Microsoft certifications and well over a thousand build for further future success.
Information Technology Information Library ITIL certifications.
We have also increased our Cisco certifications by 20% over the past year, which now include 6 Master Certifications and 295 CCIEs.
The Groups improved financial performance comes against a backdrop of ongoing investment across the Systems Integration business, which will enable us to build for further future success.
To achieve service delivery excellence and to improve the client experience across the services lifecycle, we have made systems, people and process related investments.
To improve the integration and efficiency of our Global Services Operating Architecture GSOA we are in the process of implementing a globally consistent IT service management platform to enhance service delivery to our clients, create new revenue generating opportunities for the Group and improve our operational and cost efficiency.
The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent s data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the data of this Offering Memorandum and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
The Gartner Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 22 August 2008 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission.
The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation of a marketplace at and for a specific time period.
It depicts Gartners analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as defined by Gartner.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors placed in the Leaders quadrant.
The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specific guide to action.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
3.58 3.71 3.79 3.82 12 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Chief Executive Officers review continued We have invested in a Group wide re-launch of Uptime, our maintenance service offering.
We have introduced a new standard platform, systems and process for this offering in order to sell Uptime more profitably, increase contract revenue, reduce price churn and, at the same time, improve our clients experience.
Our Uptime service is an annuity revenue stream and success here improves the resilience of our business model.
The Group has also invested in a Services International Project Office to accelerate and co-ordinate our response to global opportunities.
We are driving towards total alignment with ITIL, an industry best practice framework for IT service delivery, across our services offerings.
In addition to investment in the consistency of our operational delivery, we have also made investments in our go to market offerings to help orientate the business to a more services led approach.
Our Secure Network Infrastructure Assessment SNIA identifies which hardware and software is in, or approaching, end-of-support and gives organisations the opportunity to update and standardise technology to ensure manufacturer support.
This consultative approach can also help us identify further opportunities for infrastructure improvement within the organisation.
Our Unified Communications Development Model UCDM, which assists clients in building a strategic and operational roadmap to implement a unified communications strategy, has received significant industry and client recognition and helped enhance our reputation and credibility across our client base as thought leaders.
We have seen similar strong interest and lead opportunities in our IT Service Management ITSM offering, which is a methodology driven, consultative approach to mapping service maturity.
To address the business critical importance of network performance we developed the Network Performance Optimisation Assessment, which enables enterprises to extract maximum value and efficiency from their network.
Our Power and Cooling Assessment has been developed to help organisations reduce their power requirements by optimising their infrastructure.
In an era of spiralling energy and fuel costs, as well as increased environmental concerns and obligations, this service addresses yet another facet of our clients cost reduction objectives.
Together with our existing services, these newer initiatives demonstrate the evolution of the Groups offerings to meet emerging and changing market trends.
The service provider The service provider market - which incorporates telecommunications providers, mobile market - which incorporates operators, internet service providers ISPs and cable operators represents roughly 26% telecommunications providers, of the Groups revenue.
The Systems Integration arm of the Dimension Data business is mobile operators, Internet service well positioned in this vertical and has ample opportunity to assist service providers in the providers ISPs and cable deployment and ongoing management of their IT infrastructure.
operators represents roughly In addition to our Systems Integration offerings, the Group has exposure to the service 26% of the Groups revenue.
provider market in Middle East and Africa through Plessey and Internet Solutions.
Across the continent, the demand for access to telecommunication services is accelerating.
Plessey Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 13 is strongly positioned to take advantage of the growth opportunities as their offerings are focused at telecommunication infrastructure solutions.
Internet Solutions is a next generation communications provider that is particularly well positioned in South Africa and, as markets continue to deregulate and expand, increasingly positioned across the continent.
We believe the business is strategically well placed within this evolving environment and, consequently, we have been investing and enhancing our offerings and capabilities.
Outlook Over the last few years we have enjoyed tremendous momentum and consistent improvement We believe that the long as a business.
The growth achieved has consistently been at rates greater than the market, term fundamentals of the IT indicating that we have been building our competitive strength and gaining market share from market segments in which we the competition.
We believe that the long term fundamentals of the IT market segments in compete are favourable and which we compete remain favourable and have good growth prospects.
The FY2008 performance has been delivered against a weakening macro-economic environment.
Despite the evident health, strength and ongoing improvement of our business, the current macro-economic conditions are a lot less favourable than before, and we expect that they will remain both fragile and uncertain for several quarters.
Currency swings and the strength of the US dollar against most of our operating currencies are also likely to impact our reported results in the FY2009 financial year.
The global crisis of confidence which started in the financial markets is now undermining demand in most industries.
Within this environment we expect the IT infrastructure market to be slower in general and that we will be affected accordingly.
To counter the impact of these circumstances we will be prioritising our client engagement above all else and have implemented a conservative plan to manage our overhead base.
We have tightened our investment and expenditure programme to match our view of short term market conditions and will continue to re-evaluate and adjust these on an ongoing basis.
Our focus over the next six months will be on securing opportunities available in the market.
We will balance this with a prudent expenditure and investment profile and tight cash management.
The strength of the Groups balance sheet, our market leading positioning and offerings, and our expansive geographic footprint provide us with confidence that we will successfully endure this market downturn and emerge in an enhanced competitive position.
Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer 14 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008
