06 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 My first priority when I joined the business was to Chief Executives really understand what our customers want.
It is only by using the voice of the customers in everything Statement we do that we will succeed.
From an outside perspective, we should be making good returns for shareholders and growing our profits, because we have market leading positions with great brands in a number of the most important markets across Europe.
However, this is not the case.
Despite all the advantages of being a market leader, only some of our businesses performed to a good standard last year.
Elkjp continues to lead across the Nordic markets.
We are building on a very strong position in Greece.
Our pure online businesses PIXmania and Dixons.
co. uk in combination grew 27% year on year.
But in the UK, PC Worlds profits were down significantly, and although Currys performed relatively well in a difficult market, we are not satisfied with the results.
In Italy, the tough consumer environment compounded our poor execution.
John Browett When we talked to customers, we found the reason Chief Executive they are not always shopping from our stores and websites is that we have not kept pace with their needs.
As we listened to customers they were very clear on what they wanted: they want better service, improved choice, contemporary stores and new services.
An Now, of course, we are in a tough economic environment.
To afford this much better customer offer we need to reduce costs and simplify the unbeatable business from top to bottom.
We know we are not operating as efficiently as we could and should be.
So we are making our processes better for combination customers, easier for staff and therefore cheaper to operate.
of value, On 15 May 2008, we announced details of a five point plan for the renewal and transformation of our business.
choice and The heart of the plan is to give customers an unbeatable combination of value, choice and service.
service These are the main points of the plan, which is already under way.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 07 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Renewal and Transformation plan 1.
Focus on the customer Every part of the plan hinges on knowing and acting on what customers want.
Historically, the Groups focus was on product and price, but this isnt the full story.
Now we must move to providing value, choice and service.
This means our stores and sites should be easier and more exciting places to shop, better able to Key actions in progress: give customers what they want, when they want it.
Customers want us to offer them the know-how to New format PC World stores now choose and use technology with confidence: to make operational, to be followed by trial things work and keep them working.
stores for Currys and Currys.
digital To make sure were helping customers choose a 2 Strong sales in first 50,000 ft large complete solution, with the right product or service and everything else they need, were improving store format in Oslo.
Format being training and incentives for all store colleagues.
We rolled out across Nordics expect that 24,000 store colleagues in the UK will be trained in time for Christmas 2008.
Were also Large format store to open in the UK improving our after sales services through delivery, installation, help and support.
All ranges reviewed with wider and better choices being offered 2.
Focus the portfolio on winning positions Our immediate focus is on the potential of our strong New store colleague incentive market leading retail operations in the UK & Ireland, scheme trialled in the UK the Nordics, Greece and over the internet.
Roll out of new five step selling Our businesses in the Nordics and Greece process to improve customer service successfully serve customers and here we will be consolidating our market position and further UK wide training of colleagues improving the customer offer.
In the UK, Currys, with greater emphasis on service, Currys.
digital and PC World are being reinvigorated connectivity, delivery, installation as we make a fundamental shift in the way these businesses are run.
and repair in a world of converging technology Operations in Italy require a significant turnaround and the new management team there have made Roll out of Get Connected good progress in identifying the issues and actions programme in PC World to provide that need to be addressed.
subscription services to customers In Spain and Central Europe we are not yet in a strong Detailed turnaround plan enough position to serve our customers well over and decisive steps from new the long term.
We are reviewing the businesses to management team in UniEuro strengthen their competitiveness.
Actions to reduce costs in the head office, supply chain and operations to free up resource to invest in customers 08 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 3.
Transform the business Chief Executives Our initial focus for Renewal and Transformation will be in the UK and Italy where there is the greatest Statement potential to serve customers better and improve value continued for shareholders.
The ranges in each category are being improved to deliver greater and clearer choices of good, better and best products at great prices.
Store formats are being improved to provide easier navigation, improved display and greater interactivity with products for customers.
Trials will be in place for Christmas 2008, with intended roll out across the UK businesses thereafter.
These formats include reallocation of space to provide the right mix of products that customers want from the stores as well as increasing overall densities.
PC World is being reinvigorated as the destination for computing and new technology digital products and services.
A new store format has been developed Stores are being improved to provide greater interactivity with products and is currently being trialled with plans to refit at for customers.
least 10% of the stores in the portfolio in time for Christmas 2008.
In the new format, aisles have been straightened to ease navigation, and products are displayed to make it easier for customers to experience their features and benefits.
Currys is reinvigorating its position as the destination for electrical products for everyone by offering an unbeatable range of products and services at great prices.
A new store format has been developed with several stores to be trialled through Christmas 2008.
digital is focusing on becoming the High Street destination for the latest portable technology.
White goods, small kitchen appliances and personal care products are being replaced by a greater range of laptops, televisions and other digital products and We will offer clear choices of good, better and best products.
a much greater depth of accessories.
While the majority of the 177 Currys.
digital stores make a positive contribution to the Group there are up to 100 stores in attractive catchments that will most likely be the focus for future trading.
The remaining stores will be closed as their leases expire.
The average high street lease has 45 years to run to expiry.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 09 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 In Italy, the new management team have identified the In addition, a Step Change programme is expected to key issues and started work on a detailed turnaround remove 50 million of costs in the new financial year.
We have already announced a rationalisation Initial focus will be on removing duplication and of the portfolio with the planned closure of up to 43 creating efficient structures in our head office, supply stores that were uneconomic or poorly located.
chain and in stock management.
Savings will largely They are also improving marketing effectiveness be reinvested back into the stores to enable us to and improving in-store product availability.
deliver a better service to our customers.
PC City in Italy and Sweden will be integrated into the Although the economic backdrop continues to be operations of UniEuro and Elkjp respectively.
In difficult, and we remain cautious about consumer Italy, stand alone PC City stores will be closed as part confidence in many of our markets, we can of the store rationalisation plan.
A trial of a PC City significantly improve performance for customers, store within a large UniEuro store has been opened staff and shareholders by implementing our plans and initial results are encouraging.
Further trials will quickly and effectively.
Theres a lot we can achieve.
be undertaken during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our 4.
Win on the internet employees for their commitment and enthusiasm, We are already the leading electrical retailer on and our shareholders for their ongoing support.
the internet in Europe with over 1 billion of sales achieved in the year.
The internet market is likely to grow to around 30% of the electricals market over the next few years, through a combination of pure-play and multi-channel.
PIXmanias market leading John Browett operating platform will be implemented in all our Chief Executive internet sites.
In addition PIXmania will be integrated into the logistics infrastructure of the Group.
Customers continue to favour trusted brands and the convenience of the store proposition combined with the immediacy of collecting products ordered over the internet in store.
We expect that multi-channel will continue to comprise at least a half of our total internet sales going forward.
A large proportion of this is likely to be reserved online for collection at store.
We will be making further enhancements to our reserve&collect facilities in the UK, Nordics and Greece over the new financial year.
Reduce costs We are working to make our business processes better for customers, easier for staff and therefore cheaper to operate.
Our existing One Group programme is establishing a common operating model for the Group and will consequently reduce costs significantly.
The programme is designed to simplify business processes, improve systems and decision making.
One set of business processes will make it easier to improve operations more quickly across the Group.
