Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review Reaping the rewards of a consistent strategy...
I am delighted to report another excellent set of results this year, which re ects great momentum in the business with like-for-like sales growth of 10.0%, building on the very strong performance in 2007.
This growth has been achieved while continuing our aggressive expansion programme, with a record 52 new stores successfully opened during the year, bringing the total number of stores at the year end to 553 and leaving us on track to exceed our Chris Moore target of at least 1,000 stores in the Chief Executive Of cer next 10 years.
Our growth continues to be driven by our unfaltering focus and passion for the delivery of our three key priorities namely great quality pizza, outstanding customer service and innovative marketing that resonates with our customers.
This combination has resulted in total system sales increasing by 18.4% 10.0% and pro t before tax, pre-exceptionals, up 24.7%.
Like-for-like sales 2007: 14.7% I am particularly delighted that this growth was achieved with our existing franchisees, who between them opened 51 of the 52 new stores, moving the average number of stores per franchisee a measure we have been looking to increase to 4.2 in 2008, up from 3.5 in 2007 and 3.0 in 2006.
And its not surprising to see why there is so much internal demand.
The average mature store now takes 45% more than it did five years ago resulting in 47 stores with sales in excess of 1.0m and, of the 8,700 Dominos stores worldwide, 38 of the top 50 stores are in our territory.
6 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 So how do we do it?
Our market Firstly, we operate in a market that offers strong growth potential for a number of different reasons.
Many of the consumer dynamics affecting the market are helping to underpin the strength of our business model.
These dynamics have been primarily driven by social and lifestyle changes over the decade, such as: 4 An increase in households opting for 1 A broader target market, as our original in-home entertainment accompanied by 18-34 year old consumer moves into the delivered food at the expense of eating 35-54 year old bracket, taking their eating or drinking out a dynamic that has habits with them, while new young adults been reinforced by the current economic come into the market.
We believe many of these customers have come from the restaurant sector and, by exceeding their expectations in terms of product quality and speed of delivery, these customers will stay with Dominos when the economy becomes more buoyant.
Strong growth potential 3 A growth in one-person households and 2 The increasing length of the working the number of working women.
week, resulting in more cash-rich, time-poor consumers reliant, in part, on prepared food.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued Our strategy Speed of service The first part of our strategy is to maximise the pro tability of both our franchisees and the Group Our average delivery time by positioning Dominos as the best pizza delivery company in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
is now a market-beating This premium positioning has been attained and 23 minutes is underpinned by three key elements: A passion for product quality and menu innovation Despite the recent downward pressure on food prices, key ingredients are still more expensive than they were two years ago.
In this recessionary environment, we believe many of our competitors have reduced the quality of their food.
At Dominos we have resolutely upheld the quality of our pizza and side orders and maintained our stance on no genetically modi ed food, no added hydrogenated fats and no monosodium glutamate.
Additionally, we continue to keep the menu fresh with a constant stream of new pizzas, side dishes and desserts.
8 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Focus on our franchisees Andy Smith Region: North East Number of stores run by Andy 6 Total number of stores in the region 2007 9 11 2008 11 Andy Smith joined the Dominos Pizza system as a franchisee in 2000.
At the time he was working in Scotland as the director of a building company.
Andys stores include Gateshead, which was one of the very first Dominos stores opened in the UK.
Andy says: I was looking for a change and there werent many pizza places in Scotland at the time.
Dominos had a good business proposition and looked like a great opportunity.
It proved to be a lucrative decision to get in at the start and Ive now got six stores across the North East and Scotland.
Working for Dominos and running my own business has brought me into contact with a wide range of people, from all walks of life.
During the last nine years Ive recruited numerous staff and seen them develop their careers both within Dominos and elsewhere.
Its a real people business and thats the best thing about it for me Ive met some real characters.
A fanatical focus on speed of service For the last three years we have focused in-store on reducing the time it takes to get an order ready for delivery and out-the-door OTD.
This gives our drivers Favourite pizza ample time to deliver each order safely.
This focus Pepperoni Passion has seen the OTD time reduce from 17 minutes in 13minutes 2005 to 13 minutes in 2008, which means that the OTD time average delivery time is now a market-beating 23 2007: 17 minutes minutes.
As a business, we know that the faster the customer receives their order, the sooner they are likely to reorder.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued The relentless marketing activity with which we Through this strong combination of marketing at support our brand both a national and local level, we have increased As our system sales grow, our franchisees contribution our customer penetration and order frequency and to the National Advertising Fund NAF grows, attracted a signi cant number of new customers.
allowing us to continue in a virtuous marketing circle.
Some 2.7 million households ordered from us during This year the NAF increased to 18m 2007: 15m, the year, a third of which were entirely new to the 73.7% which gave us the ability to secure the sponsorship brand.
Additionally, our e-commerce platform, which E-commerce sales of Britains Got Talent another step change in the this year celebrates its tenth anniversary, continues to 2007: 60.5% prominence of the brand in the UK.
Mainly as a result of increased exceeded everyones expectations as it captured spend in highly targeted online marketing in 2008, the nations attention.
The final show attracted an sales grew by an extraordinary 74% while average audience of around 14 million, which made it the ticket value was 20% higher than regular phone third most watched programme of the year, and we orders.
E-commerce in 2008 generated 23% of are looking forward to the next two series of this three delivered sales in the UK 2007: 16% while online year deal.
In the Republic of Ireland, we sponsored sales in the Republic of Ireland reached 7% of a number of high pro le shows including X-Factor delivered sales for its first full year of operation.
Crucially, this greater buying power has been complemented by the fide ationary media market, giving access to an increased number of advertising slots on prime time television.
10 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Focus on our franchisees Sean Geddes Region: Scotland Number of stores run by Sean 8 Total number of stores in the region 2007 38 43 2008 43 It was 2001 and Sean Geddes was working in Holland, running a business unit for TNT with a focus on major events.
He was responsible for organising the logistics for everything from the delivery of 300 tonnes of freight, 45 trucks and three 747s of equipment for a MotoGP race in Brazil to the transportation of a lorry load of 4x4s to Antarctica for the Camel Trophy.
Then one day, he decided it was time to drastically change his lifestyle.
Sean says: My wife had just had a baby daughter and I really wanted to spend more time at home, so I decided on a career change.
I went on the Internet and searched for Cash Business.
The results included some information about taking a Dominos franchise.
I ew to the interview from Nairobi and that was the end of my globe-trotting days.
The attraction of a strong brand, a great operation and the people involved convinced me to take the plunge and Ive not looked back since.
Its been fantastic to be able to watch my business and my kids grow up!
Our expansion potential The second part of our strategy is to pursue an aggressive store rollout and we are delighted to Favourite pizza have exceeded our target of opening 50 new stores.
This achievement is all the more remarkable given Piri Piri 52 the fact that the business model is 100% franchised, New stores opened which clearly limits the control that we have over the speed of rollout.
It is therefore only through the 2007: 50 delivery of a highly pro table business model that our franchisees invest, enabling us to grow further.
The new stores opened during the last 12 months had sales, on average, 26% higher than those stores opened in 2007, proving that we are still able to nd exceptional locations and franchisees to operate them.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued Our strategy and business model relies on strong relationships with our franchisees and we invest Bigger and better heavily in ensuring that we have open lines of communication.
As well as a dedicated franchisee Our investment in new intranet, which provides real time data on virtually facilities will enable us to every aspect of their operation, we hold regular events to ensure that they can talk directly to the improve our ef ciency and Companys Directors and senior management and give us more capacity we provide training courses for both franchisees and their store teams.
Our investment plans We have also embarked on an ambitious refurbishment project, rolling out our new look stores.
The new store template includes more visible kitchens to increase the theatre of the pizza maker, lighter, brighter customer service areas and a new, more eye-catching fascia.
12 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Focus on our franchisees Kevin Blessing Region: Republic of Ireland Number of stores run by Kevin 9 Total number of stores in the region 2007 34 41 2008 41 Kevin Blessing has long had an interest in food and, prior to joining Dominos, he was managing a food production company making pasta, sauces and ready meals.
Having completed his Franchise Development Programme, Kevin opened his first store in 2003.
He now has nine stores across the Republic of Ireland, which he runs with his brothers, Turlough and Peter.
Kevin says: I really wanted to run my own business and develop a brand but I realised that the latter was going to be a very expensive process and, with that in mind, I decided to look at the options around franchising.
With Dominos, I found something that is mid-way between the two a great combination of your own business and the support and backing of a strong brand.
It was a good choice and I really enjoy it.
My brothers and I are very hands-on and its fantastic watching people come into the store at the bottom, get bitten by the Dominos bug, and then work their way up to store manager.
Weve now got a very successful business, have built a fantastic team of people, and we have a lot of fun too.
We have also invested in new facilities that will enable us to both improve our ef ciency and to give us the additional capacity needed to meet our rollout plans.
We are in the process of expanding our facility at Favourite pizza Penrith, with work nearly completed on doubling its Thin crust pepperoni with capacity, at a cost of 4.0m.
We have also acquired the freehold land for the new commissary and bacon and green peppers headquarters in Milton Keynes and work is already underway.
The total cost of this project is estimated at around 27.0m and the commissary is expected to be completed by mid 2010 with the head of ce following in the third quarter of 2010.
We are currently on track to meet both of these targets.
We will also need to expand the commissary capacity in Ireland to meet the increasing demand in that territory and are currently investigating various options to achieve this goal.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executive Of cers review continued The successful delivery of this strategy continues Our cost controls to result in strong cash ows and we already have In line with this strong organic growth, we have also the debt facilities in place to fund the new Milton focused over the last year on controlling our costs Keynes commissary development.
Accordingly, it is and managing our central overhead as effectively the Directors intention to continue to return surplus as possible.
After the spiralling food costs of 2007, cash to shareholders by further share buybacks and we made purchasing a major focus in 2008.
We dividends, or to repay debt.
have strengthened our procurement team to utilise our growing buying power and, encouragingly, many food prices are beginning to come down.
The procurement team will also be concentrating on other major costs such as utilities for both us and our franchisees.
Our goal is to ensure that a small and highly ef cient centre supports an ever-growing network of franchised stores.
14 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Focus on our franchisees Nigel Hall Region: Wales Number of stores run by Nigel 5 Total number of stores in the region 2007 19 22 2008 22 Nigel Hall was a director for an IT company when, in 1997, he decided to become a Dominos franchisee.
He now has five stores in and around his home town of Cardiff.
Nigel says: I wanted to run my own business and work for myself, and I had always had an interest in food and catering.
I was looking for a franchise and Dominos had a strong brand and a proven operating system and I felt really comfortable with the people.
At the time, Colin and Gerry Halpern were still very involved and I knew I could do business with them.
Its been a fantastic experience and its been great to be part of a strong and growing success.
I am lucky to have a fantastic team of people working with me and every day is different.
I wouldnt go back to IT for anything!
Current trading and outlook We have had an exceptional start to 2009, with like-for-like sales for the first six weeks up 15.0% Favourite pizza 2008: 11.0%.
While we are delighted with this performance, we face some very tough comparatives Pepperoni Passion with and an unpredictable economic environment.
Veg-a-Roma sauce Our store opening programme continues apace and plans for another 50 new store openings this year are well underway with numerous sites in the pipeline.
We are con dent that we are well positioned for another year of strong growth.
Chris Moore Chief Executive Of cer Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
