Drax Group plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Chief Executives statement The year has been characterised by extreme movements in commodity market prices, making for uncertain times.
However, the market fundamentals for generators have remained strong amidst a variety of generation capacity issues, and this has allowed Drax to demonstrate the strength of its strategic role within the UK power generation sector.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 07 Our decision in 2008 to develop a Introduction 900MW dedicated biomass-red generation Commodity market conditions were business with Siemens Project Ventures generally favourable for Drax in the first GmbH Siemens Project Ventures half of the year.
During the third quarter, builds on the competence and focus that trading conditions continued to improve have been developed at Drax over recent primarily as a consequence of low capacity years.
In addition, through this strategic reserve margins in the electricity market.
partnership, we are able to further However, in the last quarter we saw the excellent working relationship that narrowing dark green spreads, as plant was we already enjoy with one of the principal returned to service and fears of a capacity manufacturers in the market.
shortfall were allayed, together with reduced Under a Joint Development Agreement peak electricity demand, reecting the with Siemens Project Ventures, together economic climate.
we intend to build, own and operate three We advised shareholders in October 2008 300MW dedicated biomass-red generation of the significant attractive long-term plants in the UK.
Once operational, almost opportunities from embarking on a growth one-third of the generation capacity under strategy.
The projected shortfall in UK Draxs management, some 1,400MW, generating capacity in the coming years would come from renewable sources.
and the UKs commitment to a challenging These sources will be both reliable and renewable energy target provide a real sustainable, and will power a generation opportunity to exploit the core competencies technology that has the availability and of the Drax business and leverage existing reliability similar to that of coal.
On current business relationships to transform Drax estimates, Drax would be responsible for into a multi-site, multi-fuel business that around 15% of the UKs renewable electricity, should yield value-enhancing returns for equivalent to the output of some 2,000 wind our investors.
turbines, and for producing around 10% of the UKs total electricity, enough to power around seven million homes.
An opportunity for growth We believe our strategy will provide a For the last few years we have had a clear diversied and sustainable business growth focus on carbon abatement, rmly believing path and deliver value with a clear focus on that we have a significant part to play in return on investment.
Given the outlook for the UKs transition to a low carbon economy.
the UK power generation market and the In pursuing carbon abatement we have incentives to invest in renewable generation, always maintained that, whilst there we rmly believe this strategy is right.
may be new technologies on the horizon, We are now in the advanced feasibility our role is to deliver valuable carbon stage of developing and planning, but we reductions here and now and, importantly, have been clear to our investors that we continue to deliver reliable and secure will only commit to investment once it can supplies of electricity.
be plainly demonstrated that we will secure Our efforts to move along this path started attractive returns.
We already enjoy an environmental leadership position in the coal-red generation sector, and we are determined to strengthen that position through targeted investment.
Our two key strategic investments, upgrading all our high and low pressure turbines and building a 500MW co-ring capability at the power station, have put us on the path to reducing signicantly our carbon footprint, and have opened up new opportunities for the future of our business.
Drax Group plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review Chief Executives statement Our long-term strategic plan for the core Having successfully identied sources of Investing in growth business develops the case for investment biomass in excess of the requirements for We intend to finance expansion of the to 2020 and beyond.
Environmental our new 400MW direct injection facility, business through a combination of new constraints represent the key challenge now we will be able to run it alongside our debt and cash generated from operations, to the future of Drax Power Station and we existing capability.
This means that from and this required a change to our are considering how best commercially to mid-2010 we will have a total co-ring distribution policy.
We notied investors address these constraints with the options capacity of 500MW which will produce the of this change when we announced that are available to us under probable equivalent output of over 600 wind turbines.
our growth strategy in October 2008. future legislation emanating from the EU.
The biomass co-ring facility will be the With respect to earnings in 2008 and 2009, largest in the world, and will reduce Drax Our successes to date make us well placed the Company will distribute all excess cash Power Stations emissions of CO2 by over to continue to operate with high availability generated from operations after meeting two and a half million tonnes a year.
and reliability for many years to come.
business requirements in each year.
For 2010 Our plant has been both well maintained Together our completed turbine upgrade and beyond, Drax will target a pay-out ratio and enhanced in terms of efficiency and and biomass co-ring projects will save of 50% of underlying earnings adjusted environmental performance improvements over three and a half million tonnes of for non-cash accounting items principally over recent years.
CO2 emissions each year, amounting to unrealised gains and losses on derivative a saving of up to 17.5% on historic levels.
During the year, we demonstrated our competence in both project execution and In addition to these two strategic projects, Our current debt levels are modest and biomass procurement: both vital skills that we have successfully executed a suite our debt matures in December 2010. are necessary as we grow the business.
of smaller projects specically targeting Any net renancing proceeds will be used Our turbine upgrade project is now just over efficiency and environmental performance to fund Draxs equity investment in the one-third complete.
Control instrumentation new biomass business.
We remain confident upgrade of one high pressure turbine in and emission reduction technologies that nancing will be available as we 2007, we upgraded the high and low pressure are amongst the measures implemented, approach financial close for the first plant.
turbines of two of our six generating units together allowing optimal and reliable during the major planned outages of 2008. operation of the plant.
The core business I am pleased to report that together these units are delivering their expected 5% The Drax Power Station asset remains efficiency improvement.
Translated into central to the business and we are carbon savings this means that, from the continuing the recent trend of investing third quarter of 2008, two of our generating in the core business to prepare ourselves units have been operating at an overall for the future.
We intend to maintain our efficiency that will save one-third of a million competitive edge and in so doing we are tonnes of carbon dioxide CO2 each year.
continually assessing future challenges and milestones whilst mindful of the need Great strides were made in advancing our to deliver shareholder value.
Early in 2008, planning permission was received to construct biomass handling, processing and co-ring facilities on the Drax Power Station site.
During the year, contracts were awarded to Alstom Power Limited for the construction and installation of the main processing works associated with the co-ring facility, and to Doosan Babcock Energy Limited for the supply and installation of direct injection biomass co-ring systems to all six generating units.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Looking ahead For 2009 and beyond, we are continuing to see narrow dark green spreads compared to those in 2008, driven principally by falling forward gas prices compared to those of coal, but also by the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, with sterling depreciating against both the US dollar and the euro.
Although we have seen demand reduction in the short term, all the analysis we have conducted continues to reinforce our view that the electricity market will provide increasing returns to available capacity as the retirement of some of the older power stations on the system reduce the generation capacity margin.
This should put upward pressure on spreads.
As a country we need to develop available and sustainable forms of renewable generation if we are to achieve the 2020 UK target of 15% renewable energy.
Biomass has been identied as a key growth area for attaining this target and the proposed Delivering on our core competencies: regulatory regime incentivises the uptake of this technology.
Trading Both these aspects will be positive for the business and we rmly believe that we are in Our trading strategy is to progressively hedge our output whilst targeting a position to take advantage of this opportunity market or better dark green spreads and retaining balanced market exposure.
and secure value for our shareholders.
We sell approximately one-third of our power in the near-term markets and the remaining two-thirds in the forward markets.
Read more: Pages 15 and 16 m Operations Once again we delivered a strong performance in plant reliability and availability, ranking us highly amongst our sector peers.
Two major planned outages were carried out in 2008, along with an increased amount of project work.
As a result, we saw a significant increase in the man-hours worked, particularly by contractors.
Despite this our safety record was commendable.
Read more: Pages 17 and 31 m Project execution Our two major strategic carbon abatement projects made real progress during 2008.
Our 100 million turbine upgrade project is now just over one-third complete and delivering to expectations.
Our biomass co-ring project is taking shape and is on track to deliver significant CO2 savings from mid-2010.
Read more: Pages 20 and 26 m Biomass procurement During 2008, we made excellent progress in delivering our biomass procurement strategy.
The identication of attractive supplies of biomass has enabled us to increase our target co-ring capacity to 500MW, equating to 12.5% of our output.
A key achievement of the year was the establishment of our sustainability policy Dorothy Thompson for procuring biomass.
Chief Executive 2 March 2009 Read more: Pages 20 and 27 m Project execution our strength in making things happen Our two major strategic carbon abatement projects are well underway.
Our commitment to improving thermal efficiency is showcased by our 100 million turbine upgrade project, which is the largest steam turbine modernisation programme in UK history.
Now just over one-third complete, we are already saving at least one-third of a million tonnes of CO2 each year.
Read more: Pages 20 to 26 m This image shows a close up of the pipework that distributes the steam exhausting from the intermediate pressure turbine module into the three new low pressure turbine modules.
