Chief Executives Review Our strategy has strengthened the Group and we achieved a significant advance in profits.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive In 2007 08, the Group achieved a 54% advance in is sufficient profit growth in the less cyclical parts of our adjusted operating profit to 119.6 million.
Packaging operations to achieve long-term progress.
A tighter supply position for corrugated case material In the coming financial year we are prepared for tougher CCM and corrugated packaging during much of the trading conditions, reecting difficulties in the world financial year provided good support for our price increase economies, particularly those of the UK, the rest of western programme, aimed at recovering the higher input costs we Europe and the USA.
We have established a number have been incurring for some time.
We also benefited from of strategic priorities with the objective of continuing the actions taken in both our activities, Packaging and to progress the implementation of the strategy whilst Ofce Products Wholesaling, to improve the business maintaining cost discipline and a strong balance sheet.
In Packaging, we will provide market-leading service to Towards the end of the financial year, we announced our customers across the product range, but concentrate a major investment project aimed at reinforcing our position our pursuit of growth in targeted higher value-added sectors of the market.
In Corrugated Packaging, these include as a leader in lighter-weight packaging, by giving us a retail-ready and promotional packaging, mainly for the significant capability in the growth segment of high-quality fast-moving consumer goods market, and heavy-duty lightweight CCM.
packaging for industrial users, while in Plastic Packaging The improvement in the Groups adjusted return on we have a number of good growth opportunities for our average capital employed in 2007 08 of 12.9% returnable transit packaging RTP business in both the 2006 07: 8.7% represents good progress towards industrial and retail parts of the market.
We will build on meeting our target to exceed the Groups estimated our existing positions in the faster-growing markets of central pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 11.5% and eastern Europe and Russia.
We are targeting to extend over the business cycle.
our recycling capability to take advantage of the demand for increased recycling associated with the environmental Strategy pressures to reduce the quantity of waste going to landll.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups composition In Paper, the priority is to reinforce our position in CCM, and strategy to assess that these are best able to generate by successfully completing our project to supply high-quality value for shareholders.
We are confident that the strategy lightweight CCM at Kemsley Mill, but we will also develop we are pursuing will provide good opportunities for further our growing position in plasterboard liner.
organic development of the Group.
In instances where In Ofce Products Wholesaling, we will maintain our it will enable us to full our strategic development plans focus on rebuilding profits in the UK while developing we will acquire businesses.
We remain prepared to exit the considerable potential of our existing businesses in businesses which are not likely to meet our strategic continental Europe.
We will increase further our support objectives in the longer-term.
for our dealer customers by developing our fullment services, enhancing our e-commerce and promotional The strategy has strengthened the Group, giving us a good base from which to compete.
It is ensuring that we tools and exploiting our capability to supply those are developing strong market positions in both Packaging products that resellers choose to offer but do not stock.
and Ofce Products Wholesaling and raising operational A fuller description of our strategy is provided on page 8. performance across our businesses.
An aim of our strategy is to dampen the volatility of the Groups results through our industrys business cycle, particularly by ensuring that there DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 5 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued Packaging demand for high-quality lighter-weight corrugated 2007 08 was a relatively good year across our Packaging packaging.
The project is expected to generate good activity.
Despite significant cost pressure, we advanced in financial returns in its first full year of operation 2009 10 all three segments.
The improved results were built around and provide very good returns for shareholders in the cost recovery through better pricing but this would not have longer-term.
been possible without our close attention to providing good Having raised the level of financial returns in UK Paper and customer care and high service levels.
It was pleasing to Corrugated Packaging to a more satisfactory level, we are see the growth coming through in the targeted higher now focused on sustaining an improved level of returns from value-added sectors of our businesses, a result of our this segment over the business cycle.
As we start the financial improved product and market development capability year, the strength of the euro is assisting our competitiveness supported by focused capital investment.
and pricing but we are faced with some slowing in demand, In the year, we made a major acquisition to support continued high waste paper costs, further rises in energy costs the development of our capability in lightweight CCM at and lower paper prices on the continent: although we expect Kemsley Mill, we strengthened our position in promotional margins in our Paper business to be under pressure, we will packaging through the acquisition of Multigraphics and we drive for further progress in our recycling and converted extended our network of packaging converting operations packaging operations.
in eastern Europe through establishing new manufacturing Continental European Corrugated Packaging facilities.
We also strongly supported our Ukrainian Despite facing signicantly higher input costs, this segment associate in its substantial development programme.
achieved improved results with operating profit increasing UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging to 20.3 million 2006 07: 18.2 million.
Our businesses In 2007 08, the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging in the established markets of France and Italy performed segment, which accounts for 38% of Group revenue creditably, assisted by their attention to raising productivity and 52% of Group average capital employed, achieved and their focus on higher value-added sectors of the market, a 32.0 million improvement in adjusted operating profit such as heavy-duty packaging.
As indicated at the half-year, to 68.5 million and an adjusted return on average results were poor in Turkey, where market conditions were capital employed of 14.3%.
All three elements of the tough: we are implementing an extensive action plan to supply chain in this segment Severnside Recycling, rebuild profits.
By contrast, our developing Polish business St Regis Paper and DS Smith Packaging contributed made further strong progress due to a combination of good well to the improved result.
growth and an increased proportion of higher value-added product in our sales mix.
The high-quality operation that we Our programme to raise prices enabled us largely to have developed in Poland provides us with a good hub recover the previously incurred higher input costs although from which to develop in central and eastern Europe.
We further increases in energy costs are maintaining the already have satellite operations in three countries and pressure on margins.
will be seeking to extend our network of businesses in Severnside Recycling, which supplies the waste paper raw this region as well as developing further in Poland.
material for our own recycled paper mills, continued to Results at our Ukrainian associate business were adversely develop the services it provides to third parties to generate affected by a major re: its performance is now recovering.
additional revenue from its waste collection network and Its investment programme, designed to raise capacity recycling expertise.
Our UK paper business continued to and extend its product range, is progressing: we have focus on raising the operational performance of its mills established a good capability in the fast-growing market and the development of plasterboard liner sales.
In our of plasterboard liner.
UK corrugated packaging business, we benefited further from our capability to service the market competitively with In Continental European Corrugated Packaging we are DS Smith Kaysersberg value-added products from our conventional box plant faced with higher energy costs and softer demand as we increased the productivity of network and our group of speciality corrugated businesses.
We will maintain our focus on the higher its French corrugated plants.
The investment and product development effort we have value-added sectors of the market and the opportunities targeted at the growing retail-ready and decorative presented by our developing markets.
packaging sectors contributed strongly to our success.
Plastic Packaging In February 2008, we announced our plan to produce Plastic Packaging achieved a solid advance in adjusted high-quality lightweight CCM at Kemsley Mill through operating profit to 10.7 million 2006 07: 10.2 million.
the acquisition and subsequent modication of the adjacent Good progress in RTP and the divisions two smaller New Thames Paper Mill.
The entire project is expected to businesses was partly offset by weaker results in liquid cost circa 104 million, funded from the Groups existing packaging and dispensing.
Work is already well advanced on the In RTP, beverage crate sales were strong as a result of modication of the facilities and we plan to commence the fullment of several large contracts and the success of production of lightweight CCM in January 2009.
The extruded products businesses recovered investment will materially strengthen the long-term some of the higher costs of polymer and benefited from competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated our previous actions to strengthen the sales and product Packaging business by giving us, at a very advantageous Spicers UK raised its service development functions: we have good opportunities for investment cost, a significant capability in an important levels.
Infra-red barcode further sales development based on new products and our growth segment of the CCM market.
It demonstrates our readers assist with achieving growing presence in eastern Europe.
In liquid packaging commitment to developing our UK business and reinforces fast and accurate order and dispensing, profit margins in both taps and bags were the Groups position as a leader in meeting the growing fullment.
com HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR Packaging Ofce Products Wholesaling Strong revenue and profit growth On track with rebuilding profits in the UK improved service levels, strong sales growth in EOS, reduced raised prices to recover higher input costs costs in the distribution network energy, waste paper and polymer Continued good performance in our established improved mix grew in higher value-added continental European businesses in France and products, particularly retail-ready and promotional the Benelux region corrugated packaging and plastic RTP Good progress in our development businesses Improved productivity in key businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy Extended our operations in eastern Europe Spicers business model enabling its customers Major acquisition to develop our capability to compete more effectively in lighter-weight packaging affected by competitive pressures.
The USA business Spicers has been well received when it has entered new benefited from the introduction of new products and the continental European markets.
The size of its product range, development of new markets: this progress was more than its purchasing power and its service offering enable dealers offset by weaker results in the European business due to to compete more effectively in the market, thus boosting sales in the dealers distribution channel.
The performance continuing competitive pressures.
The programme for of our continental European development businesses has implementing the restructuring of our German bag-in-box further reinforced our confidence in the potential for the operations has been agreed with our employees and is Spicers business model across Europe.
due to be completed by April 2009.
Our objective for Spicers is to maintain progress on The smaller packaging management and modied two fronts: continuing the rebuilding of profits at Spicers atmosphere packaging businesses both achieved UK and developing further our existing continental good profit improvement.
Polymer costs have recently risen again: a priority for the coming year will be the mitigation of these higher input Our People costs.
We expect developments in new products and The considerable advances in the Groups operational new market sectors to assist us in this objective.
performance and our substantially improved results have been achieved through the skills, ideas and hard work Ofce Products Wholesaling of our employees.
When I visit any of our businesses I The significant improvement in this segments results was am hugely impressed by the extent of the commitment, in line with our three-year plan, initiated in 2006 07, to enthusiasm and creativity demonstrated by our people.
Adjusted operating profit increased by I am grateful to them for their enormous contribution to 7.3 million to 20.1 million due to advances in both the success of the Group.
the UK and continental Europe.
Outlook In Spicers UK, our programme of actions resulted in The 2007 08 result provides a good profit base.
The improved service levels as we moved through 2007 08, current financial years operating performance will be reaching a good level as we exited the financial year.
affected by slowing demand and higher input costs.
We The strong sales growth was all in electronic ofce supplies expect to partly offset the effect of this tougher trading EOS products, which reects a deliberate move to support environment through tight cost and cash discipline our dealers in these products.
The proportion of EOS in our across all our operations and continued progress in our sales mix now more closely reects that of the market as a strengthened Packaging converting and Ofce Products whole and we will look to grow our sales of both EOS and Wholesaling businesses.
We remain on track to commission non-EOS product as we develop the business.
Costs were our new lightweight paper machine in January 2009.
As lowered in the distribution network through the closure of expected, profit before tax in 2008 09 will be impacted the Park Royal distribution centre.
Our e-commerce system by a non-cash increase of circa 10 million in the finance has been strengthened further and is providing a good costs related to the employment benefit finance charge.
Our UK action programme is being reinforced to ensure the achievement of our targeted further progress in this important business.
In our continental European businesses, which account for circa 50% of Spicers total revenue, the established French and Benelux businesses again performed well, while our businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy each achieved significant goals in their development plans.
The growth of the Italian business, ahead of its plan, Tony Thorne is particularly encouraging.
Group Chief Executive DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 7
