Strategy Update Strategic and financial progress Chief Executives Review In May 2005, the Group refocused its strategy and dened three clear objectives: Focus on two customer groups: R&D engineers EEM and Maintenance engineers MRO : Implement the Enterprise Business System EBS in Europe and Asia Pacic: Reduce the cost base by 10m p. a.
The implementation of the new strategy has proceeded well with the clearer focus on R&D engineers and Maintenance engineers supporting growth across the Group.
The implementation of EBS in Europe and Asia Pacic is complete, benets are being delivered and the 10m p. a. cost saving target has been met.
Since 2006 headline operating profit has increased by 27m and free cash ow has increased by 48m.
The Group is an increasingly diverse business that operates in 27 countries directly and another 38 via distributors.
61% of sales now come from International markets.
It sells to 1.6m customers worldwide who are based in a broad range of service and manufacturing industries.
Competitive position The Group has now built a strong platform for growth.
It has: Leading positions in growing markets for high-service distribution.
The Group is the number one high-service distributor internationally having been the first to globalise its operations.
It has delivered strong International sales growth of around 10% p. a. since March 2004: World-class global infrastructure and systems including a global e-Commerce platform, integrated systems, centralised purchasing and supplier management and global inventory, logistics and supply-chain management: Strong R&D, maintenance and e-Commerce customer propositions.
The Group distributes the broadest range of technologies for R&D engineers and has the leading high-service offer for maintenance engineers worldwide.
Our e-Commerce capabilities are leading edge, with 70 transactional web sites in 17 languages that are constantly developing in innovative new ways: A stable and profitable UK business.
Growth drivers The Board has reviewed the strategy of the business going forward and has identied four key areas of focus that will drive future performance: Focus on fast growing international markets: Accelerate development of the Groups R&D and Maintenance offers: Exploit the full potential of e-Commerce: Leverage the Groups global infrastructure and increase operating margins.
Focus on fast growing international markets There is significant growth potential in the three International regions of Asia Pacic, Continental Europe and North America.
The greatest opportunity is in Asia Pacic where the Group is investing to accelerate future revenue growth with a particular focus on China.
Accelerate the development of the Groups R&D and maintenance offers The Group is accelerating the expansion of its product range for R&D engineers, as well as deepening its relationship with select, world-class electronic suppliers.
New industrystandard packaging options, at competitive prices, were recently introduced on over 40,000 products in the major markets of Europe and the UK.
This expands the Groups customer base to a large potential market beyond R&D engineers to customers involved in prototyping Ian Mason and small batch manufacturing.
The initial customer reaction to the launch has been positive.
Group Chief Executive To develop our offer to maintenance engineers the Group is focused on enhancing and more effectively promoting its ranges in high growth areas such as Process Control and Automation PCA.
Ranges in areas where customers do not value an extensive choice are being rationalised.
The range of own brand products is being expanded to drive both sales and profitability and global product sourcing is increasing.
Exploit the full potential of e-Commerce Although the catalogue remains an important channel for our customers, e-Commerce represents an opportunity to fundamentally enhance many aspects of our business model.
Rapid growth of this channel has taken e-Commerce sales to 33% of Group revenue.
e-Commerce enables the Group to more rapidly introduce new products, as it reduces the constraint of the traditional annual catalogue publication cycle.
It enables the Group to offer a wider product range than is practical in a paper catalogue: an ability that has already been successfully exploited by selling the Groups US and Japanese extended ranges to UK and European customers.
Customers are being encouraged to switch to e-Commerce and as a result our ability to reduce off-line costs is increasing.
In addition, e-Commerce is helping the Group form deeper relationships with key suppliers, for example by embedding supplier-generated content in the Groups site and providing links from supplier sites.
Leverage the Groups global infrastructure and increase operating margins International growth is driving operating cost leverage through economies of scale and the exploitation of xed costs within the Groups cost base.
There is significant scope for the Group to achieve further operating cost leverage as the business expands.
The Groups past investment in its EBS systems is now providing cost benets in many areas, including inventory cost management and more sophisticated, targeted discounting.
Additionally the Group is targeting further cost saving opportunities.
Performance framework The Group has set a five year performance framework which includes a number of Key Performance Indicators.
KPIs 2008 International sales growth 7%-10% p. a.
8% International share of Group sales 70% 61% UK Contribution Stable Increasing 1 Sales via e-Commerce 50% 33% Underlying gross margin Stable Stable 2 3 Cost as % of sales Reducing Reducing Capex Below Below 4 4 depreciation depreciation 5 Return on Capital employed 25% 24% 1 Exit rate 2 International and Process costs 3 Excluding the one off North American warehouse move costs 4 Including amortisations 5 Headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt Ian Mason Group Chief Executive 4 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
