12 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chief Executives Statement Our strategy 13 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Overview In accordance with the Companys organic growth plans Filtrona is an international, market leading, speciality plastic and in response to evolving customer demands, investment and fibre products supplier with activities segmented into continued in securing operational efficiencies, expanding Plastic Technologies and Fibre Technologies.
sales and marketing activities and developing new and innovative customer solutions.
The Filter Products division From its global network of 37 principal manufacturing continued the reorganisation of its manufacturing facilities, facilities, 42 distribution operations and four research and and the distribution capabilities of the Protection and Finishing development centres, Filtrona derives strength through Products division have been further developed.
serving a wide range of customers, across diverse geographies within a broad but targeted range of The current global recession does not impact the Companys international markets.
commitment to the pursuit of its strategic goals but will, inevitably, affect the pace at which further progress can be In 2008, Filtrona made continued progress in its strategy of made.
Organic development is likely to progress at a slower optimising its portfolio of businesses, including exploring pace in the recessionary environment, given the sensitivity of acquisition opportunities in the higher growth, higher some of Filtronas businesses to consumer demand and gross margin divisions.
The acquisition of the Lendell business domestic product.
The extent to which attractive acquisition was driven by the Companys view of the growth potential opportunities may present themselves during 2009 is not for the medical and cosmetic markets in which Lendell easy to assess given market conditions but the Company operates.
Lendell is a manufacturer of speciality foam will continue to investigate strategic markets and closely products and its specialist markets and proprietary monitor target businesses that may further drive Filtronas technology are highly complementary with those of the longterm performance.
It is expected that global economic conditions will remain During the fourth quarter of 2008, because of the challenging during 2009.
However, the relatively defensive deterioration in global economic and business conditions, the nature of a number of Filtronas key served markets, combined Company withdrew from a significant potential acquisition at with the Companys focus on cash generation, cost control an advanced stage.
Accordingly, the Company is reporting and reinforcement of its strong international positions give the 1.3m of transaction costs incurred on this strategic Board confidence that Filtrona will continue to demonstrate development activity in 2008, which are presented as an resilience and that the Group is well positioned to deliver exceptional item by virtue of their size and incidence.
14 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chief Executives Statement Filtronas programme of continuous improvement and cost reductions across its global manufacturing and distribution footprint requires constant focus and decisive action Strategy Key Strengths Filtronas longterm objective is to continue to grow profitably for the benefit of its shareholders through investing organically in each of its divisions and by acquisition within its higher Strong international margin, higher growth potential businesses.
The Company will acquire in selected markets within or complementary market positions to plastic and fibre technologies.
The Companys strategic focus is to invest in and build on its core competencies and Long-term customer relationships strong international positions through the investment in, and acquisition of, businesses which are engaged in the development, manufacturing, sourcing and distribution of Well invested flexible global high volume, low unit cost, small but essential products for infrastructure use in consumer, medical and industrial markets.
The identification and successful exploitation of markets which Experienced management team offer significant value addition and growth opportunities through product innovation, distribution, service and cost Reputation for quality improvements are integral to the future development of Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive and innovation position of its global businesses.
Operational efficiency With a responsible winning culture based on Filtrona Values and Key Strengths the reputation of the Company and its employees form a sound basis for the successful delivery of new business and market opportunities designed to secure longterm value for Filtronas shareholders.
Filtronas key served markets are shown in Figure 1 and represent important industrial and consumer product segments with a bias towards more defensive markets.
From its broad and flexible manufacturing and distribution network, Filtrona is a supplier throughout the world to many blue chip, international, market leading customers with the top 10 customers in 2008 representing 33.1% of revenue.
The decrease in customer concentration during the year 15 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Figure 1 Figure 2 2008 Key served markets Geographical spread of revenue m 42.0% 42.0% Tobacco Tobacco 210.3 210.3 Europe Europe 25.1% 25.1% Other Other 207.6 207.6 North America North America 5.4% 5.4% Fabrication and Fabrication and 108.5 108.5 Rest of W Rest of W orld orld machiner machiner y y 5.2% 5.2% Oil, gas and processing Oil, gas and processing 5.0% 5.0% Point of purchase Point of purchase 3.8% 3.8% Healthcare Healthcare 3.8% 3.8% Vehicle cars, trailers, Vehicle cars, trailers, construction construction and agriculture and agriculture 3.5% 3.5% Writing instruments Writing instruments 3.4% 3.4% Lighting Lighting 2.8% 2.8% Food and other Food and other consumer products consumer products in comparison from 36.7% in 2007 is a reflection of the employees at the end of 2007.
The principal reductions took Companys success in broadening its overall customer base.
place in the Protection and Finishing Products, Plastic Profile and Sheet and Filter Products divisions.
This enabled the In 2008, the geographic destination of the Companys Company to increase revenue per employee by 3.5% on a revenue was as shown in Figure 2.
The Rest of World segment constant exchange rate basis.
The restructuring of the Filter includes many of the lower cost manufacturing and higher Products division continued during the year and 1.8m of growth regions such as India, Indonesia and China.
This restructuring costs are included in the operating results of this segment represents 20.6% of revenue in 2008, up from 19.5% division in 2008. of revenue in 2007.
The Company will undertake a restructuring programme in Performance 2009 and 2010, with the focus on the Filter Products division.
Filtrona secured increases in revenue, adjusted operating It is estimated that the cash costs of this restructuring will be profit, and earnings during the year despite the challenges circa 5m in 2009 and 2m in 2010 with additional noncash presented by global economic conditions during the later costs of 3m over the two year period.
The restructuring is stages of 2008 and the emergence of recessionary trends expected to deliver savings of circa 2.5m in 2009 and 6.5m in some of the Companys markets.
Revenue was up against from 2010 onwards.
the prior year by 6.5% at 526.4m 2007: 494.2m and, at constant exchange rates, down 0.9%.
Adjusted operating The Company experienced significant raw material profit was up 0.9% to 65.0m 2007: 64.4m, after absorbing cost increases in 2008 with polymers, which are used 1.8m of restructuring costs, and down 8.1% at constant in all the Plastic Technologies businesses and the Porous exchange rates.
Technologies division, and cellulose acetate tow, the principal raw material consumed by the Filter Products division, The beneficial impact of currency translation during the year particularly severely affected.
Pricing action was taken was 37.1m on revenue and 6.3m on adjusted operating during 2008 to offset the raw material and energy cost profit but the improvements also reflect the resilience Filtrona increases.
The costs of polymers fell sharply at the end of derives from its strong international market positions.
The the year due to falling oil based feedstock prices and the robust profit performance and effective working capital rapid fall in manufacturing activity globally.
management helped to maintain a strong operating cash flow at 65.6m, demonstrating the benefits of Filtronas cash Operating margin declined to 12.3% from 13.0% in 2007 and generative business model.
was depressed by the combined effects of the restructuring in the Filter Products division, the legal costs associated with the During 2008, essential steps were taken across the Group to intellectual property claims made against FractureCode and manage the cost base in the face of deteriorating market the impact of the industrial action at Boeing, which is an conditions and, regrettably, this resulted in a total headcount important customer of the Plastic Profile and Sheet division.
reduction of 8% in the year to 4,292 employees from 4,666 16 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Chief Executives Statement These results reflect the strength of Filtronas international market positions and the Companys cash generative business model Return on average operating capital, excluding intangible Corporate responsibility assets, reduced from 26.8% to 24.5% and the return on Filtrona has built a strong framework within which corporate average total invested capital, including intangibles, reduced responsibility activities are managed ensuring that the from 13.9% to 12.7%.
These ratios were negatively impacted by Company maintains the high standards which reflect the the factors detailed above in relation to the operating margin expectations of the Companys internal and external performance, and by the use of average exchange rates for stakeholders.
The success of this framework is demonstrated the income statement and closing exchange rates for the by the various initiatives introduced within Filtronas global balance sheet.
Adjusted earnings per share grew by 8.1% to businesses and these are reported on in greater detail in the 18.6p 2007: 17.2p and basic earnings per share grew by 13.1% Corporate Responsibility report on pages 34 to 39. to 17.3p 2007: 15.3p.
The Company again made good progress in its corporate Net debt increased by 46.9m to 182.1m 2007: 135.2m due citizenship during 2008 and Filtrona Values remain the primarily to exchange rate movements and the acquisition of bedrock upon which the development of the Companys Lendell.
The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, culture rests.
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional acquisition fees increased from 1.56 in 2007 to 2.05 in 2008.
If closing Filtronas development of a responsible, progressive and exchange rates were used in both components of the winning culture recognises the role which the Companys calculation, the ratio would have been 1.71. relationship with its employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders and its interaction with the environment The Companys longterm funding arrangements comprise and local communities has in securing competitive advantage a sterling denominated multicurrency syndicated facility and business performance across its divisions.
The totalling 215m, which matures in May 2010, together with strengthening of the international reputation of the Filtrona other uncommitted and overdraft facilities to provide short businesses and the quality of their respective brands are term flexibility.
Additionally, the Company has committed regarded as real benefits to be derived from the Companys bilateral facilities of US$40m, which expire in November 2009. commitment to corporate responsibility in addition to the cost Based upon these maturity dates, refinancing is an important savings stemming from initiatives focused on environmental benefits and sustainable practices.
process for Filtrona and it is one which the Company expects to complete shortly.
It is anticipated that net finance expense could double in 2009 as a result of higher borrowing costs The skills and commitment of Filtrona employees across and the amortisation of related fees.
the world are fundamental to ensuring the quality and 17 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Accident trend injury illness 12 month lost time accident trend Accident trend near misses Accident trend near misses 12 month moving average 12 month moving average 12 month moving average 12 month moving average Accident trend injury illness Accident trend injury illness 7 7 33 33 31 31 6 6 29 29 5 5 27 27 4 4 25 25 23 23 3 3 21 21 2 2 19 19 1 1 17 17 15 15 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Jan AugFeb Sep Mar Oct Apr NovMay Dec Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Jan AugFeb SepMar Oct Apr NovMay DecJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 competitiveness of the Companys portfolio of products and maintained and continues to foster.
Filtrona strives to maintain services.
The Companys commitment to its employees is the highest ethical standards at all times in the conduct of its reflected in the quality and safety of the working environment international operations.
and the personal development opportunities which it seeks to provide at each of its locations, without discrimination Filtronas drive towards continuous improvement and cost between site or people.
There is a recognition across the reductions across its global manufacturing and distribution Group of the potential impact of any business restructuring on footprint requires an ongoing assessment of operational affected employees and communities and Filtrona handles all efficiencies and securing the benefit of potential energy, water headcount reduction programmes with due responsibility.
As a responsible corporate citizen, the Company looks to exploit opportunities to benefit the financial Filtrona made substantial progress in its objective to gain performance of its businesses in a manner consistent with OHSAS 18001 health and safety accreditation across all its environmental sustainability.
principal manufacturing sites and, at the end of the year, accreditation had been achieved at the majority of its principal The Company has the ISO14001 environmental accreditation manufacturing locations.
Total accidents and lost time at all its principal manufacturing facilities and remains a accidents remain two key performance indicators within the member of both the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust.
Company in recognition of the primary importance of good health and safety when securing optimal operational efficiency.
It was particularly pleasing that, for the first Mark Harper time, the Filtrona gold standard for health and safety was Chief Executive achieved by no less than four operations.
The improvement in 26 February 2009 Filtronas health and safety performance and awareness is detailed above.
Filtronas reputation as an employer is important to ensure the attraction and retention of suitably motivated, experienced and skilled personnel.
The customer and supplier perception of Filtrona Values and standards of conduct across a variety of regions and cultures can impact on the development of the longstanding business relationships which the Company has
