Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
12 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executive Officers Statement During the first nine months of 2008 the Groups financial and operational results were outstanding, supported by strong demand and high commodity prices for our major products as well as the managements focus on the control of costs.
The results reflect the value of the Groups high quality assets, our integrated energy and logistics capabilities and strategic location.
Whilst we had anticipated a slowdown, the experience of Q4 2008 was far swifter and much greater than we or the industry had anticipated, as the travails of the financial sector were transmitted to businesses and consumers around the world.
As the downturn took effect we kept our business operations under review.
We responded quickly to match supply with the reduced demand from our stainless steel and steel customers, to limit inventory buildup and to maintain the advantages of our low cost position.
We believe that this best secures our financial position and sustains the advantage we derive from being a low cost producer.
The Groups record results in 2008 are, nonetheless, tempered by the more challenging environment continuing into 2009.
Management response to the downturn The steps we took to address the downturn in Q4 2008 were: We announced immediate production cutbacks in the ongoing operations of our Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions of, respectively, approximately 35% and 50% referenced to the Dr Johannes Sittard 2007 sales volumes.
Chief Executive Officer We reduced staff costs, with a 10% pay cut for senior management, the suspension of sub-contractors, reduced working hours, job shares, unpaid leave and salary and hiring freezes.
We managed to implement these measures without having to significantly reduce the workforce, which will stand us in good stead to rebuild output when the environment improves.
We secured a reduction in raw material input costs as a result of the economic turndown.
We reviewed our capital expenditure programme with priority being 2008 was a record year for given to replacement and productivity enhancing projects, limiting the active and planned in-progress projects to US$2.4 billion.
We believe that Expansion projects have been delayed and will be reviewed our response to the economic as to their timing with the flexibility to reinstate them when economic conditions allow.
We are also reviewing opportunities downturn will stand us in good to reduce delivery times, reduce costs and cut expenditure with stead to manage through 2009. equipment suppliers.
Most importantly our focus on Our businesses remain low cost occupying the lower third or in the case of ferrochrome, at the bottom of the cost curve.
This remains a cost management, coupled with key advantage that we will focus on maintaining and, where possible, the strategic location of our reinforcing, through the present downturn.
Crucial to our success is that our businesses remain underpinned by the security of our logistics assets, will ensure that we are and low cost energy supply.
well positioned to capitalise on 2008 Performance expected future growth in China In the full year 2008, Group revenue increased 66.2%, to US$6,823 million 2007: US$4,106 million.
The inclusion of Serov, from Q2 2008, and Russia.
Additionally, our Tuoli, from Q4 2008, and new aluminium sales, together added strong balance sheet provides revenues of US$782 million.
Excluding these new businesses, revenue refer note 36 grew 47.2%, with the increase driven largely by higher us with the opportunity to average sales prices notably for ferrochrome and iron ore, partially exploit value-enhancing offset by lower year-on-year volumes, in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions.
Total costs excluding exceptional items rose 18.8%, acquisition opportunities.
Excluding the new businesses, total costs increased 5.6%.
Cost increases, particularly in the core operating divisions, were driven by labour and materials reductants and fuel.
Cost pressures abated significantly in Q4 2008, but in addition we took a number of actions to limit labour costs and to maximise our operational flexibility.
Underlying EBITDA increased 116.9%, to US$4,161 million 2007: US$1,918 million whilst profit after tax increased 229.7%, to US$2,684 million 2007: US$814 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items rose 111.3%, to 205 US cents 2007: 97 US cents.
Our first full year dividend paid and proposed amounts to 31 US cents per share: a payout ratio dividend per share as a proportion of earnings per share of 15%.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 The Groups performance was underpinned by a steady increase in The current approved in progress capital expenditure programme overall production volumes and higher sales for the first nine months includes: of 2008.
There was a significant downturn in Q4 2008 when we announced production cuts in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions, Ferroalloys Division the construction of three new Direct Current but for the full year 2008 ferrochrome production excluding Serov DC furnaces at Aktobe with a capacity of 440 thousand tonnes per and Tuoli was down only 6.8% whilst primary iron ore concentrate annum.
These will be a mixture of replacement and new production fell 7.8%.
Production continued to grow in the Alumina and Aluminium with a net increase in production of approximately 170 thousand Division with alumina production at its new target capacity of 1.6 tonnes.
The introduction of new furnaces will be staggered to reflect million tonnes per annum and with 106 thousand tonnes from the new market demand.
The DC furnaces should enhance productivity by aluminium smelter.
The Ferroalloys Division, contributing some 67.0% their scale, enabling a reduced exposure to coke and allow the 2007: 59.4% of underlying EBITDA, benefited from strong pricing, as greater use of chrome ore fines.
well as the first-time contribution of Serov, with overall revenue almost Alumina and Aluminium Division the additional 125 thousand doubling and significantly outpacing growth.
The Iron Ore Division, tonnes Phase 2 capacity of the aluminium smelter, due to contributing 22.1% 2007: 24.5% of underlying EBITDA, was driven by commence production in 2010. strong pricing and good control of costs.
The Alumina and Aluminium Energy Division the construction of an additional 325MW turbine Division, contributing 7.1% 2007: 11.2% of underlying EBITDA, saw to facilitate growth in other Divisions, principally the new aluminium total costs rise ahead of revenues due to a weak aluminium price and smelter, while maintaining a net long position in electricity and the build up of the new aluminium smelter.
The Energy Divisions providing strategic growth optionality.
underlying EBITDA contributed 4.3% 2007: 5.6%, benefiting from Logistics Division the China Gateway Project.
The project, stronger third-party coal sales and better power and coal pricing for which we won a tender from the Government of the Republic partially offset by an increased proportion of internal power of Kazakhstan, is of strategic significance to both the country consumption by the new smelter.
The Logistics Division, contributing and the Group.
The increased capacity will enable us to better 1.2% 2007: 2.3% of underlying EBITDA, was impacted by a decline serve the market in North-West China for which we anticipate in transportation volumes and reduced repairs business.
We maintained a strong balance sheet with gross available funds For 2009 project capital expenditure is expected to amount to of US$2,768 million 31 December 2007: US$2,921 million and approximately US$0.6 billion, with a further US$0.4 billion for capital outstanding debt of US$727 million 2007: US$1,424 million.
Operating cash flow was very strong, increasing 156.3%, to US$2,766 million 2007: US$1,079 million.
We see our funding position as a key Acquisitions competitive advantage in the present uncertain times and will continue We completed the acquisition of a controlling interest in the Serov to manage this position prudently.
group and certain related entities Serov in early April 2008.
Serov is a ferroalloy producer in Russia.
The total acquisition consideration Health and safety amounted to US$210 million.
The transaction built up our position in Health and safety is a key focus for the Group and in 2008 we lowand medium-carbon ferrochrome, and we acquired additional intensified our efforts toward improvement.
The Group achieved a high-carbon capacity.
In mid October 2008 the Group announced reduction in fatalities to 9 in 2008, from 15 in the prior year.
Any deaths the completion of the acquisition of a 50% stake in Tuoli, a Chinese are regrettable to us and we express our condolences to the families ferroalloys producer, for approximately US$15 million.
The number of injuries rose to 75 2007: 63: 2008 exc Serov: of a 50% interest in BML for US$306 million was announced in early 71.
The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR rose to 0.68 2007: May 2008.
BML is focused on the development of an iron ore deposit 0.58: 2008 exc Serov: 0.67 per one million hours worked, reflecting in the Bahia State of Brazil.
The bankable feasibility study for the BML improved reporting but also increased injury severity and greater lost iron ore deposit project is expected to be completed in Q3 2009. worktime.
We were pleased by the initial response to our review of workplaces where protection is required, stricter safety requirements In February 2009, we announced the acquisition of a 25% interest being enforced on staff and the retraining of safety managers.
In 2008 in Shubarkol Komir JSC Shubarkol, from a related party, a major safety reporting and procedures were reviewed by international semi-coke and thermal coal producer based in the Republic of consultants, DuPont, and a new safety management system is now Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$200 million less 25% being implemented.
The Group has adopted an aspiration of zero of net debt.
Shubarkol is one of the Republic of Kazakhstans largest injuries on which to focus its drive for an improved approach to health semi-coke and thermal coal producers, producing some 6.1 million and safety.
tonnes of coal in 2007 and with 1,419 million tonnes of measured and indicated coal resources within its coal lease.
ENRC has entered into Capital expenditure an off-take agreement with Shubarkol, secured a seat on Shubarkols Capital expenditure in 2008 amounted to US$1.3 billion 2007: US$0.9 Board and has a right of first refusal, combined with a call option, over billion, significantly below our original expectations of US$1.7 billion all or part of the remaining shares in Shubarkol.
We believe that the for the year.
In H1 2008 capital expenditure was broadly spread across acquisition of this stake strengthens the integrated business model our Divisions as we invested to build up our growth profile: the through securing a reliable and cost effective supply of semi-coke and highlights of 2008 were the aluminium smelter achieving its Phase 1 relatively high quality thermal coal, enhancing the Groups position as run-rate capacity well ahead of schedule and the refurbishment of a a low cost producer.
Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy and are intended To continue to support the Groups strategic plan, priority has been to build further on the low cost base of the business.
Leveraging our given to replacement and efficiency projects, amounting to US$2.4 knowledge of minerals extraction as well as our integrated energy and billion in total.
These projects are important to sustaining the Groups logistics capacity, the Group will look to develop its presence in other relative cost position advantage.
The projects that have been delayed, natural resources in the Eurasian region and elsewhere in the world.
amounting to some US$4.3 billion, continue to be a key part of the Groups strategy for our Kazakhstan businesses, however, their timing Taxation is dependent on future demand.
In December 2008 the Republic of Kazakhstan introduced a new Tax Code which took effect from 1 January 2009, providing us with greater clarity and predictability.
Broadly the new Tax Code is designed to encourage greater investment in value-added processing by miners in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The new Tax Code has three key changes: DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
14 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executive Officers Statement continued a phased reduction in the rate of Corporate Income Tax CIT from 30% in 2008 to 20% in 2009, 17.5% in 2010 and, 15% from 2011: the introduction of new Minerals Extraction Taxes MET with a specific rate for each type of mineral, broadly phased to offset the reduction in CIT: and revisions to the basis of calculating Excess Profits Tax EPT.
The impact of the new Tax Code, going forward, is as we expected: if all of the changes were to be incorporated into the 2008 tax charge, on a pro forma basis, the impact would be an additional 1 to 2 percentage points on the underlying effective tax rate of 33.5%.
ENRCs continued commitment to invest in value-added processing in the Republic of Kazakhstan should enable us to optimise our future effective tax rate.
In the short term, in the light of the current environment, we are discussing with the Government the possibility of partial or whole exemptions from MET.
Industry overview We expect the outlook for mining and metals across our core commodities to remain positive over the longer term.
However, in the short term, the industry faces considerable uncertainty and business sentiment remains appropriately cautious.
This is already widely evident in the postponement or cancellation of projects by our industry peers, cutbacks in capacity in response to weak demand conditions and with many spot prices at or below the cost levels of the marginal producers.
In most commodities, production capacity remains well in excess of demand and inventories are high.
We expect that in 2009 discussions for negotiated price commodities will be more protracted.
Near-term conditions should be gradually eased by the range of extensive fiscal stimulus packages implemented by governments worldwide.
Nonetheless, we believe that the world economy is unlikely to see a sustained improvement in industrial production until credit conditions ease, the cost of capital declines and after substantial private and public sector deleveraging.
Stainless steel production in 2008 amounted to about 26.6 million tonnes 2007: 28.5 million tonnes and may ease further in 2009.
Downside risk may be limited, as industry ferrochrome capacity has been much reduced and there is limited inventory, which should help lower cost producers such as ENRC.
Iron ore production will be similarly depressed and our advantage is our access to the North-West Chinese markets, however, there are few signs of recovery evident in the Russian steel industry on which we have traditionally focused.
Alumina and aluminium will remain constrained by high inventory levels, however, our location, low cost position and limited scale should help our position within the Russian market.
We hold a positive view on the long-term growth prospects for the Chinese and Russian economies, which supports ENRCs strategic Below Second right Control room at SSGPO, Rudniy Ball mill rolling drum, Donskoy GOK, Kazchrome Khromtau Right Marking categories of aluminim Far right ingots, KAS, Pavlodar Smelting facilities at Aktobe Ferroalloy Plant, Kazchrome, Aktobe DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 location: China in particular will be key to any turnaround in the We believe that ENRC has all of the essential ingredients for managing demand for industrial metals.
The potential growth in demand in Russia through the current challenging environment and for future success, and China, for ferroalloys, iron ore, alumina and aluminium, and in based on our proximity to key markets, our low costs and growth other metals is significant, based on their populations, urbanisation opportunities.
Given the current operating environment, we are and infrastructure requirements.
The prospects for ENRC in these focused on the tight management of cash and of the balance sheet, markets are enhanced by structural capacity shortages, particularly rigorous control of costs in our businesses, the pursuit of a range of in China, that are expected to emerge with an economic recovery.
asset productivity enhancements and replacement, and selective The Republic of Kazakhstan, and ENRC as a leading company in the acquisition opportunities.
All of these are directed towards Republic of Kazakhstan, are strategically well positioned to seize underpinning the performance of the business, providing a solid the opportunities in these key markets over the longer term.
platform for growth and delivering value for all our shareholders.
Outlook for 2009 Our success is ultimately a credit to the operational management team One of managements key areas of focus has been working capital.
in the businesses and to all our employees, to whom we offer our We have successfully managed to control inventory levels and have sincere thanks for their continuing efforts and for their fortitude and avoided any significant issues with the recovery of receivables.
accommodation as we manage through the current challenging times.
We would not have been able to manage through the downturn as well As indicated above, we expect that market conditions will remain without the cooperation of our workforce with whom we have a good determined largely by demand factors.
Whilst sales volumes so far working relationship.
in 2009 have been better than expected, it is not clear that this is sustainable.
Some contractual sales volumes have been reduced to date, and this trend may continue in light of overall market conditions.
We do not expect that we will have certainty on any sustained general recovery before 2010 at the earliest.
Dr Johannes Sittard The Q4 2008 production cutback in Ferroalloys will be maintained at Chief Executive Officer 35% with iron ore at 40%, at least through H1 2009.
We are continually reassessing the production plans for the businesses in the light of the weak global economic situation and end customer demand but, at this time, are comfortable with the scale of the cutbacks we have announced, however, their duration is uncertain.
We also anticipate that pressure on prices will remain.
In the present environment underlying cost growth pressures are abating somewhat, which should help the Groups efforts to control costs.
In 2009 the comparative stability of the Energy Division is likely to be evident with a relatively more secure demand for coal and power.
The 25% devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge in February 2009 has provided some benefit as a large part of our costs are incurred in tenge.
The devaluation will help ensure that we maintain our competitive cost position.
Any benefit from the devaluation will in part be offset by the foreign exchange forward hedge we have in place, as well as increased cost inflation and the growing incidence of pegging some supply prices to the US dollar.
We have made the decision to reaffirm our dividend policy of a payout ratio of 15%20% of earnings, until we have better visibility of the business cycle.
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
