Chief Executives review Experian performed well during a challenging year.
We delivered organic revenue growth across all four of our regions and all four of our principal activities, there were good profit and cash performances and we made excellent strategic progress, which positions us strongly for future growth.
These achievements are all the more significant for having been secured against one of the most challenging market environments for the financial services sector in the US and the UK in recent times.
Our performance attests to the commitment of our people, the strength of our market position, the global demand for our products and the balance and diversity of our portfolio.
Portfolio balance drives growth l Consumer Direct, which continues to be a major success as we build Resilience has been due to many on our global market-leading noteworthy performances, position.
including: l Our new media marketing activities, Decision Analytics, which which now account for nearly 50% of delivered strong growth in North America Marketing Services.
emerging markets and higher penetration of fraud prevention l New contract wins from major products.
clients, including Barclays, IBM Italia, Homeserve and GE Money.
Our business information activities, which have benefited l Strong demand for our from our commitment to new countercyclical products, including product innovation.
collections solutions and account management.
Don Robert Chief Executive Officer 6 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Chief Executives review 38 64 65 144 Managing our business in Over the past year we have more challenging times In January, we took action to ensure made significant progress to that we had the right cost structure in place for the prevailing business environment.
We announced a enable us to continue to drive programme of cost-efficiency measures, to deliver annualised profitable growth savings of US$80m.
In response to continuing challenging conditions, we have since identified additional Focus on data and analytics l Expansion of our infrastructure in opportunities and have raised Our core expertise is ownership Asia Pacific, which has contributed to the success of our Decision our estimate for annualised cost and operation of comprehensive Analytics activities in the region.
We now databases around the world and expect in the region of US$50m to enhancing the value of data through l Further progress in new vertical be realised in the year ending 31 the application of proprietary markets, with exciting new March 2009, with the full benefit analytics and software.
Our opportunities emerging in the UK thereafter.
One-off restructuring businesses are characterised by public sector, for example.
costs associated with achieving their market-leading positions, l Investment in new sources of data, these savings are now expected to high barriers to entry, global reach such as Visa transaction data, be in the region of US$140m.
and potential for long-term growth, and the acquisition of Hitwise, as well as their attractive financial which extends our position in new These additional measures include characteristics.
further restructuring of core credit and marketing activities and We review the composition of our l Development of new products infrastructure consolidation.
portfolio against these criteria in Consumer Direct for fraud prevention and identity protection.
As previously Evolving our strategy announced, PriceGrabber and l Investment in new analytics At Experian, we are fortunate to have Experians transaction processing activities, for example through many opportunities to drive growth, activities are under strategic review.
the acquisition of Tallyman, underpinned by global expansion in We have also indicated previously which extends our presence in demand for credit risk management that our acquisition strategy will collections software.
We have focus on opportunities that will bring l Investment in low cost development refined our strategic focus and have access to new data and analytics.
and delivery centres in Chile, India adopted a framework to: and Bulgaria.
Drive profitable growth l Focus on data and analytics.
Over the past year we have made In the year ending 31 March 2009, significant progress to enable us to we plan to invest through the l Drive profitable growth.
continue to drive profitable growth.
income statement at a rate similar l Optimise capital efficiency.
We aim to achieve this through to the prior year in new products, expansion of our global reach, a geographies and our people.
We have incorporated these three commitment to innovation and by elements in the recent execution of driving operational excellence.
Action in the year included: l The acquisition of a 70% stake in Serasa, which provides access to the emerging credit economy in Brazil, with significant opportunity to introduce value-added products.
Experian Annual Report 2008 7 Chief Executives review continued Optimise capital efficiency Experian is a strong We remain committed to maintaining an efficient balance sheet, consistent with a strong business performing well investment grade credit rating.
We will be flexible where warranted, in difficult markets for example, following the debtfinanced acquisition of Serasa in June 2007 our credit ratios rose above our target levels.
We considered this acceptable as a temporary position following a strategically important acquisition.
Since then, net debt has reduced from US$3.0bn to US$2.7bn as a Revenue Profit result of strong cash conversion.
2008 2007 2008 2007 12 months to 31 March US$m US$m US$m US$m We will continue to reinvest to retain competitive advantage and to 1 North America 2,061 1,985 608 573 make targeted acquisitions that fit 1,2 Latin America 324 5 75 4 our strategy and meet our financial UK and Ireland 965 843 226 212 hurdles.
We will review additional EMEA Asia Pacific 710 574 87 73 opportunities for returning surplus cash to shareholders, as credit ratios Sub total 4,059 3,407 995 855 return to levels consistent with a Central activities 57 47 strong investment grade credit rating.
Continuing activities 4,059 3,407 938 808 3 Discontinuing activities 71 85 7 18 Dividend For the year ended 31 March 2008, Total 4,130 3,492 945 825 we have announced a second dividend of 12.0 US cents per share Net interest 126 111 to give a full year dividend of 18.5 US cents per share, in line with our Benchmark PBT 819 714 objective to have cover based on Benchmark EPS of at least three Exceptional items 63 162 times on an annual basis.
The second Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 121 76 interim dividend will be paid on Goodwill expense 2 14 25 July 2008 to shareholders on the Charges for demerger-related equity incentive plans 49 24 register at the close of business on Financing fair value remeasurements 29 35 27 June 2008.
Tax expense of associate 6 9 Profit before taxation 549 394 Strengthening our Taxation 97 68 management team Our achievements are directly Profit after taxation for continuing operations 452 326 related to the quality and commitment of our people, and the Benchmark EPS US cents 60.3 59.7 strength of our senior leadership Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 43.3 35.1 team.
We have created two new Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 1,009 927 senior leadership roles to ensure 1 The segmental information presented in respect of the Americas for the year ended 31 March 2007 is now further that we operate our business more analysed to show North and Latin America as separate segments globally, in every respect, to meet 2 Profit includes US$11m Serasa integration charge for the year ended 31 March 2008 3 the growing needs of our clients.
Discontinuing activities include MetaReward, UK account processing and Loyalty Solutions 8 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Chief Executives review 38 64 65 144 Expanding Experians data assets with online competitive intelligence In June 2007, Experian acquired Hitwise, a leading online competitive intelligence service, operating in the US, UK, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Hong Kong.
Hitwise enables over 1,400 clients to benchmark their online performance against competitors and, most importantly, to uncover new business opportunities by understanding how people interact daily with over one million websites across 160 industries.
Over the next 18 months, Hitwise will be expanding its global footprint into new markets and launching a range of new online competitive intelligence tools to continue to help clients maximise their online marketing spend.
Chris Callero, who has successfully We continued to invest in the and while it is still too early to call a led and expanded our North business through the income turn in the US and the UK financial America and Latin America statement, capital expenditure and services markets, we have taken businesses, has been promoted acquisitions.
Capital expenditure the necessary steps to reduce to the role of President and Chief was US$344m, in line with previous costs and protect margins.
We also Operating Officer, Experian Group.
Acquisition expenditure expect strong performances in Victor Nichols, who joined Experian was US$1.7bn, including the 70% the current year in other Experian a year ago from Wells Fargo, has stake in Serasa, Hitwise, Tallyman, regions and in key business lines.
become CEO for the combined N4 Solutions and a number of In the meantime, we will keep a tight UK and EMEA region.
Acquisitions in the rein on costs, while continuing retains accountability for Marketing year are currently trading at least to invest in the long-term growth Services and Interactive globally.
to plan, and Serasa is on plan for of the business.
Experian is a revenue and exceeds EBIT buy plan.
business with excellent future Financial performance growth opportunities and we are Despite the market challenges, Summary highly confident about our future we delivered a good financial This has been a challenging year in prospects.
performance during the year: many ways.
The major disruption that took place in the financial l We delivered organic revenue services sector was unprecedented, growth of 4%.
impeding our revenue growth trajectory, but we delivered good l We delivered continuing EBIT margin profit and cash performances.
in line with the prior year at 21.8%.
Experian is a strong business l EBIT conversion into operating performing well in difficult markets, cash flow was 95%.
