Business Review Chief Executive Of ficer s Review Robust and r esilient After a year of strategic investment the Group is strongly positioned to face the challenges of economic circumstances.
Mark Abrahams - Chief Executive Officer INTRODUCTION The AEP Division is divided into five product This Business Review sets out the strategic group based businesses which are objectives of the Group and its businesses, managed on a global basis.
These as well as a review of progress in 2008, the businesses are as follows: outlook for 2009 and beyond and an Fenner Precision, which is a leading assessment of the key risks and supplier of performance critical polymer uncertainties.
components to the office automation industry: During the past year Fenner has Fenner Drives, which designs, strengthened its position as a world leader manufactures and sells an extensive in reinforced polymer technology through range of bespoke solutions for mechanical both acquisition and organic investment.
power transmission and motion transfer The aim of the Fenner businesses is to applications: deliver high quality, value added products The supply of silicone and EPDM and services to our customers.
Wherever speciality hoses for the diesel engine, possible we operate in niche markets which truck, bus and off-road equipment OEM enable the operations to avoid the highly market, trading as James Dawson: competitive, low margin commodity end of Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies the markets in which we operate.
"This ""FAST"" comprising hydraulic and common aim enables Fenner to deliver a pneumatic seals for the global fluid power solid basis for long term growth, stability industry, trading as Hallite and bespoke and shareholder value."
Fenner is proud to sealing products for process applications be a world class global manufacturer including oil and gas, electronics, pumps, operating in key territories in established valves, compressors and aerospace and emerging markets.
applications, trading as CDI EGC: and Technical textiles, trading as Prodesco The Fenner Group consists of two Divisions, and Secant Medical.
the Conveyor Belting CB Division and the Advanced Engineered Products AEP Prodesco, Inc together with its subsidiary Division.
Secant Medical, LLC, acquired in February 2008, not only brought a complementary The CB Division is a recognised world industrial textile business but also satisfied a leader in the global conveyor belting market, long term goal of entering into niche medical concentrating on heavyweight ply, solid applications which provide further exciting woven and steel cord conveyor belting for opportunities for AEP.
mining, power generation and industrial applications.
During the year, it has been Both CB and AEP provide high quality, expanding its service offering through comprehensive, whole life value products for organic growth and acquisitions to satisfy its their customers, and both have a strong customers' requirements from belt order to brand and reputation in their chosen installation and maintenance.
These characteristics are lightweight non-rubber conveyor belting considered to be key to the success of the operation, based in Charlotte, North Group over its long history.
Customer Carolina, was sold to Forbo Seigling, Inc a satisfaction is of importance to all business major force in that market and, although we units, who ensure they are meeting their divested manufacturing capability, strong customer expectations which are specific to strategic links remain.
Performance measurements Fenner PLC 5 Business Review Chief Executive Of ficer s Review continued include customer surveys and on time in from this dynamic business with strong full performance.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The FAST operations in China continue to do It has been a very exciting year for the well and additional manufacturing lines have Group with organic investment and been relocated from the Hampton site to acquisition activity in both Divisions which China ahead of plan.
The Hampton seals expand the product ranges, geographic operation was highly successful in securing coverage, routes to market, service offering new and additional business which enabled and market shares.
The investments and it to grow, notwithstanding the transfer of acquisitions ensure Fenner continues to business to China.
Other strategic initiatives grow its reputation as a specialist polymer progressed well during the year.
These engineering company and help it maintain included the geographical expansion of profitability throughout the economic cycle.
markets serviced with sales, technical and customer service teams recruited in China The acquired Secant Medical business is and Brazil and strengthened service teams the ideal custom manufacturing partner for across the globe.
the most demanding medical device engineering challenges.
Working with The CB operations in Australia have partners, both large and small, its received both major organic and acquisition experience with specialised biocompatible investment.
A planned investment in a new medical textile structures is aimed to help steel cord facility is now underway in Perth, bring new biomedical device ideas to Western Australia.
This facility is located to market.
Prodesco produces highly service the fast growing iron ore sector of specialised technical fabrics for the Australian economy which, together with performance critical applications in coal, are the main trading and export industrial, aerospace and chemical sectors for Australia.
There have also been equipment markets.
The Prodesco and strategic acquisitions of service businesses Secant Medical businesses will remain in Darwin and Whyalla which service the autonomous operations within the Group.
Northern Territories and the multi-mineral ore bodies in South Australia respectively.
These The other acquisitions for AEP were B-LOC have added to the successful Fenner and Winfield Industries.
B-LOC, which has Dunlop Conveyor Services business already been fully integrated into the Fenner Drives operating in Australia.
Leading with a focus business of AEP in Manheim, is a leading on safety, the expertise and strength of the supplier of multi-screw keyless bushings and service team and management continues complements the existing Fenner Drives the strategy to maintain the broadest range.
It has opened up channels to market national coverage in Australia and to ensure for both the historical Fenner Drives and that the operation is well placed to take B-LOC products.
Winfield Industries is advantage of opportunities in the regions recognised as a leading supplier of with significant mining growth.
performance critical rollers for digital imaging applications and allows Fenner Precision to The success of the service model in gain access to the rapidly growing market for Australia is being leveraged in the Americas digital printing presses.
With a significant with the acquisitions of King Energy market share in the mature inkjet market, this Services in Colorado, King Energy Services acquisition enables Fenner Precision to offer in New Mexico, the Conveyor Services an unrivalled range of technical capability, Corporation group of companies and Solid products and experience to the global office Systems Engineering.
These businesses will automation market.
form the backbone of the Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services business for North The seals manufacturing operation in America.
Work is underway to integrate Houston completed the major factory these businesses into the Group.
Not only is expansion ahead of schedule.
Not only did it Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services the successfully integrate the EGC business into largest belt servicing business focused on the new facility on budget but also outthe mining industry but the locations of our performed the plan throughout the process.
branches also align with those of our The improved layout and investment in customers.
The strength of the service equipment has seen efficiencies and margins business will support the wider product improve at the combined facility, which is now offering from the expanded Fenner Dunlop state of the art, and provides the springboard Americas manufacturing operation.
Further, for further growth and market diversification experience suggests the service business is 6 Fenner PLC counter cyclical to belt sales, helping to The global demand for bulk commodities ensure that the CB operation has some including iron ore, copper, potash and the protection from market cycles.
demand for power, in the form of coal, helped to ensure that the global CB CB has also invested in a significant number operations had a strong year with increased of manufacturing plants with the continuation demand and improved return on sales, of the investment in the North American particularly in Europe, Australia and China.
plants in Port Clinton and Toledo together North American operations had strong order with the construction of a purpose built, books through the year but were impacted bespoke weaving operation in Hart County, somewhat by pricing constraints and raw Georgia.
These new facilities will improve material price volatility.
Price increases are flexibility and efficiencies in both production being implemented where possible and the and energy consumption and reduce waste.
operations work closely with suppliers and As well as extending the product range, customers to help facilitate and build on the capacity constraints of prior years, strong relationships in the supply chain.
particularly for steel cord belting, will also be eased.
Coupled with our new plant, the Volume constraints have driven service business acquisitions mean that internationally traded coal prices to an all Fenner Dunlop Americas not only time high, as shown in the McCloskey graph manufactures the full range of products below.
Over the last three years coal prices required by our customers but also has have remained comfortably over the locations close by, offering comprehensive trigger value at which coal companies buy service and support.
The volume of coal being mined continues to increase as demand for energy Investment in the South African operation in China, India and South East Asia remains was also completed in the year with the strong, together with a desire in the US to be installation of a steel cord line to enable it to independent from energy suppliers, supply both the domestic and export particularly for oil.
Following investment in the are located in less politically fragile markets.
previous year, China saw the introduction of Whilst prices have probably peaked, the a range of Dunlop branded belts, volume demand for coal remains bullish and successfully targeted at broadening the the long term outlook remains good.
NW Europe - Steam Coal Marker As a diversified Group, Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from traditional cotton yarns to the latest perfluoroelastomers.
Not only do we use significant volumes of some materials, we also work closely with selected suppliers to ensure that our customers benefit from the latest technical developments in materials and processes.
Most of these relationships are in the normal course of business, ensuring quality, continuity of supply and reasonable Monthly Average commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and usually relating to technical developments, With the additional steel cord capacity, other relationships are formally documented.
minerals, particularly iron ore, become more important to Fenner and, almost without CONVEYOR BELTING exception, volumes and prices have been Most of the CB operations experienced strong throughout the year.
positive trading conditions through the year under review although all faced a variety of ADVANCED ENGINEERED PRODUCTS challenges including the effects of volatile raw All operations within AEP aim to provide material prices and availability, competitive high value added solutions to their threats and availability of skilled labour.
customers needs using advanced Capacity constraints of prior years have been polymeric materials, expertise in application addressed and, where new constraints have design, effective manufacturing design skills arisen, are being addressed with the result and timely delivery.
that the operations are well placed to defend their position in the markets.
