Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report 2008 was a year of considerable achievement but Our key watchwords in running the business in these was also affected by a very difficult external difficult times are prudence and conservatism.
applies to our control of costs, to our aim to conserve cash and to our decision to rebase the dividend to a We achieved our strongest ever ports trading more conservative level of cover.
performance and levels of growth: we formed a strategic joint venture in the renewable energy sector The underlying ports operating profit increased by with a good pipeline of potential projects: and we 23% in 2008 to 47.6m 2007 38.7m, our best achieved planning consent for the largest property ever performance from our ports business with our development ever proposed in the City of Edinburgh.
operations in both Tilbury and Scotland performing strongly.
The result from the Nordic group of Inevitably, the year was materially impacted by a companies Nordic was earnings enhancing, number of external factors, notably the growing although disappointing, with profitability being economic downturn, the banking and liquidity crisis adversely affected by incremental costs and, in the and, of most relevance, the severe decline and virtual last quarter of 2008, by the fall in commodity prices shutdown of established property markets.
In the at the Materials Recycling Facility MRF in Tilbury.
face of this, we have taken decisive action to control cash spend and to extend the term of our financing The property division successfully achieved outline facilities.
We are pleased to report that the Groups planning approval from City of Edinburgh Council principal net debt was refinanced in December 2008 CEC for the Leith Docks Outline Planning for a period of over three years to June 2012 and Application LDOPA.
This approval was given in interest rates were locked in for three years at a less than twelve months which is a great credit to our significantly lower level than the average rate charged staff who managed the process and also reflects the in 2008. hard work of the planning officials within CEC.
We have therefore entered 2009 with a secure, As indicated in our pre-close trading statement, the profitable, cash generative and well diversified ports property downturn had a major effect on the business, a property portfolio which continues to independent valuation of our development assets.
have significant long-term potential although from a Debenham Tie Leung DTZ, our Valuers, ascribed 04 much reduced base in market value terms and with a Market Value of 60m to these assets as at 31st a secure financing position.
December 2008 2007 282m and now deem about 80% of the development land bank to have We are committed to developing a platform for no immediate development value.
This similarly growth from our strong asset base.
We will also impacted the Calculation of Worth which is now deliver excellent levels of service and seek to 82m 2007 408m.
The effect of the property enhance the quality of our customer base and downturn, notably the rise in property market yields, contracts.
We believe that growth will come from all also resulted in a decrease in the value of our of our principal activities Ports, Property, Waste and investment properties, most of which are secure Renewable Energy.
With the refinancing in place, and the significant capital investment in recent years, we believe we are well placed to deal with a challenging year in 2009.
