Dear Shareholders, In this milestone year in its development, the Fresnillo Group delivered on its commitments to stakeholders by generating strong and stable production, successfully growing the reserve and resource base, advancing its development projects and expanding the platform for future growth.
We also benefited from higher averMr Jaime Lomeln age metal prices compared to 2007 whilst containing Chief Executive Officer costs and expenses, leading to year-on-year growth in revenue and EBITDA.
Market conditions were notably less stable.
The first half of 2008 was characterised by strong demand and high metal prices, as well as significant cost pressures.
In the latter months of the year however, global economic uncertainty led to unusual volatility in exchange rates and a reduction in metal prices as well as the cost of certain raw materials and services.
Gold averaged US$871.71 per ounce in the year, compared to US$696.70 in 2007, whilst the average silver price was US$14.99, compared to US$13.41.
For the first nine months of the year, the exchange rate of the Mexican peso against the US dollar remained relatively stable at MXN10.52 per US dollar, whereas in the last quarter the average was MXN13.00 per US dollar, closing at MXN13.54 per US dollar.
Mexican inflation reached its highest point since 2000, and was 276 basis points higher than 2007, at 6.53%.
A full analysis of market conditions is set out on pages 12-17 of the Business Review.
These external uncertainties are standard in our industry [see Risks and Uncertainties on pages 44-49: however, our responsibility as stewards of your investment is to create value across precious metal cycles in order to deliver long-term profitable growth.
STRONG FOUNDATION The fundamentals of our business have never been stronger.
At the core are our world-class assets: the largest primary silver mine in the world and two established gold mines, where we have consistently and substantially replaced and expanded ore reserves, even whilst increasing our production levels.
As at 31 December 2008, we had double-digit reserve life at our mines and attributable reserves of 410.0 million ounces of silver and 4.1 million ounces of gold.
These are significant increases over the previous year, reflecting the success of our exploration strategy.
4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Second, we have talented and experienced employees who emrevenues increased to US$720.5m, 11.2% higher than at 31 fidebody the Groups values of trust, responsibility, integrity and loycember 2007, EBITDA rose 21.7% in the year and net profit was alty.
Of our 2,966-strong workforce, 1,030 are contractors, and 5.1% lower.
We enjoy transparent and respectful relationships with the national labour unions, and particularly close and We received proceeds of the 3.0 million ounces of silver produced strong relations with the local branches.
Our human resources at the Sabinas polymetallic mine, from the Silverstream Arrangeand labour policies are fully described in the Sustainable Develments [see Significant Relationships in the Directors Report on opment Report on pages 28-35 and risks associated with empage 68].
The US$31.7m cash received in 2008 is not reflected as ployee relationships are described in Risks and Uncertainties on revenue in the income statement, but rather credited against the pages 44-49. carrying value of the asset.
Third, our disciplined growth strategy, predicated both upon conFull details of our operating and financial performance are set out in solidating prime mining districts in order to leverage our existing the Business Review sections on pages 18-27 and 36-43, respectively.
infrastructure, and identifying greenfield opportunities utilising strict financial and operational return criteria, has provided us ONGOING COST REDUCTION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES with a broad-based growth pipeline.
As at 31 December 2008, our Our performance is measured by more than production figures total attributable resources included 1,115.9 million ounces of or financial statements.
Operational excellence requires that we silver 2007: 837 million ounces and 12.0 million ounces of gold constantly pursue opportunities to improve efficiency and con- 2007: 9.5 million ounces.
This includes investment in the training of our personnel, efficient procurement of supplies and services, preLast, we have a strong balance sheet that currently carries no ventive maintenance, greater automation and advanced technoldebt, and a sound cash position that allows us to invest the necogy, as well as the implementation of control systems, processes essary resources in the development programmes and exploration and mining methods that enhance productivity.
projects that represent the Groups future.
We continue to monitor our cash outflows on capex, exploration and other expenses These are ongoing efforts, and they are particularly important to avoid over-extending our balance sheet.
In an economic enviin an environment of increasing cost pressures.
To this end, ronment such as todays, this financial position also strengthens we took several measures in 2008 that will yield results in the our purchasing power and opens up additional value-creation opnear future: portunities to grow by accretive acquisition whilst maintaining appropriate controls over the use of cash.
o At Fresnillo, a sewage water treatment plant is being built that will lower the cost of process water and bring environ- 2008 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY mental benefits to the community when operations start Total silver production rose 1.0% to 34.8 million ounces in 2008, up by year-end 2009, and engineering was completed on a new record for the Fresnillo Group.
At Fresnillo and Cinega, the new San Carlos shaft that is expected to reduce haulage ore throughput was slightly higher than in 2007, in line with our costs once completed in 2012. programmes.
Mine development in 2008 was 32.3km in Fresnillo, o At Cinega, work began on sinking the shaft an additional which was 22.3% above 2007 and 14.8km in Cinega which was 300 metres to provide access to deeper ore reserves: we are 78.3% above 2007.
This allowed us to gradually increase the numexpanding and optimising the leaching circuit in order to ber of production stopes, improve ore feed into the concentraincrease metal recoveries: and we acquired a Knelson gravitors and convert resources into reserves.
At Herradura there was a metric concentrator to further boost gold recovery.
substantial 25.2% increase in ore deposited at the leaching pads o At Herradura, a new pumping system was installed to into 13.6 million tonnes.
crease leaching efficiency to recover additional gold values in the ore deposited: expansions were approved to the treatThe combination of stable production and higher average metal ment plant to ensure continuous treatment of ore: and engiprices drove adjusted revenues 6.9% higher in the year.
Total neering for the seventh leaching pad was completed.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 5 FRESNILLO PLC To evaluate the overall effectiveness of our efficiency measures, ramping up to 2,500 tpd by integrating the Saucito, Mezquite, we control consumption of key inputs per unit of production.
In Madroo and Jarillas veins during the initial development stage of 2008, for every tonne of ore milled, we reduced consumption of the project.
Exploration of the Valdecaas East and Santa Natalia energy, water and explosives.
veins will continue and later be integrated into Saucito.
We have traditionally been able to keep production costs low Significant progress at Saucito was achieved in 2008, including by controlling labour, maintenance, repair, energy and operating construction work on two shafts and ramps and initial engineering material costs.
Our cost reduction initiatives include better proof the 2,500 tpd mill capacity, tailings dam and other mine infracurement, mechanisation, workforce training on efficient mining structure.
A prefeasibility study for the first stage of the Saucito methods, and selective outsourcing to contractors.
In 2008, parproject will be delivered during the first half of 2009. ticularly in the latter months of the year, we started to benefit from declining unit costs for steel, explosives and mining equipAlso in the Fresnillo District, in 2009 Minera Juanicipio 56% ment, a trend that continues into 2009. owned by Fresnillo plc and 44% by MAG Silver Corporation will continue to explore the Valdecaas, Juanicipio and other veins With respect to electricity, until 1 July 2008 we had a contract which are all within the Minera Juanicipio claim.
The Minera Juaniwith Termoelctrica Peoles for committed power allocation on cipio board approved a budget for a scoping study for a standbeneficial terms.
As anticipated, once the contract expired our alone mine: this study will be completed by May 2009. electricity costs increased substantially to the prevailing market price.
Thus, whilst in line with our expectations, the Groups Our investment in longer term growth was backed by US$53.5 electricity costs were higher in the current period than in 2007. million in brownfield and greenfield exploration in 2008, a 15% The Mexican government announced an initiative in 2009 to reincrease over the original budget following Board approval in Sepduce electricity costs between 6% and 20%.
tember to proceed more rapidly in light of encouraging results at our pipeline of advanced prospects.
San Julin in particular yieldWe also benefit from efficient procurement of supplies and sered more resources than expected, whilst mineralisation at San vices through our transitional services agreement with Servicios Juan and Orisyvo was in line with our programme.
Peoles the SIPSA Agreement [see Significant Relationships in the Directors Report on page 68].
In addition to our organic growth strategy, we are pursuing the expansion of our resource base through joint ventures and acquiINVESTING IN GROWTH sitions, with a particular focus on consolidating claims within our Whilst production from our three operating mines will continue mining districts.
Transactions this year included: to position the Fresnillo Group as a top precious metals producer, we are also moving forward aggressively on developing two o In May, a joint venture agreement signed with International new mines, Soledad-Dipolos and Saucito, which will advance our Northair Mines Ltd to explore a group of gold-silver bearing growth objectives in the near term.
veins in Durango State, a project in which Fresnillo plc can gain up to an 80% interest through incrementally funding The Board approved the capex investment for the development exploration and other costs, expected to be no more than of the Soledad-Dipolos project in September.
It will be an open US$2.3 million, over a four year option period.
pit gold mine with similar average ore grade to Herradura, at 0.7 o In December, through our Minera Penmont venture with g t. Operations are due to begin in 2010.
It is expected to proNewmont, the acquisition of the Noche Buena gold projduce at a peak rate of approximately 100,000 ounces of gold per ect in Sonora, Mexico for US$25 million in cash, with a furyear.
Advances made this year included engineering, permits, inther US$5 million to be paid once commercial production frastructure construction, initial stripping, equipment orders and commences, and a 1.5% net smelter return payable on all personnel training.
production sold whenever the monthly average gold price is US$800 per ounce or higher.
Based on our preliminary development plan, Saucito is expected o In December, an expression of intent to make a formal offer to be a world-class silver mine, with operations scheduled to bewas issued to MAG Silver shareholders for all outstanding gin by 2011 in the Saucito area at an initial rate of 500 tpd and common shares of MAG Silver, our minority 44% partner 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT in Minera Juanicipio within the Fresnillo District.
Fresnillo a 21% decrease from the 2008 allocation, but our focus will be plc and its affiliates already hold a 19.83% equity stake in on mining districts with the best potential and most immediate MAG Silver.
The valuation process required by the Ontario results.
We will also actively consider accretive acquisition opSecurities Commission OSC was initiated in mid-January portunities in both early-stage and more advanced projects whilst 2009, however in February 2009 Fresnillo was notified by strictly maintaining our strategic and financial return criteria.
AlMAG Silver that the valuation process had been suspended.
though capex and early-stage exploration programmes will reFresnillo has asked the staff of OSC to review the MAG Silmain under constant review, we will continue to invest in operatver decision and it is our intention to take the necessary ing efficiencies that, combined with our cost control initiatives, steps to enable MAG Silver shareholders to receive the offer should help protect margins.
in compliance with all laws.
The Board will decide whether to proceed with a formal offer once this matter is resolved.
As a management team, we are mindful of the balance we must maintain between short-term tactical adjustments to be made CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY - FUNDAMENTAL TO SUCCESS in the face of current conditions, and the longer-term  to the community is an integral part of the Fresments of implementing the Groups strategic growth objectives.
Our commitment includes ensuring the In that regard, I am confident that the Group is well positioned health and safety of our employees, meeting international stanto become the worlds leading silver producer and consolidate its dards in environmental management practices, and protecting the position as Mexicos second largest gold producer, whilst deliverinterests of future generations through a well structured corpoing value for shareholders both in the shortand long-term.
rate social responsibility programme in every community where we operate.
In 2008, we invested a combined US$0.8 million in In closing, I would like to extend my appreciation to the Chairman our sustainability programmes.
and members of the Board for their continued support and strategic direction, and to our people for their hard work and dedication Details of the Groups sustainability programmes may be found in throughout the year.
the Sustainable Development Report on pages 28-35.
THE YEAR AHEAD Whilst we remain positive on the long-term evolution of precious Jaime Lomeln metals prices, we expect the global slowdown to reduce overall Chief Executive Officer demand for precious metals in 2009.
We anticipate 2009 production as follows: o Fresnillo: in line with 2008 production o Cinega: in line with 2008 production o Herradura: small increase over 2008 production Whilst production levels in 2009 could marginally improve, our focus will be on improving our cost efficiency.
We anticipate 2009 development as follows: o Soledad-Dipolos: construction completed at year-end o Saucito: prefeasibility study: assessment of material that can be mined within the next three to five years: continued exploration, resources upgrade and expansion.
Our financial strength will enable us to continue investing in exploration activities: US$42.5 million has been budgeted for 2009, 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 7 FRESNILLO PLC
