Sir Kevin Smith Chief Executive Chief Executives Statement increased demand on a range of programmes.
Delays 2008 Performance were experienced in a number of customer development Against a background of a more uncertain economic programmes, particularly the Boeing 787 and Airbus environment, GKN entered 2008 with a positive outlook.
A400M, which were largely offset by sales of new products Our strategic restructuring of Driveline was complete, such as the winglets for the Boeing 767 in-service fleet and rebalancing our geographic footprint towards high early production activity on programmes such as the Joint growth markets: our order books were buoyant across Strike Fighter.
all divisions: and in Aerospace our excellent positioning on new aircraft and engine programmes was set to Our achievements provide momentum for continuing strong growth.
The 2008 headlines for GKN will record the impact of a Our first half performance underscored our confidence.
severe global recession on profitability and jobs.
Behind The North American automotive market had already those headlines GKN people have much to be proud of softened significantly and cost pressures had intensified in their achievements during the year.
with huge increases in raw material and energy costs.
In Automotive the worlds most advanced traction Despite these headwinds, Group revenues subsidiaries and joint ventures before favourable currency control system with GKN technology at its core took translation were up 9%, Group profit before tax was up to the road to wide acclaim on the new BMW X6.
5% and operating cash flow had also improved.
GKNs power distribution and control technology was recognised with Nissans Global Innovation Award for Although some weakening of automotive sales was our contribution to the Nissan GT-R. expected, the worlds automotive industry has been stunned by the speed of the collapse in demand for its Our mild hybrid e-motor technology received its first products in all parts of the world as the emerging global customer award from a European manufacturer, building recession took hold.
on our market leadership position in Japan, and we supported a European customer with the design and For GKNs Automotive business, including Powder development of its first all wheel drive platform which Metallurgy, overall activity levels fell in the fourth will provide substantial future business for GKN.
quarter by around 40% from June and the business was loss making in the last two months of the year.
Swift and Once again our driveshafts operation won the majority wide ranging action has been implemented to reposition of new business which came to market, with a 77% the business for a sustained period of severely win rate further enhancing its market share.
New manufacturing plants were opened in China, India depressed global demand.
and Turkey by Driveline and in Argentina by Sinter Between October and the year end we had reduced our Metals and are now operating to GKNs world class global workforce by 2,800 people, this in addition to manufacturing standards, further enhancing our global a reduction of 600 employees in North America earlier footprint.
Short-time working programmes were Aerospace made further significant progress in 2008 implemented globally and extended shut-down periods introduced in all 63 automotive plants worldwide.
The and is now Europes leading aerostructures company.
Groups focus on managing short term cash flow has Successful new programme development, making been intensified, with particular attention being paid extensive use of composite materials and proprietary to working capital and all elements of discretionary manufacturing technology, has supported the launch expenditure.
Investment programmes, particularly of the Boeing 787, Airbus A380 and a range of other capital plant and machinery procurement, have also important aerospace programmes.
Northrop Grumman been curtailed or delayed.
rolled out its first prototype carrier-capable unmanned combat aircraft with GKN contributing around 80% of Elsewhere, in the Groups non-automotive businesses, the manufactured aircraft and much of the structural and against a backdrop of more supportive markets, design.
We are pleased to have secured a $2 billion performance has been excellent.
order with Airbus for a very significant package of major composite wing structures for the A350, and the OffHighway sales and profits achieved record levels.
formation of a UK-based technology joint venture with Revenues, before favourable currency, improved by Rolls-Royce to co-develop and manufacture composite 17% and profits, similarly, were up by 18%.
Demand fan blades for their next generation aero engines was for agricultural machinery was healthy throughout another exciting milestone.
the year and the heavy construction and mining equipment sectors also remained supportive.
The light The acquisition of the Airbus wing component and construction, industrial and leisure equipment segments, sub-assembly facility at Filton, Bristol, completed on which account for 15% of OffHighway revenues, have 5 January 2009, marked the end of a momentous year for progressively weakened through the year.
A new supply and technology partnership with Airbus and a world class aerostructures manufacturing Aerospace had another really excellent year.
Revenues, facility creates significant new opportunities as we before favourable currency, increased by 15% and continue on our path to become the world-leading first tier profits, similarly, by 20%.
The acquisition of the Teleflex supplier in the development and manufacture of airframe aero engine component business, which has now been and engine structural components.
successfully integrated, accounted for 5% of the sales improvement and the division delivered strong organic growth.
The military market was particularly buoyant with 2 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 2 09 03 2009 14:16 09 03 2009 14:16 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Welcome Chief Executives Statement Although we expect 2009 to be a very challenging year, GKNs financial position is sound and actions taken to reduce costs and improve cash ow should position us to bene t strongly when markets recover.
Technology right for the times Restructuring In addition to the restructuring actions taken in the In 2009 we celebrate our 250th birthday and it is final quarter of 2008, global headcount will be reduced right that we take time out to reflect on our heritage.
further in 2009 by around 2,400 people, of which around Indeed we have much to be proud of.
Our history is 300 had already left the Group by the end of January.
rich with manufacturing invention and innovation and A number of manufacturing sites will be closed and our future relies on our ability to continue to develop short-time working and plant shut-downs implemented new technology and new products for a new world.
low carbon global economy provides huge potential for GKN new lightweight mechatronic drivelines, The programme will be completed by July 2010 and lightweight high strength net shape components from cash costs of approximately 140 million and non-cash Powder Metallurgy, and complex lightweight aircraft and asset impairments of approximately 150 million will engine structures for the next generation of fuel efficient, be incurred.
The plan is expected to reduce full year low emission aircraft.
In this report you will read about operating costs by approximately 190 million.
technologies, products and processes which build on our history and provide a major opportunity for GKN to stamp GKNs businesses its imprint on a new and exciting low carbon world.
Production volumes in the Groups Automotive and Powder Metallurgy businesses have been particularly Quality and capability soft in the first quarter as vehicle manufacturers reduce Clearly 2008 has been a very challenging year and 2009 inventories and realign output with consumer demand.
We have had much to do to Some recovery is expected from the second quarter reposition ourselves to survive and prosper through the onward and the Group will increasingly benefit from its most severe global recession in modern times.
GKN supplies highly engineered products for almost half OffHighway sales are expected to fall as demand of all automobiles manufactured across the globe and declines rapidly through the second quarter.
almost all aircraft in production worldwide.
Our people Aerospace sales are expected to continue to grow achieve world class standards of quality and our health strongly as the Filton acquisition is consolidated into and safety record is world leading.
I am proud of every the division.
one of them and deeply regret the difficult actions we have had to take over the last few months.
GKN has much If sterling were to remain at current levels against major to be proud of in its long history and as our markets international currencies, there would be a translational recover we will be positioned for a strong future.
Financing 2009 Outlook The Group entered 2009 with net debt of 708 million.
Markets and Environments EBITDA net interest cover was 8 times, well ahead of The outlook for our major markets is both challenging the 3.5 times required by our one banking covenant on and uncertain as the global economic recession continues committed facilities.
to severely impact demand in most of our end markets.
Outlook The outlook for Automotive production is extremely Although we expect 2009 to be a very challenging year, uncertain.
Forecasters expect weakness across virtually GKNs financial position is sound and actions taken to all regions with global light vehicle output to fall within reduce costs and improve cash flow should position us to a range of 55 to 59 million vehicles a decline of benefit strongly when markets recover.
OffHighway markets have weakened over the last few months and forecasters now expect a substantial decline in demand for heavy construction, mining and agricultural equipment.
Military aircraft demand is expected to remain solid through the year.
In the civil Sir Kevin Smith sector, regional and business jet demand has fallen Chief Executive sharply and some reduction in production rates for large civil aircraft is expected in the second half.
indd 3 09 03 2009 14:16 09 03 2009 14:16 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 From a single blast furnace fuelling a tiny iron works on the Welsh hillside, GKN has evolved over two and a half centuries to hold its place at the forefront of the engineering industry.
GKNs geographic expansion started in 1921 with its first venture overseas to New South Wales, Australia, followed by a significant expansion into India in 1934.
Today the Group operates in over 30 countries, from the US West Coast to the eastern shores of Japan, from northern China throughout Europe to South Africa, Brazil and Australia.
In 2008, GKN opened new facilities in China, India, Turkey and Argentina, further enhancing its global footprint.
In the beginning... 1759 1767 1854 1856 1900 1902 1920 1966 Dowlais Iron Co. John Guest John Nettlefold The Patent Nut Dowlais and PNB Company Acquisition of Interest in established in appointed opens a and Bolt Co. PNB combine to form acquires Joseph Sankey & Uni-Cardan South Wales works manager woodscrew mill is founded by Guest, Keen & Co. Nettlefolds Sons, supplier to acquired giving at Dowlais in Smethwick Arthur Keen and and is renamed the motor industry access to the with Joseph Francis Watkins Guest, Keen and CVJ market Chamberlain Snr Nettlefolds, Ltd Throughout its history, GKN has used advancements in process and material technologies to deliver leading edge products to its customers.
In 1856 the Dowlais Iron Co. acquired the first British licence to use the new Bessemer process for making steel.
The process, which enabled molten pig-iron to be turned into steel by blowing air through it in a tilting converter, revolutionised the manufacture of steel.
In 2008, GKN developed a new generation of pre-alloyed steel powder for use in the manufacture of sintered components.
The powder has a lower alloy content than traditional alloyed powder yet offers improved compressibility and performance allowing manufacture of higher strength, more complex components.
4 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 4 09 03 2009 14:16 09 03 2009 14:16 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Welcome 250 Years of GKN Constant velocity joints CVJs revolutionised the motor industry in the 1960s enabling the manufacture of a new generation of front wheel drive cars, including the iconic Mini.
GKN has since developed breakthrough CVJ technologies which reduce weight and improve driveline efficiency.
In 2008, GKN partnered a European car manufacturer to develop its first application of an electric rear axle for hybrid vehicle use.
The technology offers improved fuel efficiency and the option of an all electric drive mode with zero emissions.
1974 1986 1988 1997 2001 2004 2009 GKN Chep Ltd, Name changed 29.9% stake Acquisition of Demerger of GKN sells Acquisition a pallet pooling to GKN plc to acquired in Sinter Metals Inc. industrial services its interest in of Filton wing business, is reflect the change Westland.
AgustaWestland component and established with in composition Majority control of powder Creation of the for more than sub-assembly Brambles of of the Groups achieved in 1994 metallurgy AgustaWestland 1 billion facility from Airbus Australia businesses business joint venture... more recently GKN Aerospace can trace its origins to 1901 and Sam Saunders, an aviation pioneer responsible for patenting a revolutionary technique of constructing lightweight material which was widely used in the manufacture of aircraft until the 1950s.
Today our business continues to pioneer the use of new materials and process technologies.
In 2008, GKN secured a significant order to design and produce major composite wing structures using the latest material and automated manufacturing technologies for the next generation of fuel efficient, low emission aircraft.
