GSK Annual Report 2008 3 Chairman and CEO summary 2008 marked a turning point for GSK and we are now in a pivotal Strategic priorities period of change as we redefine our business model to increase In 2008 we established our three strategic priorities to: grow a sales growth, reduce risk and deliver long-term sustainable financial diversified global business: deliver more products of value: and performance to shareholders.
Financial performance These priorities are designed to radically transform our business by We are pleased with the response of the business to what we always reducing our relative dependence on small molecule pharmaceuticals knew would be a challenging 12 months, due to the adverse impact in developed Western markets.
We expect to see an increase in of significant US patent expiries and further decline in Avandia sales.
the relative importance of our emerging markets and Japanese As anticipated, these factors led to a decline in earnings per share businesses and an increasingly greater contribution to our business EPS for the year, which was compounded by an unexpected legal from vaccines and consumer products.
We also anticipate a charge in the fourth quarter.
growing capability to deliver more products of value from R&D which will not only deliver benefits to patients but will also more Total sales for the year were 24.4 billion, down 3% in constant readily meet payers needs and therefore enable us to achieve more exchange rate CER terms, and EPS excluding major restructuring rapid, reimbursed product approvals.
Our expanded restructuring was 104.7p, a decrease of 9% over 2007 in CER terms.
Cash programme, which is expected to deliver annual savings of generation remains strong, with net cash inflow from operating 1.7 billion by 2011, is a vital catalyst of this change.
activities of 7.2 billion, up 17% in sterling terms.
These priorities and the progress we made to implement them The Board declared a dividend for the year of 57p, up from 53p for during 2008 are explained on the following pages.
During the year we completed share repurchases of 3.7 billion.
more information, including regular updates on progress as we We do not expect to make any significant repurchases in 2009.
Our move through 2009, by visiting our website at www.
com financial strategy remains to maintain an efficient balance sheet, while using cash resources to invest in our strategic priorities and increase Changes to the Board returns to shareholders through our progressive dividend policy.
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz will retire from the Board after the Annual General Meeting.
We thank them for their The performance of our core pharmaceuticals business and the dedicated service to the Boards of GSK and our heritage companies increasing diversification of its sales base are important indicators of and for the valuable contributions they have made to our business.
Our pharmaceutical turnover declined 3% in CER terms, reflecting the adverse impact of generic competition to our In May 2009, we welcome James Murdoch to the Board, as a Nonpatented products and lower Avandia and pandemic product sales.
As the Chairman and Chief Executive of News Excluding genericised products, Avandia and pandemic products, Corporation Europe and Asia, James brings great experience and which have significant sales volatility, the remaining pharmaceuticals expertise to our boardroom, which will be particularly evident in business delivered 16.4 billion in sales and grew by 10% in CER his role as a member of GSKs Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Within this, vaccines sales rose by 20% to 2.47 billion.
Outlook Our sales in emerging markets grew by 12% to 2.3 billion.
Sales in Asia We enter 2009 with confidence and expect to make further good Pacific and Japan totalled 1.9 billion: we are now moving into a phase progress in implementing our strategic priorities that will enable of converting our extensive pipeline in Japan into approved medicines.
us to meet our long-term objective of reducing risk and delivering sustainable growth to shareholders.
In 2008, we continued the good work of the previous year and launched 12 pharmaceutical products including vaccines.
We are Finally, we would especially like to recognise the enormous now also starting to see good traction with our new pharmaceutical contribution of our employees and our wide network of partners.
products launched in the last two years, which contributed sales of Their willingness, energy and enthusiasm for change are strong almost 0.8 billion during the year.
foundations on which to build our new business model.
Improved productivity and disciplined allocation of capital are key elements of our R&D strategy.
We currently have around 30 assets in our late-stage pipeline, a level we aim to sustain.
The augmentation of our pipeline, over the past few years, has been accomplished without substantial increases in total R&D expenditure.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty Sales in Consumer Healthcare were just under 4 billion and we are Chairman Chief Executive Officer making good progress with our strategy of investment in innovation, acquisitions and marketing excellence in this area of our business.
To find out more visit us at Constant exchange rates CER are explained on page 16. www.
