Business review Chief executives review I am pleased to report another strong to protect and grow their share of discretionary Although all our divisions have performed spending, and on-trade beer sales will be well in difficult circumstances, I am set of results for Greene King.
For the under considerable pressure.
But there are particularly encouraged by Belhavens result.
financial year 2007 08, revenue was a number of our sales categories that continue Scotlands smoking ban came over a year up 5% at 960.5m, operating profit to grow, including eating out, premium drinks before Englands.
In the second year of the up 8% at 236.2m and profit before and accommodation: and newer consumer Scottish smoking ban, the Belhaven team groups continue to be attracted to our outlets.
have developed the business signicantly tax up 2% at 142.0m.
This has towards food and families, and delivered led to adjusted earnings per share We are well placed to face the challenges.
up 14% to 74.0p, and has allowed We remain focused on what is most important the board to recommend a full-year in our business: high-quality, good-value food and drink in the unique setting of the British dividend up 14% to 26.0p.
We have never chased sales for their own sake, but rather sustainable profit growth Pub and restaurant retailing delivered over the long term reected in our strong encouraging growth in sales and profit.
We maintain a balance sheet with Pub Partners grew in both revenue and margins.
comfortable headroom, asset-backed by a Our key beer brands achieved significant well-invested and overwhelmingly freehold growth again, despite the declining ale market.
We continue to generate healthy free cash ow, and have a long-term record Common to all our businesses have been of doing what is required to deliver the themes of: industry-leading results.
Delivering quality and value for money Over the past two years, we have been implementing an accelerated programme of Mitigating cost increases and reducing change, to optimise our position relative to the xed-cost base expected market developments.
A significant part of the estate has been churned and we Growing sales in strategic categories have continued to add quality sustainable outlets and brought in further expertise via Investing for future growth Hardys & Hansons and Loch Fyne.
Food sales now stand at 34% of our Retail revenues: Trading conditions have become more difficult.
adding in food-related drink sales, our dining We are a year into the English smoking ban revenue now accounts for half of the total.
and consumer confidence is at its lowest for In ales we focus on a small number of brands As throughout this document, the profit gures are 18 years.
We have faced major cost increases that can lead their categories.
We have shown before exceptional items.
The results are across a wide range of categories.
Looking rationalised the cost base in all businesses: positively impacted by an additional weeks trading forward, pubs will have to ght even harder Retail, Tenancy and Brewing & Distribution.
GREENE KING PLC 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Key performance indicators Strategic priority Performance Denition Earnings per share profit for the period attributable to equity 2008 74.0p holders, excluding the effect of exceptional EPS grew just over 14% to 74.0p the 14th items, divided by the weighted average number consecutive year of double digit EPS growth.
2007 64.8p of shares in issue during the period excluding Excluding the impact of our share buyback own shares held.
programme in the year, EPS growth would have been 11%.
Growth 14% Dividend per share Total dividend per share paid and proposed 2008 26.0p in respect of the period.
Following the strong results achieved in the year, the board has recommended a final 2007 22.9p dividend payment of 18.7p per share, producing total dividend per share for the year of 26.0p, an increase of 14% on last year.
Growth 14% PBTE Group profit for the period after nancing 2008 142.0m charges but before tax and exceptional items.
profit before tax and exceptionals grew 2% to 142m.
Excluding the impact of our share 2007 139.8m buyback programme in the year, PBTE growth would have been 8%.
Growth 2% Operating profit, pre-exceptional items, Operating profit margin 2008 24.6% divided by group revenue for the period.
Our operating profit margin grew 0.8% in the year, a great effort given the cost pressures 2007 23.8% the business faced.
We do not pursue revenue growth at the expense of margins as this Growth 0.8% does not generate sufficient cash to support long-term growth.
Average profit per outlet Retail Operating profit for the period, pre-exceptionals, divided by the average In the year, we grew average profit per outlet 2008 145,400 number of outlets in the period.
in our Retail and in our tenanted leased estates by 3% and 8% respectively.
2007 141,700 Growth 3% Pub Partners 2008 56,400 2007 52,200 Growth 8% Fixed charge cover is calculated using the Fixed charge cover 2008 2.3x formula EBITDAR operating profit before We returned 149m to shareholders in depreciation, amortisation, rent and 2007 08 via a share buy-back of 15.4m shares, 2007 2.6x exceptionals less maintenance capex funded from debt.
The higher interest payments divided by the sum of interest and rent.
and slightly higher rental payments meant that xed charge cover has fallen as planned to 2.3x at the year end.
GREENE KING PLC 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Hungry Horse We have been undertaking a significant programme of capital investment into our Hungry Horse pubs, with over 26 having been redeveloped to date.
The pubs now benefit from a new livery and a rationalised menu with additional value.
The Ship in Mireld, West Yorkshire, has seen sales increase by over 40% since re-opening.
The new development has really encouraged families into the pub.
We also have a playbarn which is especially popular with the children.
Laura Dixon Waitress at the Ship GREENE KING PLC 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Chief executives review Retail In Greene King Retail, made up of roll-out of Fairtrade coffee.
The accommodation Change business in Destination Pubs has been our Local Pubs, Destination Pubs 06 07 07 08 52 week upgraded with the replacement of all the beds 52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis and Loch Fyne Restaurants businesses, in Old English Inns, as well as improvements Average number sales were up 6% at 578.7m and of pubs trading 781 801 3% 3% to bathroom amenities and the breakfast offer.
Hungry Horse benets from a new livery, a EBITDA 138.0m 147.9m 7% 5% rationalised menu with additional value, and Before the impact of the mainly Operating an accelerated capital investment programme.
profit 110.7m 116.5m 5% 3% leasehold Loch Fyne restaurants, Operating Retail margins were up 0.5 percentage profit margin 20.3% 20.1% -0.1%pts -0.1%pts In the course of the year, we invested Revenue per pub 699.1k 722.5k 3% 1% points.
Total like-for-like sales were 21.4m in 97 major property improvements.
Operating profit Additionally, 27.0m went on maintenance down 1%, while like-for-like food per pub 141.7k 145.4k 3% 1% capex, with a further 7.5m on repairs from sales were up by over 2%.
Key strategic capital projects included the upgrade of a further All businesses made meal deals more tranche of pubs to the Premium Local format, prominent, many houses delayed passing on and beginning the conversion of a number the Chancellors budget increases in beer duty, of pub sites to Loch Fyne restaurants, as well and, facing a strong euro, we introduced more as the major upgrades at Hungry Horse.
We made major savings from rationalising both menu items and We began the financial year with 788 Retail ingredients, energy savings have mitigated sites.
36 sites were added from the Loch increases in power costs, and we have Fyne acquisition, two new Loch Fyne sites removed Sky from a number of pubs where were acquired, 11 pubs were divested, it made economic sense to do so.
17 transferred to, and one from, Pub Partners, and seven transferred to Belhaven.
The closing Food and food-related sales now account for balance was therefore 792 sites, segmented half of our Retail sales and food remains our as follows: top priority for sales growth.
We have learned much from Loch Fyne on development Outlets trading planning, kitchen design, customer proling Outlets at on average and direct marketing.
The Locals team have year end during year driven particularly high food growth this Local Pubs 492 500 year focusing on top quality pub food, and Destination Pubs 261 273 Loch Fyne Restaurants 39 28 investing in kitchen upgrades to deliver this at its very best.
We have seen significant growth Total 792 801 again in wine sales, and have agreed a wider GREENE KING PLC 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Chief executives review Pub Partners Revenue at Pub Partners, our of income.
We offer both tenancies and leases Change and we try to ensure we always have the right tenancy lease division in England and 06 07 07 08 52 week licensee on the right agreement in the right 52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis Wales, was up 2% at 167.2m, while pub.
However, in general we do favour Average number operating profit rose 9% to 81.4m.
of pubs trading 1,431 1,443 1% 1% tenancies, which account for 79% of Pub Revenue 164.0m 167.2m 2% 0% Hence the operating profit margin Partners sites.
With a tenancy, the licensees EBITDA 80.6m 88.2m 9% 7% xed cost base is somewhat reduced rose signicantly, by 3.1 percentage Operating profit 74.7m 81.4m 9% 7% compared to a straight lease, and we retain Operating points, to 48.7%.
Like-for-like profit profit margin 45.5% 48.7% 3.1%pts 3.1%pts more control.
was unchanged year on year.
EBITDA per pub 56.3k 61.1k 9% 6% Operating profit We are not immune to the difficulties in the per pub 52.2k 56.4k 8% 6% An average of 1,443 sites traded over the year.
market, but we believe we are better placed At the start of the financial year, 1,417 pubs than many others.
In the year, rent concessions were trading.
53 sites were added from remained below 1% of rent roll and were acquisitions, mainly New Century Inns, while actually lower than the prior year, bad debts 12 were sold and 17 transferred in from the accounted for just 0.3% of sales and 17 pubs Retail division, with one going the other way.
Applications remained healthy, The closing balance was therefore 1,474 pubs.
at 93% of the previous years level, and we have appointed three new regional Pub Partners is focused on our partners recruitment and training managers, managing business health.
We have cut the price of the whole process from recruitment to the soft drinks and bottled lager on many newer end of a new licensees first year.
agreements, to allow more attractive pricing to the end customer.
Share & Save, our During the period, a total of 8.7m was invested third-party purchasing programme, can add across the Pub Partners estate, including 30 10% to a typical participating pubs bottom major investments.
We optimise rather than maximise on maintenance capex, and 3.8m on repairs rents, balancing short-term rental yield against from the revenue account.
These gures tenant morale, viability and long-term security exclude additional monies spent by licensees.
GREENE KING PLC 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Pub Partners Pub Partners Go for Growth training course is designed to help tenants grow their profit to create long-term sustainable businesses.
Aimee and Ashley Winsbury-Cutts, licensees of the Dolphin, Stisted, Essex, attended the course in May 2007.
Following the advice, they repositioned the pub, changed food suppliers and, as a result, increased both their food margin and their food covers by 100 to 500 per week.
They also changed electricity suppliers to achieve a significant saving.
We learned a great deal on the Go for Growth course, especially the need to focus on constructive planning.
We are now ahead of the game and intend to stay that way.
Ashley Winsbury-Cutts Licensee GREENE KING PLC 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Belhaven Belhaven has undertaken a number of developments during the year, including to re-position young persons venues so that they appeal to a wider customer base.
The City Walls, in Stirling, was redeveloped in the autumn of 2007, and re-opened for business in December 2007.
Previously with no natural light, the development included the opening of an atrium roof, as well as a more welcoming entrance and increased seating inside.
It now offers freshly cooked value food and has seen sales increase by more than 25k per week.
The redevelopment of the pub has been fantastic.
With such a historic location it was only right that we should make the most of all that it has to offer.
Our customer base has increased dramatically, and many come to eat as well as to drink.
Paul Young Manager at the City Walls GREENE KING PLC 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Chief executives review Belhaven Belhaven, our Scottish division, focus on food and value for money, and Change an impressive improvement in the rate of operates in managed pubs, tenanted 06 07 07 08 52 week conversion of sales to operating profit.
Food 52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis leased pubs and brewing & drinks business development has been a key theme Revenue 116.4m 126.1m 8% 6% distribution.
In the second year of Operating profit 23.3m 27.5m 18% 16% throughout the estate: overall, Belhavens food Operating trading following Scotlands smoking revenue has increased by more than 50% over profit margin 20.0% 21.8% 1.8%pts 1.8%pts the last two years.
ban, the team delivered an outstanding result, with revenue up 8% at Belhavens drinks business grew beer volume 126.1m, operating profit up 18% and profit in an on-trade market down 6%.
at 27.5m and the operating profit Net new business in free trade drove the growth, and margins held up despite the margin up 1.8 percentage points at intensity of competition for market share.
All of Belhavens businesses Belhaven Best volume was up 4.6%, representing grew both sales and profits.
another substantial increase in market share.
The number of pubs trading grew during As planned, Stuart Ross is due to retire this the year from 299 to 321, including seven autumn, having led Belhaven for nearly 20 years.
pubs transferred from the English Retail Since he joined the Greene King top team at business just before the financial year end.
the time of the acquisition, the whole business 95 of the 321 are managed and the balance has benefited extensively from his experience tenanted leased.
On average during the year, and exceptional talent.
On a personal level, 306 pubs were trading.
I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Stuart for his commitment and support, and for In tenancy lease, like-for-like rents and beer his professional execution of the integration and supply income were both positive.
Debt was ongoing development of the Belhaven business.
tightly controlled and support was given to The results achieved in Scotland this year our tenants through various initiatives including make a tting valediction.
Stuarts commitment equitable beer pricing policies, financial and and work rate have been as strong in this, accounting guidance and catering planning his retirement year, as in any other year.
assistance: and we are taking the lead role in ensuring that our tenanted and leased The process to nd a replacement to lead pubs comply fully with the new Scottish Belhaven through its next stage of development licensing regime.
is well under way, and I am delighted that Stuart has accepted my invitation to stay on Belhavens managed pubs enjoyed an excellent with Belhaven in an advisory capacity.
Stuart year, with strong profit growth being achieved has always placed great emphasis on putting in despite a reduction in the number of units place a strong team around him: the Belhaven operated.
Growth came from the successful team will, I am sure, maintain the momentum repositioning of a number of specialist pubs to of the last couple of years into the future.
appeal to a broader consumer base, increased GREENE KING PLC 13 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Chief executives review Brewing Company Brewing Company enjoyed a strong About half of Brewing Companys sales are Change factored product, meaning lager, wine, spirits first half but had a more difficult 06 07 07 08 52 week and soft drinks produced by other companies 52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis second half.
Our own brands that we sell to the on-trade, to offer a full Revenue 91.1m 88.5m -3% -5% performed strongly, and especially Operating profit 23.0m 21.6m -6% -8% range for our customers.
We were affected Operating so in the take-home market.
this year by the overall decline in the on-trade profit margin 25.2% 24.4% -0.8%pts -0.8%pts lager market, and we also withdrew from However, sales of third-party lager a number of unsustainable wholesaler and other drinks sales declined year relationships.
In common with others we also on year in an increasingly challenging had to absorb major cost increases for energy on-trade market, which in turn led and raw materials.
We believe that some of these changes, especially the decline in lager to under-recovery of our xed costs.
volume, are structural rather than temporary.
Nevertheless, the operating profit Accordingly, we have been rationalising our margin, at 24.4%, remains xed cost base throughout the year and have sector-leading.
announced further changes since the year end.
In August we will close one of our distribution Own-brewed volume was up 6% on the prior depots, outsource deliveries to outlying areas 4% year, with Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen to a third party, bring certain other deliveries growth and Abbot Ale growing 4%, 9% and 12% back in house and improve working practices.
Despite the UK beer market Together, these actions will result in savings declining by 5%, we grew both our share and of around 0.5m in 2008 09 and around our absolute volume.
In the on-trade, Greene 1m per annum thereafter.
King IPA remains Britains number one cask ale brand, and Greene King is the largest brewer in Greene King remains committed to long-term 9% both standard and premium cask ale categories.
A major new growth We are also market leader in premium ale in advertising campaign has just been launched supermarkets, where in the year, Old Speckled for Old Speckled Hen and in the year under Hen grew its volume by 28% and its share review, we ran a highly successful 2m multiof the category by two full percentage points media campaign for Greene King IPA including to 11.9%, according to AC Nielsen data.
TV, press and outdoor advertising.
Greene King benefiting from a single brewery, we run IPA is the ofcial beer of England Rugby and, to 12% a lean brewing and distribution operation, underline our relationship with rugby, we have growth which enables us to achieve our strong signed Lawrence Dallaglio as an ambassador margins and return on capital employed.
for the brand in a new two-year deal.
GREENE KING PLC 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Brewing Company Brewing Company brews Greene King IPA, the number 1 cask ale in England, which is also the Ofcial Beer of England Rugby.
As well as promotional activity in the on and off-trade to drive awareness and sales, we also operate a bar, the Rose and Crown at Twickenham, on England match days.
The sponsorship of England Rugby is an incredibly important part of our plans, allowing us the opportunity to reach millions of rugby fans across the country.
There is a clear and natural afnity between the sport of rugby, its fans and cask ale drinking, which is why we invest at all levels of the game from high prole celebrities such as Lawrence Dallaglio to investment in grassroots development at community club level.
Keith Ironside Greene King IPA brand manager G GR RE EE EN NE E K KI IN NG G P PL LC C 15 A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T 2 20 00 07 7 0 08 8 Loch Fyne The Exchange Bar and Grill in Shefeld is the first former Greene King pub to be converted to a Loch Fyne Restaurant.
A complete refurbishment was undertaken in December, transforming an uninspiring pub into an open and airy Loch Fyne Restaurant by opening up the kitchen, reducing the bar area and increasing the external seating area.
Since opening, the restaurant has been one of the best performing Loch Fyne sites.
As a participant in Loch Fynes Employee into Management training programme, its great to work in a new restaurant like this, especially as we are so busy.
I am already qualied to train other staff on new openings, and would hope to become a general manager within the next few years.
Simon James Hoey GREENE KING PLC Waiter 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Business review Chief executives review Acquisitions and disposals We continually review our portfolio to identify Current trading and outlook On 7 August we acquired Loch Fyne sites for disposal, namely those of lower quality, Despite the difficult economic conditions Restaurants for a final consideration, including limited potential or with a high alternative-use our businesses are trading in line with our net debt, of 64.2m, nanced from existing value.
In 2007 08, we disposed of 26 sites, expectations.
In the first eight weeks of the debt facilities.
Loch Fyne brings an important realising an exceptional profit of 9.8m and new financial year, Retail like-for-like sales new dimension to Greene King: its strong releasing cash of 41.4m to invest in higherwere 2.8% below last year, though we are position in premium casual dining complements potential sites and or to acquire new sites still seeing food and accommodation growth.
our pre-existing expertise in mid-market foodfor the portfolio.
Like-for-like profits in Pub Partners are level led pubs.
We have begun conversion of a with last years.
Brewing Companys ownnumber of Greene King sites to the Loch Fyne Real Estate Investment Trust brewed volume is down by 2%, which we format.
Trading at Loch Fyne for the year was We stated our commitment to releasing believe to be ahead of the market.
Belhaven encouraging and like-for-like sales were up.
property value in our preliminary results has maintained its strong performance into the I am delighted that Mark Derry and his senior statement for 2006 07.
Since then, we have new financial year, with retail like-for-like sales team at Loch Fyne have agreed to continue consulted with HM Revenue & Customs as to up strongly again.
Cost pressures continue to manage the businesss growth.
They and the feasibility of a Real Estate Investment Trust but we believe our margin and cash focus all their employees are most welcome new REIT for Greene King.
They have indicated will allow us to minimise the impact of these members of the Greene King team.
that Greene King could in principle convert to pressures in the new financial year.
We are a REIT without fide-merging the company.
This better placed than many others due to the On 13 November, we acquired New Century removes one key obstacle, but we still need to resilience and exibility of our business, and Inns for a total consideration, including net debt, be convinced that a REIT structure for Greene as a result we remain confident of meeting of 32.8m, also nanced from existing debt King will deliver real long-term economic our expectations for the year.
These 49 high-quality tenanted and value.
We are also reviewing the operational leased pubs all but one freehold, complement implications for the business.
We will provide our existing estate and strengthen our position an update at our interim results in December.
in the north and northeast.
A programme of improvements is under way, capture of synergies is on track and trading in the estate Rooney Anand has been in line with our expectations.
Chief Executive 2 July 2008 GREENE KING PLC 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
