Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Trading performance inflation.
We were able to offset some of these pressures by improving our efficiency As the Chairman has noted, the and increasing selling prices, but we achievement of like-for-like sales growth deliberately chose not to pass on all of throughout 2008, in an increasingly the higher costs to consumers as we difficult economic climate, underlined the considered it essential to retain our value resilience of Greggs.
Our customers are positioning at a time when our customers not immune to the effects of recession, own budgets were coming under and the tightening of overall retail spending increasing pressure.
was undoubtedly a factor in the slowing of like-for-like sales growth from 5.1 per Initial review cent in the first half 24 weeks to 3.9 per After joining the business I completed an cent in the second, giving us a like-for-like initial review of our operations and strategy increase of 4.4 per cent over the year as and was much encouraged by Greggs a whole.
The exceptionally wet period in established strengths, and excited by the August and early September also had a potential.
The Greggs brand inspires great I am delighted to have taken over the significant impact, as lunchtime trade is loyalty based on its reputation for taste, leadership of a business with such an the core of our business and we are freshness, quality, value and friendly impressive record of performing well sensitive to severe weather which deters service.
We can build on this by exploiting for shareholders, customers, employees consumers from venturing out from their opportunities to improve our range, and the community as a whole.
Including new service and availability to customers even joining the Company in June I have selling space, total sales increased by further, by enhancing efficiency and by visited all our bakeries and many of our 7.7 per cent in the first half and 6.6 per driving the future growth of Greggs shops, and have been greatly cent in the second, making an increase throughout the UK.
During 2009 our priority impressed by the calibre of our people of 7.1 per cent for the year.
will be to simplify the business to ensure and the friendly service they provide.
Our profitability during 2008 came under that we are prepared for accelerated Extensive customer research confirms pressure from substantial increases in a growth and expansion from 2010 onwards.
that there is great potential to build on wide range of costs.
As well as the direct the fundamental strengths of Greggs.
impact on our production and distribution We have the opportunity to generate costs from soaring prices for gas, electricity further growth by making our products and vehicle fuel, we felt the indirect effects even more relevant to consumers of this inflation throughout our supply needs, opening more shops across chain.
The worldwide surge in commodity the UK and making Greggs even more prices drove up the cost of many of our accessible to consumers.
We also key ingredients, including flour, meats have further opportunities to enhance and dairy products while labour costs the efficiency of the Group by making it also increased ahead of general price simpler and even more cost-effective.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued Simplifying the business Belgium has generated much valuable Our customers Our product range more shops to meet strong customer More than a third of our new space in learning, and overseas expansion still demand.
2008 was accounted for by opening shops My initial review also concluded that the Customers are the starting point for Historically, each Greggs bakery made the remains an option for Greggs in the in locations away from the high street and pace of our plans to make Greggs simpler everything we do, and we are proud to vast majority of its products to its own Our shops longer term.
shopping malls, such as industrial recipes, resulting in considerable regional could be increased and this will be our serve around a million of them a day in Last year we opened 67 new shops and estates, business parks, airports and bus variation.
We have now embarked on a priority in 2009.
The key initiatives are: The one-off restructuring charge of 3.7 over 1,400 shops.
During my initial review closed 26, making a net addition of 41 stations.
Taking Greggs to where our programme that will result in 80 per cent million shown in the accounts reflects our I met many customers in person and also shops and a total of 1,409 at the year-end.
customers work or travel will continue to of our range being harmonised across expected exit costs from Belgium, the had the benefit of written comments from During 2009 we expect to open a further be part of our approach to seek out further Creating a single brand.
The adoption of the country by the end of 2009.
The costs of closing two Bakers Oven shops some 10,000 of them who told me what 55 - 60 new shops although the net new opportunities for expansion.
a single Greggs brand throughout the UK remaining 20 per cent of the range will in January 2009 which were not suitable they liked about Greggs and where they additions will be around 10 after closures.
by converting our Bakers Oven shops comprise specialist regional and local We continued to invest in shop for conversion to Greggs, and an increase saw scope for improvement.
It is clear that This is because closures of shops will be will enable the whole business to benefit products.
This change will make it easier refurbishment during the year, with the in previously disclosed provisions for the our customers have great loyalty to at a higher rate than last year due to our from our national brand advertising, on for us to provide nutritional information number of shop refits slowing in the restructuring of Bakers Oven in the North Greggs because we offer them great withdrawal from Belgium and our intention TV and elsewhere, and increase our for our customers, enabling them to make second half as we tightened our capital and Scotland to reflect the worsening taste, freshness, quality, value and friendly to re-site more shops at the end of their even more informed decisions about how expenditure.
While we are determined to ability to leverage our buying capability.
Non-Greggs customers know us leases.
We expect rental costs for new good our products are.
We have already maintain the quality of the Greggs for value but are less well informed about sites to continue coming down and it Bakers Oven shops have in-store bakeries begun to trial our harmonised ranges of shopping experience through the quality of our products, underlining makes good financial sense to adopt a that will allow us to expand into parts of sandwiches and drinks, with encouraging refurbishment, we are seeking even Simplifying decision-making.
When I the opportunity and importance of more challenging approach to lease the country that previously were not results.
more cost-effective ways to roll out our joined the business it was already into the communicating all that we do at Greggs renewals, re-siting shops where a better accessible without investment in a central refit programme going forward.
second year of a three-year programme to provide great quality products as well We have also responded to our customers location is available.
Our customers will also benefit designed to change Greggs from a as great prices.
In the current upward-only rent reviews remains an The current environment is increasing site from seated catering as well as the decentralised divisional business into a economic climate we have naturally paid unwelcome pressure for retail businesses availability but we will continue to be very freshness of our in-store bakery offer.
Customers emphasised a number of areas unified company.
Central teams had been close attention to ensuring value for money, under current market conditions and is selective in our acquisition programme.
in which they felt that we might improve created to drive such areas as Retail, introducing a range of sandwiches priced something that we continue to argue We expect to accelerate significantly the our offer further for them, including Marketing and Supply Chain, and the at 99p or below.
Increasingly we offer needs to change.
rate of shop openings from 2010 onward, Withdrawing from Belgium.
Our 10 shops nutritional labelling on our products, the business was beginning to benefit from exceptional value in other food-on-the-go recognising that one of our greatest in Belgium have been loss making over development of more new lines, expansion the adoption of this more unified approach.
categories with our espresso-based growth opportunities is to make Greggs the past five years and we concluded that of our range of healthy products and My review identified further opportunities Fairtrade coffee, which sells at around more accessible to more people across the achievement of a break-even position extension of our hot sandwich offer.
to simplify our product range and supply 1.20 per cup, a substantial discount to the UK by increasing the number of was both too distant and an unnecessary These findings will form part of our strategy chain, as outlined in more detail below.
We have also locations in which we trade.
We have distraction when there are considerably for the business going forward, and we am pleased with the progress that has enjoyed a good response to the launch identified opportunities for expansion greater opportunities for profitable growth will continue to seek the views of our already been made and during 2009 we of ranges of new products including throughout the country.
We therefore announced customers through an ongoing research will put further structural changes in place lattice-topped savouries and a premium our intention to withdraw from the programme designed to ensure that we to enable the business to be even more chicken and pesto baguette.
Hot Belgian market in December, and have understand and are responsive to their centrally driven.
sandwiches are selling well in the 150 subsequently agreed a sale of the changing needs.
shops where they are currently available, business to Foodmakers NV, a Belgian and we will progressively offer these in retail business.
Our experience in Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14 15 Our new bakery in Manchester Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued Supply chain end of 2009.
We are committed to we will continue to fund breakfast clubs deserve a huge amount of praise for all spending plans during the second half.
continuing to deliver that with great eliminating all artificial colours from the at a cost of 225,000 per year, but there that they have done and continue to do The largest single project was the quality products at great prices.
As the Our former divisional structure resulted in products that we make ourselves by the is also a need to try and find ways to for Greggs.
construction of our new Manchester Chairman has noted, we will continue to each of our ten regional bakeries end of 2009 and artificial flavourings from encourage the Government and other bakery, which was completed during the be affected by inflationary cost On a personal note, I would like to producing a wide range of products for its our range by early 2010. public and private bodies to lend their second half and is now being pressures, particularly in the first half, but record my appreciation of Sir Michael own shops, often in small quantities and support to this critical cause.
We expect total investment we have taken action to bear down on Darringtons support for me since I with much being finished by hand.
We are We recognise the issue of litter on our that there are many thousands of children to be at a similar level in 2009.
We will costs throughout the business and have joined the business.
Mike is a examining the longer term opportunities to streets and will be working with the Keep whose school attendance and performance maintain our pressure on capital based our budgets for the year on the remarkable man with not only great enhance quality and productivity through Britain Tidy team on solutions to the would benefit if they started the day with expenditure throughout the business, assumption that we will achieve only business skills but that rare quality of the consolidation of manufacturing to problems caused by some people a proper breakfast, and the number of challenging ourselves to find more costmodest like-for-like sales growth.
believing we are all put on this planet to allow more efficient production of higher thoughtlessly discarding bags or other parents unable to provide this at home is effective ways of investing so as to do some good: and, whatever shape or volumes.
This is likely to follow the packaging.
Our determination to make a Looking beyond 2009, I am confident only likely to increase as economic maximise returns in what will undoubtedly form that takes, we all have it in us to do successful example of our central positive difference to the environment is that the actions we are taking to simplify conditions deteriorate.
In the past, Greggs remain a difficult market place.
savouries unit at Balliol Park in Newcastle also underlined by our plans to reduce and unify the business, and to promote has tended to take a rather understated upon Tyne, which opened in 1998 and carbon emissions and the amount of Cash flow and balance sheet our excellent products, will prepare us His advice and guidance have been hugely approach to the work that it does, but I has delivered real benefits in enhanced waste food going to landfill.
for accelerated expansion of our UK helpful, and I thank him for the time and The Group remains strongly cash believe we can raise the profile of what product quality and consistency, as well retail presence as we progress towards insight he has provided since I joined I have been greatly impressed by Greggs generative.
During the year we returned a we do in the hope that it inspires others as substantially increased productivity.
our vision of becoming the nations Greggs.
values and the way that these inform so total of 24.2 million to our shareholders, to do more.
Maintaining and improving the quality of number one food-on-the-go retailer.
much of what the Company and its comprising 14.5 million in dividend I would also like to record our gratitude for our products will remain our foremost These and other issues are covered in employees do to help the wider payments and a further 9.7 million in the contribution over many years of Ian objective as we implement these further greater depth in our Corporate Social community.
During the year our staff raised share buybacks which were completed Edgeworth, who sadly died in December Kennedy McMeikan changes in our production over time, and Responsibility Report on pages 18 to 25. a staggering 360,000 for the BBC during the earlier part of the year.
Ian was Group Personnel Director Chief Executive as we invest in new technology.
Children in Need appeal, more than People ended the year with 2.1 million of cash from 1983 - 2006 and continued to serve 10 March 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility double the amount we raised in 2007. and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
as a trustee of our pension scheme after In getting to know the business, I have This is a remarkable testament to the The actual balance at bank at the end of his retirement.
His distinctive personality As a responsible, leading food supplier, we been genuinely impressed by the quality spirit of our people and the generosity of the year was in excess of 8 million but will be sorely missed and it is a personal are committed to meeting our customers of our people and the level of service our customers, despite the difficult advancing payments ahead of an sadness that I will not have the privilege demands for great tasting, fresh, healthy they provide.
Our people have had to economic environment.
accounting systems change impacted on of getting to know him as well as so many food and for the information they need to cope with considerable change over the the reported balance.
of the team at Greggs, who genuinely make informed decisions about what they The Greggs Trust continues to do great last two years, have embraced the shift loved the man and his unique way of eat.
Work is continuing to reduce the fat work supporting a wide range of good from a divisional to a centralised The future blending fun with work.
and salt content of our products, while causes, and I have been particularly structure, and shown real commitment to Greggs is a business with a great history maintaining their quality and enjoyability.
touched and impressed by the contribution making it a success.
They have done all Capital expenditure and values, and with great potential for that the Greggs Breakfast Clubs make in this while continuing to provide great Harmonising 80% of our product range by the future.
Our customers are not Our net total capital expenditure after 124 primary schools in disadvantaged service to our customers and coping the end of 2009 will allow us to provide immune to the effects of recession, but grants in 2008 was 33.3 million, areas across the UK.
We are determined with the additional pressures created by nutritional information for all our they and others will seek out good value compared with our previous budget of 36 that, despite the tough economic times, the economic climate.
I believe that they sandwiches, savouries and drinks by the and we will work hard to find ways of million, as we tightened further our Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16 17
