DIRECTORS REPORT Chief Executives review Record revenue and profit Record revenue and profit We have achieved another year of record revenue and profit, demonstrating the strength of our business model and strategy which has created value consistently for shareholders, customers and employees over nearly four decades.
We continue to maintain a healthy balance between short-term performance and investment for sustainable growth in the longer term.
The diversity of our products, markets and customer base provides good opportunities for organic and acquisitive growth and our underlying order intake trend remains strong.
Good organic growth and strong returns We grew revenues from continuing operations by 13% to 395m 2007: 351m and profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles by 11% to 72.8m.
Organic revenue growth of 8.0% and organic profit growth of 6.7% exceeded the 5% p. a. minimum objective for a third consecutive year.
Return on sales of 18.4%, Return on capital employed of 55.8% and Return on total invested capital of 14.1% were all strong performances and meet my overall objective to deliver growth without diluting the high quality of returns.
Growth in all three sectors Andrew Williams All three reporting sectors Infrastructure Sensors, Health and Analysis and Industrial Safety Chief Executive achieved organic revenue and profit growth.
In Infrastructure Sensors, our Fire Detection business performed very strongly whilst Elevator Safety and Security Sensors ended the year with improved momentum as planned following the major strategic changes implemented in the first half of the year.
Our Health and Analysis sector made good progress with Labsphere, acquired in February 2007, contributing to another positive year for Photonics.
Industrial Safety continued its record of strong organic growth and also benefited from a good performance from Tritech, the subsea asset monitoring business acquired in November 2006.
Revenue to all major geographic regions increased with double digit growth in the UK 13%, Mainland Europe 18% and Asia Pacic Australasia 21% the latter meeting our objective of increasing our rate of revenue growth in Asia.
Revenues into the USA grew by 7% despite an OUR VALUES We aim to achieve record performance each year.
This is Achievement accomplished through the individual and collective achievements of our people.
We recognise, reward and celebrate high levels of achievement as this drives continuous improvement and sustained wealth creation.
We succeed by empowering our people to lead, make decisions Empowerment and act with autonomy within a clearly communicated strategic framework.
We give clear goals and make people accountable through regular and unambiguous performance feedback.
We need to be innovative to be competitive, grow our business Innovation and create wealth.
We encourage creativity whether it be in product design, manufacturing, selling or administration.
We actively seek to recognise and reward innovative behaviour at all levels of our organisation.
We are only successful if we help our customers to succeed too.
Customer We achieve this by giving customers what they want, every time, and nding new ways to add value.
We aim to be leaders in our satisfaction chosen sectors through innovative products and excellent service to customers.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS adverse currency impact.
The geographic diversity of our customer base and, increasingly, our 2008 ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH cost base ensured that the overall impact of currency movement on the Groups revenue and profit was modest.
Acquisition activity continues with increased resources Three acquisitions and one disposal were completed during the last year.
In December 2007, % we bought Riester a German manufacturer of handheld instruments for the eyecare and general healthcare markets for 40m, making it the second largest acquisition in our history.
Earlier in 8 the year we acquired SRD 2.6m to add new technology to our existing subsea Asset Monitoring business and BKKI for 0.3m to establish a stronger platform for our Gas Detection products in China.
In January 2008, we sold Post Glover Lifelink Inc for 3m.
2008 ORGANIC PROFIT GROWTH Our pipeline of acquisition opportunities remains good due to our increased search activities and a stable marketplace for high quality small to mid-size technology businesses.
We ended the year with net debt of 44m having extended our core borrowing facilities in February 2008 to 165m and leaving us well placed to take any suitable opportunities when they arise.
% More investment in product and process innovation We launched over 90 new products during the year and increased expenditure on R&D by 22% to 7 18.6m.
This R&D expenditure supports a wide range of activities from leading edge technology to modifying existing products to meet precise customer needs.
Increasingly we are seeing opportunities to gain competitive advantage through our manufacturing capabilities.
Investment is increasing in manufacturing automation across the Group.
Examples include the latest Optical Thin Film coating technology in Photonics and the latest electron beam welding equipment to help our Bursting Disc business sell into new OEM markets.
Strategically, this increased automation also simplies manufacturing processes and opens up the opportunity to replicate operations closer to our customers in other regions.
A resilient value-creation strategy Halma has changed a lot in recent years but our core values of Achievement through Empowerment, Innovation and Customer Satisfaction have remained the same.
Our value-creation strategy is a twin-track approach.
As a business investor, we actively manage a portfolio of businesses, allocating capital and people resources according to where we see the best return.
Since April 2005, we have made 11 acquisitions and 9 disposals.
As a business developer, we provide resources and highly relevant expertise to help our high return companies grow on a sustained basis.
These resources and expertise include not only our Divisional Chief Executives, who chair the Group companies, but increasingly the knowledge shared between our companies.
In addition to ensuring strong financial control and good governance, the role of our small Head Ofce is increasingly one of enabling companies to grow faster.
Since April 2005, we have created Halma hubs in China, established senior management training programmes, held technology transfer events, increased the opportunities for cross-selling between Group companies and increased capital investment in new manufacturing capability.
The consistently high returns achieved by Halma are a direct consequence of selecting a diverse range of businesses which have common characteristics.
These include robust market growth 2008 STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS What we said What weve achieved 1.
Organic growth to exceed 5% p. a.
7% organic profit growth and 8% organic revenue growth driving record results.
Targeted acquisitions Riester acquired in December 2007 for 55 million strengthening our Health and Analysis sector.
SRD and BKKI bolt-on deals completed to strengthen our Industrial Safety sector.
Build on Chinese hubs and grow revenue in Asia Revenue in Asia increased by 21%.
16 group companies now have a direct presence in China.
Our first acquisition BKKI and a Joint Venture agreement Fire Detection in China.
Manufacturing hub facility due to be operational in Shanghai mid-2008.
Continued management development Further Halma Executive Development Programmes HEDP completed for senior managers.
New Halma Management Development Programme HMDP introduced for middle management.
Maintain strong new product introduction Over 90 new products launched during 2007 08.
More new products developed through collaboration between Group companies.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 9 DIRECTORS REPORT Chief Executives review continued drivers, strong barriers to entry, products which target non-discretionary customer spend and untapped international growth opportunities.
Our consistent good performance through macro-economic cycles shows the resilience of this integrated financial, operating and market drivers strategy.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability Halmas commitment to the environment, safety and health and improving the quality of life for individuals is reected in both the way we do business and the products we create for our customers.
Our operational commitment is shown in greater detail in the Sustainability review starting on page 32, including the clear objectives we set ourselves in areas ranging from carbon policy to the safety of our employees.
We set objectives because they make good business sense.
These are regularly reviewed and, where necessary, acted upon by the Board.
The positive impact that our products have on society and the environment is significant and is a source of satisfaction for employees.
Examples include protecting people from hazardous gases at work, providing safe access to public buildings for those with physical disabilities, enabling eye specialists to prevent sight loss or protecting the environment by conserving water through leakage reduction.
Stronger talent and succession planning processes We achieve and sustain our high levels of performance because we have talented and hard working teams of people throughout the Group.
The quality and depth of talent has improved signicantly over recent years and I thank everyone who has contributed to another excellent year.
We have transformed the way in which we identify, develop and reward people.
During the year, a new Halma Management Development Programme was created to support our Executive Development Programme and drive our investment in people development deeper into our organisation.
A key benefit of this overall investment has been improved succession planning and increased internal promotions.
During the past year, three new Divisional Chief Executives were appointed.
All were internal promotions, with each one earned through a strong track record of achievement at Managing Director level.
In April 2008, one of our existing DCEs Adam Meyers was promoted to the Halma p. l. c. Board following Keith Roys announcement of his intention to retire in July 2008.
I congratulate Adam on his well deserved promotion and also wish Keith a long and happy retirement.
Keiths generosity in sharing his experience and developing others is reected in the strength of our Executive team and many of our subsidiary company boards.
He leaves with the Group in good shape.
Outlook Our businesses are well-positioned to sustain growth in the short and medium term due to their diversity of product range, customer base and geographic footprint as well as the nondiscretionary spend aspect of our safety-related products.
In Infrastructure Sensors, these factors, a focus on commercial rather than residential buildings and a strong bias towards ret refurbishment rather than new construction, gives us confidence of continued progress in 2008 09.
All of our Health and Analysis markets look positive for the coming year and beyond.
In addition to good organic growth prospects we are still targeting much of our acquisition search efforts in this sector.
Order intake trends have continued to be positive as we move into the next financial year.
A major contributor to this is in Industrial Safety where many of our customers in the oil and gas market have an ever lengthening pipeline of orders to full.
Halma continues to deliver strong growth across our businesses and territories.
This reects our well-balanced portfolio and our focus on unique and high performance products that promote health and safety where customer investment is often non-discretionary.
Our end markets remain robust and our financial position is strong.
This gives us significant headroom to continue investing in innovation and organic growth and making acquisitions as the right opportunities present themselves.
Therefore I am confident that we are well-positioned to make further progress in the current year and beyond.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive See Financial highlights 10 www.
