Directors Report Business Review Group profile Net fees m Operating profit m 786.8m Net fees 800 300 720 270 640 240 560 210 480 180 400 150 32.3% 320 120 Conversion rate 240 90 160 60 80 30 UK & Ireland UK & Ireland International International 253.8m Operating profit Net fees by specialism % Net fees by division % Accountancy & Finance UK & Ireland Construction & Property Asia Pacific IT Continental Europe 20 26 Other & Rest of World 36 8,872 Number of employees 58 22 14 24 Temporary: Permanent % Private: Public sector % 27 Number of countries 49% 51% 80% 20% Temporary Permanent Private Public 17 Number of specialisms continuing activities only, pre exceptional items.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 78% 22% 04 05 25% 75% 06 70% 30% 07 66% 34% 08 58% 42% 83% 17% 04 78% 22% 05 06 71% 29% 07 65% 35% 08 54% 46% Directors Report Business Review Chairmans Statement Hays 2008: an excellent year Hays has achieved another strong financial performance with 24% growth in basic earnings per share against a weakening economic backdrop.
It has also been an exciting year for Hays during which Alistair Cox joined as Chief Executive following Denis Waxmans retirement.
This transition was extremely smooth and, since his appointment, Alistair has built on Deniss legacy.
He has considerably strengthened his Management Board, taken personal responsibility for the United Kingdom & Ireland business and continued the development and diversication of our International business.
It has been a year of significant progress for Hays.
In the United Kingdom & Ireland we are rening the way we manage the business, automating many processes, improving working practices and upgrading the technology we use.
Whilst it will take time for these changes to convert into financial performance, particularly given the current market environment, these actions will considerably strengthen the business for the long-term.
Meanwhile, the International business achieved outstanding growth underlining the great opportunities available to Hays worldwide and our capability to capitalise on these opportunities.
Very few businesses have achieved such strong growth across so many countries in specialist recruitment.
Like all recruitment businesses, we have seen a sharp fall in our share price during the year.
Whilst we share the concerns about the short-term economic prospects, the Board is confident that Hays is well positioned to deal with the challenges ahead and will emerge Our business model from any downturn a more efficient business with an increased market share.
has both the flexibility Dividend in the short-term to deal Our dividend policy is designed to support a sustainable dividend across the economic cycle with more challenging whilst also delivering a progressive dividend during periods of growth.
In line with this economic conditions and policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.95 pence per share, which would bring the full year dividend to 5.80 pence per share, representing an increase in the full the capability over the year dividend of 16% over 2007. long-term to capitalise on Board governance the substantial structural The Board has met 10 times in the year and conducted a local review of our operations growth in specialist in Asia Pacic, including visits to Japan and Australia.
In addition there was a visit and a recruitment markets.
brieng at the new United Kingdom agship, multi-brand ofce in Birmingham city centre.
Bob Lawson As stated last year, the Board review agreed the priorities, which were strategic implementation, Chairman senior talent management and IT innovation.
Each of these initiatives has received specic regular attention from the Board.
Some of the results have been increased attention to operational efficiency in the United Kingdom & Ireland and further diversication within the International business, for example broadening our offer in German-speaking countries and expanding specialisms within the Japanese market.
In addition the Board has supported plans for further market entries scheduled for the coming year.
A by-product of the Board deliberations has been the requirement to re-assess how Hays should use web-based technologies within its businesses for the future.
We have increased the pace of senior management development with external recruitment in Group IT, Marketing and HR leadership and launched a Group-wide senior management development programme for the top 200 managers.
In addition, to recognise Denis Waxmans lifelong commitment to the business, The Waxman Scholarship has been created.
In its first year, it has been awarded to two potential senior leaders to attend the London and INSEAD Business Schools.
Finally, the entire review has reafrmed that these remain the appropriate priorities for the Board.
com Directors Report Business Review People As a Board, and as individuals, we have visited many of our operations in the United Kingdom 24% and the International business during the year.
During these visits, we continue to be Increase in basic earnings per share impressed with our teams commitment and absolute client and candidate focus.
I do wish to recognise their achievement and to reinforce the Boards commitment to continuing to make their roles more fullling and more effective.
Summary 16% Across the world we have an experienced management team, leading market positions, a Increase in full year dividend highly cash generative business, a diversied portfolio and a exible cost base.
This solid platform provides us with both the exibility in the short term to deal with more challenging economic conditions and the capability over the long term to capitalise on the substantial structural growth in specialist recruitment markets.
Bob Lawson Chairman 1 September 2008 continuing activities only, pre exceptional items.
Growth in operating profit over 10 years m 270 240 210 180 150 120 90 60 30 Note: Operating profits shown on a continuing basis only, pre exceptional items.
For 2004 and previous years, the results were reported under UK GAAP.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 91.6 99 00 117.5 01 146.0 02 122.5 03 114.3 04 133.4 05 166.2 06 193.0 07 216.1 08 253.8 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Review Strong fundamentals and a straightforward strategy 2008 Highlights Year ended 30 June Growth In s million 2008 2007 Actual LFL Net fees 786.8 633.6 24% 19% Operating profit 253.8 216.1 17% 13% Basic earnings per share 12.59p 10.19p 24% This has been an excellent year for Hays.
We helped more people than ever develop their own careers, placing over 80,000 candidates in their next permanent job and approximately 300,000 contractors in temporary assignments for our clients.
As a consequence, we have delivered record profits and cash ow, achieved strong growth and made significant progress in our strategy of diversifying our business across geographies and sectors.
Despite clear signs of tightening economies in the latter part of the year, we delivered 24% growth in net fees 19% on a like-for-like basis and 17% growth in operating profit 13% on a like-for-like basis.
In the United Kingdom & Ireland we enjoy a position as market leader and we grew our net fees by 7% but operating profit declined by 3% as the marketplace became more challenging in the second half.
Whilst a number of our sectors became progressively tougher during the latter We have delivered record part of the year, we actively reduced the cost base whilst diverting resources to more resilient areas of the market.
Our business model allowed us to do this quickly and we grew a number profits and cash flow, of our newer specialisms signicantly, despite dealing with difficult market conditions in other achieved strong growth sectors, particularly the Construction & Property and City related aspects of our business.
and made significant The International performance has been outstanding.
We grew net fees and operating profit progress in our strategy by 40% and growth was achieved across a broad geographic spectrum.
Fourteen countries of diversifying our business grew their own net fees by over 40%, all achieved organically.
In Australia & New Zealand, across geographies we outperformed the market by a considerable distance across all major specialisms.
Our market leadership in Australia is now so strong that we are larger than our next three and sectors.
In Asia we more than doubled our business and continued to invest Alistair Cox in building critical mass in Japan, China, Hong Kong and Singapore.
In Continental Europe Chief Executive & Rest of World we invested to take advantage of structural growth in each of our markets, expanded our network by opening operations in 13 new cities and entered two new countries, Denmark and Hungary.
40% Our strategy of diversication has delivered tangible results.
We have rolled out new Increase in International net fees specialisms across multiple countries and our newer specialisms now constitute 26% in 2008 of the Groups net fees.
We expanded internationally by growing our consultant base in existing infrastructure and opening new operations around the world.
Today we operate in 27 countries and have in place a global network of 393 ofces.
Five years ago our International net fees constituted 16% of the Groups total.
Today they constitute 42% and I expect that percentage to increase over time.
This is an increasingly global industry.
14 Our strategy is focused on taking advantage of that trend and we are proud to be at the Number of countries that increased forefront of the industrys internationalisation, building a business that can support our net fees by more than 40% in 2008 clients and candidates both globally and locally.
Number of ofces 30 June 2007 Opened net 30 June 2008 United Kingdom & Ireland 257 2 255 Asia Pacific 47 6 53 Continental Europe & Rest of World 72 13 85 Group 37617 393 6 www.
com Directors Report Business Review Hays in 2008 When I joined a year ago, I was struck by the number of long-term growth opportunities Top 3 facing Hays, more than I have seen in any other business.
One year on, the short-term Market position in nine countries economic environment has deteriorated in a number of our markets, but my belief in our longer term prospects remains rm and our proven ability to execute our strategy has reinforced my view that we are very well positioned to capitalise on those opportunities.
Temporary placement net fees m In short, the fundamentals for our business are very strong and they are: 450 1.
Hays is 100% focused on specialist recruitment.
This part of the recruitment market has the best growth opportunities and the highest margins.
By focusing on what we do best, 405 we have more than doubled the size of our business over the last five years.
We are not 360 distracted by seeking to operate in other segments of the market that display different 315 dynamics and require different skills and processes.
Many of our international markets are at a very early stage of development.
By 225 introducing our services and methodologies, we open up and professionalise 180 these markets.
As an early entrant, we aim to quickly build a leadership position.
We have built an increasingly diverse business across countries and specialisms to grow 90 on a number of fronts, as well as mitigating some of the risks of exposure to economic 45 cycles.
We already operate in 27 countries and expect to expand further.
Our specialisms cover areas as diverse as nursing, architects, accountants, teachers and lawyers and we regularly enter new sectors where we see opportunities.
We are a global leader and a local leader in each of our chosen markets.
I believe that 450 people want to deal with experts who have a real grip on what is happening in their area, 405 whether they are clients or candidates.
We build specialist teams of consultants, steeped 360 in specic sector expertise to provide that service.
Our business model replicates easily, allowing us to take our proven methodologies 270 and open up new specialisms in countries with low expansion risk.
As a result, we have 225 entered 13 new countries during the last five years and increased the proportion of international net fees as a percentage of Group net fees from 16% to 42%.
Over 180 95% of that growth has been achieved organically.
We operate with a very strong cost control culture.
By building a highly exible cost base 90 and exerting strong control over expenditure, we have built a market leading conversion 45 rate.
This discipline is one I will reinforce as it has allowed us to respond swiftly to changing market conditions during the year.
Hays is a highly cash generative business.
Our five year average cash conversion is 96% and last year we turned more than 100% of operating profit into cash ow.
Turning profit into cash and maintaining a strong balance sheet is fundamental to our strategy.
We have a very strong management team.
Ours is a people business and we have many decades of recruitment industry experience in our regional management teams.
The strength of this team speaks for itself, as they have grown operating profits by a cumulative aggregate growth rate of 28% per annum over the last 16 years and I am proud to lead them.
These characteristics make for a very powerful combination.
They bode well as a platform from which to deliver strong long-term growth and create a leading global player in this industry.
LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency, pre exceptional items.
No adjustment is made for the one additional trading day in 2008. continuing activities only, pre exceptional items.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 03 142.2 03 205.4 163.8 04 240.9 04 198.2 272.4 05 05 236.6 301.6 06 06 324.1 309.5 07 07 385.2 401.6 08 08 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Review Our vision and our strategy By focusing diligently on Our role as a business is a straightforward but very important one: we help our clients nd the very best resources they need to develop their own businesses and we help our candidates what we do best, we have nd the best new role for themselves.
Making the right decisions and providing the best expert more than doubled the advice to all parties is crucial in such a people-centric environment as our work has real impact size of our business over on peoples lives and our clients organisational capability.
We take these responsibilities very the last five years.
seriously and recognise that to achieve our goal of building the pre-eminent global leader in specialist recruitment, customer service must lie at the heart of our strategy.
Delivering superior service requires us to do a number of things very well.
We must bring the best people into our business, train them to become excellent consultants and managers, 13 give them the tools and systems to allow them to be more productive than our competitors Number of countries entered in last and support them through effective marketing of the Hays brand to help them grow their five years business.
I encapsulate this as a strategy of investing in our people, our processes, our technology and our brand.
To deliver on this strategy, we have concentrated on four key principles.
The first principle is to recruit the best talent into our business.
We are also investing in both technical training to turn our recruits into highly productive consultants as well as leadership training to build our senior management capability to enable us to execute more things on more fronts at the same time.
Having such a broad geographic and sectorial spread, we have many opportunities to develop good ideas across the business.
Our second principle is therefore to capture these ideas and to standardise the way we do things around those best practices in essence building the One Hays Way of running our business around the world.
This will allow us to better build our brand globally, facilitate career progression for our consultants and deliver a consistent high quality service to our clients and candidates.
It also allows us to look for ways to deliver on the third principle of being as operationally effective as we can be wherever we operate.
This means looking for opportunities to eliminate waste, speed up our processes and free up our consultants to spend more time with more clients and candidates.
Having this approach embedded in the way we run our business allows us to grow very quickly and efficiently as we have a well-proven set of methodologies and processes that we can quickly replicate into new specialisms and countries.
This fourth principle behind our strategy allows us to invest in new opportunities quickly and at relatively low risk, as most of our growth can be achieved organically.
2008 achievements and 2009 priorities 2008 was a year when we delivered significant growth and rapidly diversied our business both internationally and sectorally.
We achieved this by investing on multiple fronts to build critical mass in existing countries, introducing newer specialisms across the world and entering new countries.
We would not have delivered this without investment in people and it is credit to the management teams around the world that we successfully inducted over 1,000 new colleagues into Hays, growing our headcount by 14% to 8,872 people today.
We have also identied how we can better deploy technology to create competitive advantage.
Whilst our business is a very human one and one where personal communication and relationships are key, we can use technology to help us achieve more.
Hence we have initiated a major IT system refresh that will provide all our front ofces around the world with a richer and more efficient operating system and put in place a programme to streamline our back ofce administration in the UK to deliver improved service at lower cost.
Both programmes are fully specified and resourced and will deliver material benets when completed over the next couple of years.
com Directors Report Business Review Making progress against our strategy Our strategy Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 p e o p l e i n t h e i n d u s t r y Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Review Progress with our strategy in 2008 and priorities for 2009 Growth by replicating One Hays around the world our business Build scale in existing locations Standardise practices across the worldwide Roll out new ofces and specialisms network leveraging our scale and reach Enter new countries Invest in our worldwide brand Priorities for 2009 Progress in 2008 Priorities for 2009 Progress in 2008 Focus on maximising Several contract wins to Implementation of new Opened in 18 new cities profits and cash from service global clients in global marketing strategy in the International business core specialisms in multiple countries and launched in Hungary Invest in further global our large countries and Denmark significant progress made client opportunities 14 countries grew net fees Increase market share in in cross selling across Roll out of recruitment by more than 40% more defensive specialisms specialisms in the UK practices and training in United Kingdom and Increased net fees in other Standardised key processes courses developed in 2008 Australia e. g. public sector specialisms by 23% including recruitment, Design a global strategy Continue roll out of training, and trading terms to fully develop our online Strong progress in building Other specialisms and conditions capability to support the other specialisms in our large countries International mobility business across the world particularly in our large Selective investment in processes streamlined country operations.
In the consultants in countries to better manage United Kingdom & Ireland, with strong economies international consultant four other specialisms and candidate moves grew by more than 20%.
In Continue regional Australia & New Zealand, ofce roll out in the Investment in Group 12 other specialisms International business marketing resources grew by more than 50%.
and capability Examining new country In Germany, we achieved opportunities in emerging rapid growth in the non markets IT specialisms Introduced new specialisms in 17 countries International net fees and profits grew by 40% LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency, pre exceptional items.
No adjustment is made for the one additional trading day in 2008.
Other specialisms are all specialisms excluding Accountancy & Finance, Construction & Property and IT.
com Directors Report Business Review Develop the best people Operational effectiveness in the industry Build capability to execute on multiple A scaleable and integrated global IT platform opportunities in parallel Focus on efficiency improvements in the Maintain strong performance and client UK & Ireland based culture Progress in 2008 Priorities for 2009 Progress in 2008 Priorities for 2009 5,000 people attended Complete roll out of One Completed design and scope Respond to more challenging assessment centres around Hays Induction Academy of new IT project market conditions by the world as part of our to deliver efficient and focusing on maximising Launch One Hays newly designed programme integrated market leading profit and productivity Technical Academy aimed to recruit the best consultants front ofce IT platform particularly in United at developing consultant across our global business Kingdom & Ireland and One Hays Induction skills e. g. sales, negotiation, Australia & New Zealand Academy designed and now interviewing, and other Completed design and scope being rolled out worldwide best practice of new automated Go-live with front ofce IT and fully integrated back platform in priority countries 100 managers participated Induct a further 100 ofce IT system in the UK in Hays Advance worldwide managers on to the Hays Phase 1 implementation of leadership development Advance programme and 8,000 UK temporary new UK back ofce IT programme and executive roll out next stage of workers transferred from system which will include programme with leading leadership development paper timesheets to web testing and piloting prior to business schools put in enabled automated full implementation in 2010 Continue to improve place timesheets, representing scores in TALKback, our Complete roll out of web 25% of all our UK TALKback, Hays internal internal survey measuring enabled timesheets in UK temporary workers survey measuring employee employee satisfaction Leverage new Account satisfaction, indicated that Implemented Corporate Management structure to the number of employees Sales and Delivery teams increase share of large who were proud to work for to better serve major corporate market in UK Hays improved to 77% corporate clients Developed a structure to better sell and deliver services to major corporate clients Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Review continued from page 8 The longer term potential Looking to 2009, we clearly face more challenging conditions in a number of our key to significantly grow our markets.
In such areas, we will focus on maximising our profits and cash generation and business around the world will take whatever action we deem necessary to deliver this.
At the same time however, we recognise the need to continue to invest where opportunities exist, whether that be in and across multiple a further geographic expansion, rolling out newer specialisms or growing our share in specialisms is substantial.
more resilient sectors e. g. the public sector in the United Kingdom & Ireland.
Our strategy of diversication and globalisation remains intact as we see significant long-term growth opportunities in opening up our markets around the world.
Finally, we will continue to invest in the key IT programmes as we consider these vital to building a more efficient 16 business.
In summary, our priority is to achieve the right balance between short-term profit Years average sector experience maximisation and cash generation in areas where current conditions are tough with the of top 20 managers reporting to need for targeted investment in building out our global presence where we see significant the Board opportunities for long-term gain.
Current trading Currently, in the United Kingdom, demand for temporary placements has attened out and we are experiencing falling demand for permanent placements.
In Australia, we are seeing good growth in demand for temporary placements but demand for permanent placements has levelled off.
In both these countries our priorities are focused on cost control and maximising profitability.
In most of the other countries in which we operate, we are currently seeing strong growth in demand for our services.
Our future Our aim is to create the leading global player in the specialist recruitment industry.
We acknowledge that current conditions are difficult in a number of areas and may well get tougher in the immediate future.
However, we will use the exibility in our business model to react quickly to such pressures and extend our market position wherever we operate.
What is really exciting is the structural growth potential we see around the world.
Specialist recruitment is a relatively new concept in most countries outside the United Kingdom and United States and we intend to be at the forefront in opening up these markets.
We have already built a powerful market leading position in the United Kingdom and Australia and the prospects of achieving the same in a whole host of other economies is very appealing indeed.
Alistair Cox Chief Executive Inside Hays: www.
com See an interview on our website with Alistair Cox, Chief Executive, focusing on the achievements in 2008 and the priorities for 2009.
