Chief Executives Q&A What, for you, were the highlights How does the Company engage of 2008?
2008 was a year of tremendous achievements One of the aims of moving to the Main Market for Heritage, both operationally and corporately.
of the London Stock Exchange was to Heritage remains Operationally, we continued with the 100% enhance the Companys status and profile committed to generating success rate in Uganda where we discovered among European investors and within the the Buffalo-Giraffe field which management international oil and gas sector as a whole.
shareholder value by considers to be the largest onshore discovery Communication with shareholders is given in Sub-Saharan Africa for 20 years.
This a high priority and we ensure there is regular focusing on high-impact discovery, in our operated Block 1, pushed dialogue with institutional investors, as well as the Albert Basin over the threshold required general presentations to analysts.
we have broadened our investor base and increased the research coverage, giving In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq we accelerated Heritage an increased profile.
We have also our work programme and within only 15 redesigned our website which is continually months of signing our licence we commenced updated to keep investors informed of drilling the prospective Miran West-1 well a our activities.
We also employed a full remarkable achievement highlighting the time investor relations specialist for the technical and managerial capabilities of first time who has coordinated an effective Heritage.
What does 2009 hold for Heritage?
2009 will be another exciting year for Heritage Corporately, Heritage listed on the Main Market What values define Heritage?
as we continue with high-impact exploration in of the London Stock Exchange in March 2008 Heritage has many core values that run our focus areas of Uganda and Kurdistan.
We and joined the FTSE 250 Index.
This has been through all our activities.
These include: are planning on returning to Block 1 in Uganda very advantageous for the Company, increasing respecting the laws and customs of later in the year with an exciting exploration the visibility of the Company and the liquidity of the countries in which we operate: and appraisal programme in this prolific basin.
supporting the communities in areas The Kurdistan Region of Iraq will also feature where we operate: prominently in 2009 as we are currently testing How has your strategy evolved over promoting long-term relationships with the Miran West-1 well.
Heritage remains committed to generating encouraging and supporting employees Do you have a message for shareholders?
to play their part in creating a better shareholder value by focusing on high-impact Exceptional exploration success has begun exploration with the potential to discover environment: to transform the Company within the last year motivating staff to retain and attract substantial hydrocarbon reserves.
Our strategy and we have delivered on promises made in of realising value for shareholders within our experienced employees: and our Annual Report last year.
Namely, we have the belief that shareholders long-term own portfolio has recently been demonstrated exceeded the volume threshold required to by the sale of our Oman holdings for $28 interests are best served by the pursuit justify development in Uganda and we have of businesses with high standards of million.
With this asset, Heritage had a minority commenced a high-impact drilling campaign interest in a non-operated licence with responsibility.
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
Heritage negligible reserves which was no longer has the ability to grow significantly over the considered integral to the portfolio.
We believe What distinguishes Heritage from coming years and we believe that we have the that the proceeds will generate greater value other companies within the sector?
management, technical expertise and strategy through reinvestment in our core activity areas to achieve this.
The Company has many competitive of Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
strengths, including: experienced management and technical team with a track-record of finding valuable oil discoveries: a geographically diversified portfolio of high-impact exploration plays: our demonstrated success as a first-mover in being awarded assets in territories such as Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq: and our proven track-record of realising value through asset sales.
08 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Heritage has the ability to grow significantly over the coming years.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09
