Chief Executives Review First Mover Advantage Operational success has dramatically transformed Heritage.
Our outstanding drilling successes in Blocks 1 and 3A in the Albert Basin, Uganda, mean we are now confident that sufficient volumes have been discovered to justify a major development.
The work programme on the Miran Block in The combination of aggressive investment, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq was accelerated prudent risk management and operating following the completion of a seismic survey excellence has yielded exceptional results in the second quarter of 2008.
The Miran throughout 2008 and into 2009.
This includes West-1 well, which commenced drilling on our discovery of the world-class Buffalo-Giraffe 21 December 2008, reached a total depth field in Block 1, Uganda where we are the of 2,935 metres on 25 March 2009.
well encountered oil shows over an interval of 1,100 metres with excellent oil shows over Africa the three targeted reservoir intervals.
A series Uganda of tests is being performed over a gross The world-class Kingfisher field in Block 3A interval of approximately 500 metres.
This significant achievements, coupled with listing on the Main discovery was surpassed with the discovery Market of the London Stock Exchange and of the large Buffalo-Giraffe field, in Block 1, the corporate reorganisation that raised the in January 2009.
On current estimates, the Companys profile as a significant player in Buffalo-Giraffe field has an area of approximately the international oil and gas industry, puts 48 square kilometres and an oil column of 140 us in excellent shape for the achievement metres.
The structure may extend even further of nearand long-term growth in production to include the Buffalo East prospect, creating a Anthony Buckingham and reserves and also in shareholder value.
very large structure of up to 90 square Chief Executive Officer kilometres.
Initial estimates for the Buffalo- 2008 was a year of extreme volatility in Giraffe field are recoverable resources of international crude oil markets, with price approximately 350 million barrels gross, fluctuations of a magnitude never seen before.
which is not only a major field in itself, but also Fortunately, as primarily an exploration significantly fide-risks the many other potential company with international projects in proven targets in the block.
light oil basins, Heritage was not dramatically affected by short-term price volatility and we Operations in this basin have continued to remain confident that the longer-term outlook achieve a 100% success rate as, to date, for oil and gas is positive.
The world will 21 successful exploration and appraisal continue to need hydrocarbons which will wells have been drilled with all encountering require new production from remote and hydrocarbons.
Further appraisal work on the challenging regions.
At Heritage we remain Kingfisher discovery produced some exciting committed to seeking out such opportunities results in 2008 with a record production test, and managing political and operational risk for any well drilled in Uganda, of 14,364 bopd.
with a diverse portfolio and a prudent mix of Additionally, the same three reservoir intervals exploration, development and production.
were encountered in all of the wells and, significantly, the areal extent of the field Our long-standing strategy of being an early was increased as oil was found structurally entrant in prospective regions, demonstrating higher than anticipated in the Kingfisher-3 our management and technical expertise, appraisal well.
and our commitment to building working relationships with local and international The Albert Basin will remain a high corporate companies and governments, gives us priority in coming years as the recent drilling the flexibility to react quickly to changing successes have raised the estimated circumstances.
04 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Drilling operations at Buffalo site, Block 1, Uganda resources of the basin above the threshold required for commercial development.
This is transformational for Heritage.
With a gross licence area in Uganda and the DRC in excess of 12,000 square kilometres equivalent to approximately 55 North Sea blocks the Albert Basin is now estimated to have multi-billion barrel reserve potential.
We are considering a number of fast-track development scenarios for the Albert Basin, including the possibility of a phased development with first production in 2011 by utilising the existing railway network in East Africa.
We are also considering an export pipeline to the coast as well as a scheme to service local markets.
In addition to the Kingfisher drilling activity, mapping of recent seismic data has identified a number of prospects offshore in Lake Albert within the Heritage operated Block 3A, including the structurally attractive Pelican potential to contain billions of barrels of oil in Heritage management believes that any prospect and the large Crane prospect.
An place from multiple potential reservoir targets.
outstanding issues between the government of offshore drilling programme that will include Drilling of the Miran West-1 well began in Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government the Crane and Pelican prospects is currently December 2008, a significant accomplishment will be resolved satisfactorily.
To that end, expected to begin in the first half of 2010. given that Heritage was awarded the licence the two parties formed a series of committees less than 15 months prior, in October 2007. to resolve issues.
There has been considerable Tanzania progress recently with the likelihood that first Heritage farmed-in to four licence areas in In March 2009, we announced drilling of oil from Kurdistan will be exported this year.
Tanzania in mid-2008, with a total area of the Miran West-1 well had completed and approximately 25,000 square kilometres.
reached a total depth of 2,935 metres.
The Oman In early 2009, Heritage completed the well encountered oil shows over an interval Following our exceptional success in Uganda acquisition of 2D seismic in-fill data on two of 1,100 metres, with excellent oil shows in and very encouraging drilling results in the blocks in Tanzania.
Future drilling locations the three principal proven reservoir formations Kurdistan Region of Iraq, we decided to sell will be identified once the data has been in the region the Shiranish, Kometan and our non-core 10% interest in Block 8 in Oman processed and interpreted.
Good quality light sweet oil was for $28 million, plus $400,000 in working recovered to surface as part of the drilling capital adjustments.
We believe that greater The Middle East operations.
A series of drill stem tests over a value can be generated by using this cash to gross interval of approximately 500 metres are Kurdistan Region of Iraq finance accelerated work programmes in The Kurdistan Region of Iraq is another being conducted during April 2009.
A further Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
announcement will be made when all tests primary focus area for Heritage, with the potential to find multi-billion barrels of have been completed.
Based on excellent quality seismic data acquired by Heritage during 2008, The operating environment for oil and gas companies in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq management has confirmed that the Miran Block contains two anticlines that have the remains relatively stable and secure, and Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05 Chief Executives Review continued First Mover Advantage In summary, Heritage has achieved Pakistan tremendous operating success during 2008 In December 2008, Heritage received and early 2009, leading to a world-class oil government approval for a farm-in to the discovery in Uganda and very encouraging Zamzama North Block in the Sindh Zone Recent drilling successes results from the Miran West-1 well in the Zone lll in southern Pakistan.
Heritage is the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, which is currently have raised the estimated operator and was awarded a 48% participating being tested.
We also achieved increases in interest in the block.
This has extended resources of the Albert production and expanded our portfolio of Heritages operations in Pakistan, which also properties.
Looking ahead, we believe we have include a 54% interest in, and operatorship of, Basin, Uganda, above the the financial and technical capability, combined the Sanjawi Block in the Baluchistan Zone with the management flexibility, to pursue Zone II in Pakistan.
This block contains a threshold required for opportunities to enhance the interests of our number of large anticlinal structures which commercial development.
We look forward to making could be potentially significant drilling targets.
substantial further progress and increasing shareholder value in both the nearand the Russia long-term.
Development of the Zapadno Chumpasskoye Licence in western Siberia, in which Heritage I would like to thank our staff, my fellow holds a 95% equity interest, continued during Directors and our shareholders for their 2008.
A third exploration and appraisal well continuing support.
was completed in the first half of 2008, and average daily oil production increased to 379 bopd in 2008.
Peak production of 900 bopd was achieved but the field was shut-in between December 2008 and February 2009 following a temporary reduction in the domestic oil price in Russia.
Production has Anthony Buckingham since recommenced at a level of approximately Chief Executive Officer 150 bopd but we expect this to increase over the year.
06 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Kingfisher-3 drill site, Block 3A, Uganda The Group aims to continue to generate growth in shareholder value by focusing on highimpact international plays.
Strategy Strengths The Group aims to continue to generate The Companys competitive strengths growth in shareholder value by focusing include: on high-impact international plays that provide multiple targets with Our ability to expand a portfolio of highthe potential to discover substantial impact international plays: in 2008 hydrocarbon reserves.
The Groups we extended our portfolio to include assets in Tanzania, Mali and Pakistan growth strategy is to acquire and invest in exploration and early development Experienced management and opportunities throughout the world, with technical teams with a track-record a particular emphasis on its core areas of finding valuable oil discoveries: we of Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
announced in January 2009 the worldclass Buffalo-Giraffe discovery To be successful, the Group has developed a highly effective network Our position in the Albert Basin of of influential industry, political and Uganda is considered by management institutional relationships.
These enable to have the potential to contain over the Group to gain access to a wide two billion barrels of oil reserves variety of new oil and gas business opportunities.
Our demonstrated success as a firstmover in acquiring assets in territories such as Uganda and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Our proven record of realising value through asset sales: $28 million was raised in April 2009 through the sale of Eagle Energy Oman Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Heritage Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07
