qxp 27 3 09 22:33 Page 28 28 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strategy Annual report 2008 Chief Executive Ofcers strategic review In this years report to shareholders, weve set out our vision to build Hikma into a world-class, leading speciality pharmaceutical company and the strategic priorities to achieve this vision, against which we can measure our progress.
In 2008, we made significant progress towards delivering on some of these priorities, particularly in the MENA region and in our speciality Injectables business.
In our Generics business in the US, however, we found delivering on our priorities more challenging.
Importantly, we ended the year on a stable footing in the US and better placed to drive each of our businesses forward in 2009.
Strengthening our leading position in the MENA region Our degree of focus on the fast-growing MENA region is unique and we increased our penetration of this valuable market in 2008 both through organic growth and the integration of two major acquisitions.
Total MENA sales reached $366 million in 2008, or 63% of Group sales an increase of 60% over 2007.
Clearly our business in the MENA region benefited from the fast growing local Said Darwazah Chief Executive officer pharmaceutical markets, which grew by an average of 18.5% in 2008, four times as fast as the global market.
Acquisitions also played an important role in the growth we achieved.
Following the integration of Hikma Egypt previously Alkan we are now rmly established in the Egyptian market, the second largest of the 17 private pharmaceutical markets in which we operate in the MENA region.
Hikma Egypts sales grew by 2008 Revenue 58% over the year reecting the benets of applying our sales and marketing $580.7m expertise and substantial improvements in operating efficiency.
The acquisition of Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing APM brought us valuable additional 2008 Operating profit manufacturing capacity in Jordan and also licences for a number of patented products that we are now selling throughout MENA.
Our sales effort has proven $113.8m very successful, with APMs revenues growing by 38% in 2008.
Developing our global product range in growing therapeutic areas 2008 Submissions Further growth in the MENA region as well as in Europe and the US came from 233 the development of our product portfolio.
We increased our product range in 2008, from 353 to 369 products, enhancing our potential in core markets and across all regions and markets in 2008 bringing opportunities in newer markets across all regions.
Importantly, we continued to increase our focus on higher margin, valueadded products in targeted therapeutic areas such as cardiovascular, CNS and oncology.
We also increased our emphasis on quality sales to ensure that we are getting the most in terms of profit and cash collection from the very strong Hikma brand name and reputation.
Trusted to deliver Our strategy 12751 p26 p57.
qxp 31 3 09 00:18 Page 29 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 29 Annual report 2008 Extending our reach and diversity through partnerships We seek to strengthen our relationships with all stakeholders within the healthcare MENA sales 60% $million value chain.
Expanding our in-licensed business with research-based multinational companies is a key part of this growth strategy and will enable us to continuously launch new innovative medical treatments valued by patients and physicians.
2008 365.9 4 Our in-licensed products performed extremely well in 2008, with sales growing by 63%.
Sales of in-licensed products acquired through acquisitions exceeded expectations and the Takeda products in particular, which include Actos and 5 Blopress, grew by 64% in 2008.
This growth was achieved in APMs existing 2007 229.2 markets.
As we begin to launch these products in new markets such as Egypt 7 and Algeria we expect to see incremental sales coming through in 2009.
2006 157.7 Increasing the scale of our speciality Injectables business 8 Our speciality Injectables business experienced rapid growth in sales in MENA and the US in 2008, up 43% and 29%, respectively.
This helped to compensate for the increase in pricing pressure in Germany.
0 We feel that our presence in the MENA region truly differentiates us from our global competitors.
As MENA sales increase as a percentage of overall Injectable sales, our profitability in this business should also improve.
Our developing presence in the eld of oncology is also a key strength and should help to drive future growth and improve profitability.
The global oncology 2008 Injectable sales and cancer care market is growing rapidly, with an increasing number of specialist % by region hospitals and clinics focused on treating this growing disease.
Oncology is targeted to represent an increasing percentage of Injectable sales in 2009 as we launch our oncology products in the MENA region and continue to roll out our oncology portfolio across Europe.
Leveraging our expertise and capacity in the US market MENA: 36% Sales in our Generics business in the US were adversely affected by the completion US: 17% Europe Injectables: 24% of a major Government supply contract at the end of 2007.
The absence of these Europe Oncology: 23% revenues in 2008 was coupled with deteriorating market conditions and intense competition and pricing pressure.
We have responded with a thorough overhaul of the business that has involved improving our ability to obtain cost-effective supplies of APIs from multiple sources, raising prices where possible, terminating unprofitable supply arrangements, improving manufacturing and distribution efficiencies and raising service levels.
We have also made several management changes.
qxp 31 3 09 00:19 Page 30 30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strategy Annual report 2008 Chief Executive Ofcers statement continued These actions, as well as the FDA-enforced withdrawal of some suppliers from the Capital expenditure 14.8% US market, helped the Generics business return to profitable trading in the last $m quarter of 2008 and we are confident that the business, which has an exemplary compliance record, will regain full year profitability in 2009.
2008 56.7 1 2006 53.2 Maintaining our world-class manufacturing capabilities 2007 49.4 In 2008 we invested approximately $57 million in expanding and upgrading 1 our capacity to meet growing demand.
Although the acquisitions we made in 2007 raised our capacity and also brought some new manufacturing processes, certain facilities have required upgrading to ensure the highest 0 0 quality of manufacture.
Acquisitions 0 0 Much of 2008 was spent integrating the four acquisitions we completed in 2007.
Looking forward, we are confident that there remains considerable scope for 0 0 further acquisitions, particularly in the MENA region, where the pharmaceutical market is highly fragmented and where many countries require or prefer a local manufacturing presence.
We are focusing efforts on acquisitions in countries where we do not currently have a direct presence or where we can accelerate our penetration of existing markets.
Management evolution Hikma has grown rapidly over the past couple of years, both organically and through our acquisitions.
This has brought a need to ensure that our increased size and complexity does not hinder our growth prospects and our exibility to quickly capture new revenue opportunities.
Furthermore, in our competitive industry and the current economic environment, we need to increase our focus on productivity, supply chain efficiency and returns on investment for our shareholders.
As a result, we will be adapting our management structure in order to facilitate these important priorities.
Our revenue generation functions of sales and marketing, business development, R&D and registration in both MENA and Europe will now be overseen by Taghreed Shunnar, who previously managed our Branded Business.
Freeing Taghreed and her team from production and operational activities will enable them to dedicate their efforts towards maintaining our top-line growth, creating new business opportunities and capitalising on them quickly.
Taghreed has demonstrated considerable success in growing our Branded business, both through Hikma products and licensing partnerships, and I am sure that she will maintain this track record for our sales in both MENA and Europe.
qxp 27 3 09 22:33 Page 31 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 31 Annual report 2008 The growing signicance of the MENA region in the Injectables business model Management changes has led to an increasing overlap between our Injectables and Branded supply mean we are focussing chains.
We have significant manufacturing capabilities in 12 facilities across seven countries in MENA and Europe and we are sure that there is significant room for on productivity, supply improvement if these facilities and their supply chains are managed in a more unied manner.
As a result, our operations teams in Europe and MENA will now chain efficiency and be working together in order to realise that potential.
returns on investment This will lead to enhanced working capital management, realisation of manufacturing, supply and distribution synergies, and help our sales function for our shareholders.
by efficiently delivering products to their customers when they need them Said Darwazah Chief Executive officer and where they need them.
Bassam Kanaan will be heading our efforts in this regard in addition to his role as Chief Financial officer.
Bassam has been with us for seven years now as Group CFO and his thorough understanding of our global operations will enable him and his team to make this change a success.
The sales and operations aspects of the Generics business will continue to be run by Mike Raya, given the unique characteristics of the US market and the management changes that we have made there that have already proved successful.
Majda Labadi, who previously led our Injectables segment, will now be heading up the critical function of Group Human Resources, so that we can attract and retain the talent Hikma needs to grow.
Our position in growing markets and broad geographical spread, combined with our strong brands and reputation for quality, gives us great confidence that we can deliver on our objective to become a leading global multinational speciality pharmaceutical company.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive officer 12751 p26 p57.
qxp 31 3 09 15:45 Page 32 32 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Our strategy Annual report 2008 Strengthening our leading position in the MENA region.
Our strong position in the MENA region is unique with operations in 17 MENA markets and more than 1,200 sales and marketing employees.
Recent acquisitions have enhanced our presence in existing MENA markets, brought high quality and complementary product portfolios and provided access to new markets, including the large and fast growing Egyptian market.
We are confident that the MENA region will continue to offer significant and sustainable market growth opportunities for our existing business and we continue to look for acquisitions across the region.
Branded business market share Increasing penetration of our core markets 1 Position Share 2 3 1 Jordan 1 12.4% At the end of 2008, Hikma is the fifth largest 2 Algeria 4 6.4% pharmaceutical manufacturer in the MENA region with a market share of 3.4% competing against 3 Saudi Arabia 5 4.9% major multinational pharmaceutical companies as Source: IMS Health.
MAT Dec. 08. well as local competitors.
In our core markets, Saudi Retail sales only.
Arabia, Algeria, Jordan and Sudan, we are one of the top 5 players and across all our markets many of our products have a market share of 15% or more.
qxp 1 4 09 17:42 Page 33 A technician in our Jordan facility The combined efforts and dedication of our employees have been an important factor behind Hikmas strong market position.
