Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Q&A with the CEO Further information Our overall aim is to create long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders and a safe and rewarding workplace for all our employees.
Where is our growth potential?
Corp, a gold company with prime We have a clear and focused strategy for development projects in Timmins, a delivering growth: to maximise existing mining prolific region of Canada.
28m operations and to bring into production Finally, following our cluster strategy, Attributable silver equivalent new and profitable precious metals we further consolidated our position in ounces to be produced in 2009. projects in the Americas.
As explained southern Peru via the acquisition of 50% overleaf, we will achieve this through a of the Liam JV, one of the largest single combination of organic, M&A and claim blocks in Peru with significant pipeline JV greenfield exploration mineral potential.
This strategy is underpinned by our overall aim of creating long-term, We have achieved all of this, whilst sustainable value for shareholders and maintaining a strong cash position with a safe and rewarding workplace for all over $116.1 million cash on the balance our employees.
sheet, ensuring that we are well positioned for the future.
What were the operational highlights of 2008?
What are Hochschilds key goals for 2008 was another strong operational 2009?
Once again, we Our aim for 2009 is to produce profitable achieved our production target, ounces and all our goals will follow from producing 26.1 million attributable silver this.
We have set a new production target equivalent ounces in the year.
We for 2009 which is to produce 28 million increased our capacity by 29% to 10,190 attributable silver equivalent ounces, tonnes per day, which means we have representing a 7% increase over 2008 more than doubled the Groups total production.
We will effectively control plant capacity since 2006.
In 2008, we costs and limit capital expenditure to also acquired 40% of Lake Shore Gold committed investments and sustaining 08 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Q&A with the CEO capital expenditures at existing Q.
2008 was a turbulent year for operations.
In addition, we will pursue global financial markets.
How has this strategic acquisitions and joint ventures impacted Hochschild?
Are you still 157% which either consolidate one of our confident about the long-term Increase in the Groups throughput existing clusters or provide entry into new, prospects for the company?
capacity in 2008. key mining districts.
Underpinning our Although the financial crisis has had a operations is a commitment to the health significant impact on the whole mining and safety of all Hochschilds employees.
sector, we remain extremely confident about the long-term prospects for Q.
You have made a number of Hochschild.
We have been in operation smaller investments: can you talk for over 40 years and during this time we through this approach?
have been through, and successfully We frequently take a staged, low risk managed, very difficult market conditions.
approach to acquisitions as this enables us to thoroughly evaluate opportunities We have taken very swift action to ensure Throughput before committing significant funds and that the business is equipped to deal capacity tpd ensures that we use management time with challenging precious metals prices.
In the last year we have This has included job cuts, a recruitment undertaken a number of smaller freeze and a reduction in administrative investments including a $17.9 million expenses and capital expenditure.
We strategic investment in Gold Resource have delayed our San Felipe project due Corporation, a precious metals company to the sharp drop in zinc prices and will with a number of development projects also consider reducing production, in southern Mexico.
We currently hold 15% putting into care and maintenance or of the company with the right to increase closing any mines which are considered our stake to 40% by 2010.
Our focus is to completed a $1.5 million investment in produce profitable ounces and Mariana Resources, an exploration management will ensure that we reach company with projects in Argentina this objective.
In addition to these measures, we have Q.
You have said that the current taken the prudent decision to sell climate has created some interesting forward 10.7 million ounces of our 2009 M&A opportunities for Hochschild.
silver equivalent production in order to Can you provide some detail on your lock-in some certainty over our cash current pipeline?
flow to fund operating capex and future Excludes Moris, our only open pit We are seeing some particularly M&A initiatives.
mine, as it has a different operational interesting opportunities in the current profile to our underground mines.
market environment, where some juniors Q.
Can you talk through your decision are facing difficult financing issues and to delay San Felipe?
looking for partners to bring projects into Zinc prices fell by over 46% from a high of production.
We have positioned $2,267 mt to $1,218 mt in the six months to ourselves as partner of choice in the 20 November 2008 when we Americas and this is helping to attract announced our decision.
In this price some excellent prospects.
environment and given our decision to minimise capital expenditure, we Our approach is conservative and concluded that it would be prudent to disciplined.
We focus on mid-sized, delay development of this project.
San underground precious metals projects in Felipe remains a key asset for the Group the Americas around existing clusters and we will continue to review the viability and on projects in new, mineral rich and timing of the project.
areas which will deliver long-term shareholder value.
09 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2006 2,800 2007 4,890 2008 7,190 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Q&A with the CEO continued Further information Q.
What is your view on precious I am committed to delivering our metal prices?
As We continue to believe in the long-term mentioned earlier, in 2008 we once prospects for precious metals.
However, again achieved our stated production given current market volatility, we have and also completed three capacity taken the prudent measure of selling expansions on schedule.
We achieved forward 10.7 million of 2009 silver this whilst making significant progress in equivalent production, as mentioned relation to our safety record.
We have not sold forward any of ongoing priority for the whole team at our 2010 production and do not plan to Hochschild and I am pleased that we undertake any further forward sales made significant strides in this area in contracts in 2009.
2008 with a 24% reduction in our accident frequency rate and 81% in the Q.
Are you still focused on achieving accident severity index.
the 50 million target stated at the time of the IPO?
How do you measure your Our long-term goals remain the same.
We continue to work towards achieving Our objective is to create long-term, the 50 million target and have some sustainable value for our shareholders interesting prospects that could support and a safe and rewarding workplace for this.
Unfortunately, the global economic all our employees.
We are extremely climate changed in 2008 and, as a confident about the long-term prospects result, our primary focus for the near term of the Company and our strategy is on guaranteeing profitable ounces.
remains consistent as detailed opposite.
Long-term, we believe that the sector and the wider economy will recover and that Hochschild will come through this period in a strong position and with a solid platform from which to deliver growth.
Miguel Arambur Chief Executive Officer Q.
This is your first year as CEO, what 24 March 2009 has been your greatest achievement?
Taking on the role of CEO has been an exciting and challenging task for me, particularly following on from Eduardo Hochschild who is such a strong and inspiring leader.
Ive had the fortune to work for the Group for over 13 years and this has put me in a good position to take the Company forward.
Our swift response to the financial crisis was one of the greatest achievements of 2008 and I am extremely proud of the Companys ability to adapt to such difficult conditions.
We were one of the first mining companies to announce a proactive plan of action to the market and hopefully this indicates the commitment and pragmatism of the management team.
10 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
