DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chief Executives Review We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially strengthened our business.
Gareth Davis, Chief Executive Significant potential for further growth Performance Overview Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of We have completed the mergers of The acquisition of Altadis has been the premium brands, we also have particular the Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales highlight of an eventful year for Imperial teams in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria, strength in the value segment enabling Tobacco.
Our overall cigarette volumes Belgium and Italy, and closed our cigar us to capitalise on consumer downtrading were up 46 per cent to 292 billion and ne cut tobacco factory in Slovakia.
in mature markets, a trend that is likely to cigarettes, including contributions from continue in the current economic climate.
The consultation process in France and Altadis and Commonwealth Brands.
the UK has been completed, enabling Our continued success in the contrasting Our cigarette portfolio is complemented us to begin implementing our projects markets of the USA, Eastern Europe, by our world leadership in ne cut tobacco in these markets in early 2009, while in Africa and the Middle East was particularly and cigars.
Overall, ne cut tobacco Spain and Germany the consultations pleasing and demonstrates our ability volumes were up to 25,150 tonnes, are ongoing.
We continue to offer to successfully develop our business while cigar volumes were 2.5 billion.
comprehensive support to all employees in both mature and emerging markets.
affected by our integration projects.
The enlarged Group has an enhanced Integration geographic prole and multi-product Regulation The integration of Imperial Tobacco portfolio and during the year we increased We continue to effectively manage the and Altadis has been a key focus our cigarette and ne cut tobacco shares increasing levels of regulation affecting.
during the year and volumes across many territories.
We support sound and Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities proportionate regulation that respects Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff adult freedom of choice and recognises presented by our combined portfolio and Gauloises Blondes, performed very and enhanced geographic footprint, that tobacco products are enjoyed by well, complemented by further growth millions of people worldwide.
We have we have been managing the consultation from a number of regional brands a long history of co-operation with process related to our European including Gitanes and JPS.
authorities in the markets in which integration projects.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth we operate and remain committed These projects affect sales and marketing, by developing our brands and products to continuing to work constructively manufacturing and central support through investment and innovation, with individual governments and functions in a number of markets and will other regulatory bodies.
supported by excellent trade marketing improve our competitiveness by reducing skills and strong sales forces.
Corporate Responsibility over-capacity and improving efficiencies.
Our versatile portfolio is characterised Our ongoing commitment to manage We concluded the European consultation by great brands and products across our business responsibly is fundamental process in September and have made to our long-term success.
As a global all price segments, which provides very good progress on the national considerable growth opportunities given tobacco company we recognise the consultations and implementation the large and diverse number of markets importance of manufacturing, marketing in which we operate.
of our projects in many markets.
and selling our products responsibly.
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Over the years we have taken an Altadis related events in 2008 increasingly strategic approach to promoting responsible behaviour On 25 January 2008 we completed the acquisition of Altadis, strengthening through dened governance structures, our position as one of the worlds leading international tobacco companies.
The transaction was the catalyst for a series of further related events, which We have also established robust risk are highlighted in the table below.
management procedures, progressed our non-financial performance reporting 26 Feb 2008 Offer for Logista processes and further developed our Altadis held a 59.6 per cent share in Logista, the largest distributor Five-for-Five corporate responsibility of tobacco and other products in Southern Europe.
Under Spanish initiative which was launched last year.
takeover law we were required to make a tender offer for the outstanding shares or reduce the shareholding to below 30 per cent.
Further information on our progress is We launched an unconditional offer for the outstanding shares held by outlined on page 35 of this report and minority shareholders at a price of 52.50 per share.
This offer closed our detailed Corporate Responsibility on 6 May 2008 with acceptances taking our overall holding to 96.9 per Review will be published in December.
cent, and enabling a squeeze-out of the remaining 3.1 per cent, which Our People was completed in June 2008.
The additional cost of this transaction The development of our employees is was 925 million and Logistas shares were subsequently delisted.
critical if we are to continue delivering sustainable shareholder value and I am 14 Apr 2008 Aldeasa disposal proud of the success of the leadership We completed the disposal of the 49.95 per cent shareholding in programmes we have in place.
We seek Aldeasa, a Spanish-based airport duty free retailer, that we acquired to support and develop people in all with Altadis.
The sale, for a consideration of 355 million, was to functions and at all levels, from senior managers to employees who are at an Autogrill Espana, the other partner in the joint venture.
early stage of their career.
Our programmes are run on an 23 Apr 2008 Divestiture of tobacco brands The divestment of a small number of brands in certain European international basis and participants are often tasked with managing business markets was a condition of the European Commissions approval of the Groups acquisition of Altadis and we therefore agreed the sale of projects on behalf of the Chief Executives Committee.
I have been extremely certain ne cut and pipe tobacco brands to Philip Morris International for impressed with the results, which have a total consideration of 254 million.
The divestment was completed on highlighted the significant and growing 30 June 2008 and will not materially affect the operational and financial talent pool we have within the business.
The gain realised on the divestment was 174 million.
Outlook The integration of Altadis will remain a priority going forward.
We have an 20 May 2008 Launched rights issue excellent track record of integrating new We announced the launch of a fully underwritten rights issue to raise businesses into the Group and remain 4.9 billion to repay part of the debt facilities put in place to fund the cash on course to successfully deliver our consideration paid for the acquisition of Altadis.
The basis of the rights targeted cost savings.
issue was 1 new share for every 2 existing shares held on 15 May 2008 at a subscription price of 1475 pence per share.
At the close of the rights Leveraging our enhanced operating issue on 11 June 2008 valid acceptances had been received in respect platform and stronger, more diversied of 97.2 per cent of the total number of new shares offered.
This was an brand and product portfolio will be key excellent response considering the financial climate and the remainder to driving future growth and I am confident of the shares were successfully sold by the underwriters on 12 June 2008. that we will realise the potential of the many opportunities that lie ahead.
19 Jun 2008 Integration announcement Combined with our ongoing focus on cost We announced a number of European restructuring projects that we and effectively managing our cash, we propose to implement progressively over the next three years as part remain well placed to continue to create of the integration of Imperial Tobacco and Altadis.
We believe that the sustainable value for our shareholders.
Group will be able to generate annual operating efficiencies from these restructuring projects of around 300 million by the end of the financial year ending 30 September 2010, rising to around 400 million by the end of the financial year ended 30 September 2012.
We estimate that the one-off cash cost of achieving these efficiencies will be around 600 million.
Gareth Davis Chief Executive For more information visit www.
