6 Business review Group Chief Executives review We are a proven industry leader, solidly positioned for market recovery.
Andr Lacroix Inchcape is a leading independent, We have more than 160 years of successful Group Chief Executive international automotive distributor and international trade experience based on retailer, with scale operations in Australia, a pioneering spirit that has seen us at the Belgium, Greece, Hong Kong, Russia, forefront of every industry in which we have Singapore and the UK as well as operations participated.
Our focus today is squarely in 19 other markets.
We represent some of on the car market where we have been the worlds leading automotive brands with an industry leading retailer and distributor whom we have long-standing relationships.
We continue to owe this pre-eminence to two fundamental factors: During 2008, the car industry faced the resilience of our business model, and unprecedented challenges as the economic the clarity of our vision and strategy.
downturn spread rapidly across the world.
In addition, we have an exceptional senior While Inchcape is not immune to the team with an in-depth knowledge of the downturn, I believe we are well placed to automotive industry and local markets and ride it out successfully, based on the intrinsic who share a collective record of decisive, strengths of our business together with the successful management in the face of prudent and decisive actions we are taking, economic upheaval.
so that we will be well positioned to capitalise on market recovery.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover V e h i s c t l r e a s P a l e s D s G r r i e o s v i t w r l r d i t i h a e b 7 Inchcapes history of outperformance is due to the key strengths of our business model Solid... and the clarity of our vision and strategy.
A proven track record A diversied and resilient business model A clear vision and strategy 160 years of international To be the worlds business experience most customerBroad geographic spread centric automotive Diversified multi-channel business model retail group Prudent governance Long-standing brand partner relationships Experienced management team A diversied and resilient business model These diversied income streams our value Our goal of creating and delivering the We believe our business model has a number drivers give us both the growth opportunities ultimate customer experience is a key of key strengths including a diversity that that drive our business forward new and used differentiator for Inchcape in our industry car sales, third-party finance and insurance and provides the basis of our long-standing ensures resilience and provides a balanced products and defensive income aftersales relationships with many of the worlds portfolio of income streams.
service and parts that becomes increasingly leading motor manufacturers.
Our passion First, we have a broad geographic spread important in times of economic difficulty.
for superior customer service reects directly with scale positions and a presence across on the reputation of our brand partners, Aftersales represents approximately 50% of both mature and emerging markets.
We making this a compelling reason for them to our gross margin.
This is an area on which benefit from a decentralised organisational select Inchcape as their partner of choice.
we are focusing greater resources than model which enables us to stay close to ever before as an integral component of This Customer 1st approach is central to our changes in the marketplace and react our Customer 1st strategy, emphasising the business and drives decisions taken at every quickly to ex our operational focus.
We quality and value benets for car-owners level of the organisation.
Understanding the enjoy a leading market share in many in staying with their franchise retailer after customers view of our performance is vital markets thanks to our first-hand experience the expiry of their warranty period.
and we continue to invest strongly in and hard-won knowledge of different buying mystery shopper and customer feedback preferences and our relentless focus on It is a significant area of opportunity for programmes and leading technologies superior customer service.
us as even during times of declining new to support our activities.
These combine to vehicle sales, the total population of cars Second, we have long-standing relationships give us a constant view of our performance on the road the car parc continues to with strong brand partners who outperform from the customers perspective and help grow and more motorists concentrate on the market, giving us access to a pipeline us identify opportunities the moment maintaining rather than replacing their of attractive new models.
Our brand strategy they emerge.
is market specic, enabling us to t the right The combination of our unique business brand with the right market to pursue our Our focus on maximising the economic model and our differentiating customer core purpose of creating the ultimate contribution of all our value drivers by focus has underpinned Inchcapes success customer experience for our brand partners, constantly driving new efficiencies has for many years.
Today, it is enabling us to whilst aiming to maximise market share.
enabled us historically to deliver strong outperform our competitors in the most margins.
We seek to continue to improve our Third, we have a multi-channel structure, in difficult trading conditions to affect our performance throughout 2009, when difficult which our Distribution businesses where we industry for more than a generation.
market conditions mean that maximising represent every aspect of a brand partners returns will be particularly important.
presence in a specic national market have historically delivered stable, strong cash A clear vision and strategy generation and our Retail businesses provide Meeting our vision of being the industrys access to diversied and resilient sources of most customer-centric retailer anywhere in revenue through, for example, aftersales the world is fundamental to the success of service and parts.
com t v d u i e s r t i R n v i F e i e o f n r e s n a D n c e e a c n i v d r I e n S s u r a n c e 8 Business review Group Chief Executives review continued We have been responsive to the rapid and unprecedented industry Responsive... downturn and are proactively managing the business with a high-impact programme.
Our five key priorities 1 2 3 4 5 Growing Growing Reducing Managing Reducing market aftersales costs working capital share capital expenditure Focusing on brand Further Prompt action by Focusing on Reducing management, strengthening reducing employee working capital discretionary customer funnel customer service, headcount, closing control to bring capital expenditure conversion, increasing non-profitable sites inventory levels in agreement with outstanding service customer retention and reducing all in-line with market brand partners and new product and enhancing non-essential demand launches productivity programmes p11 p12 p13 p14 p15 Managing the downturn Aftersales growth Additionally, we are negotiating harder We have responded swiftly to the economic Growing our aftersales business will come than ever before on everything we spend downturn with decisive management action from focused service and parts marketing, and successfully taking advantage of a strong emphasis on retaining customers reduced advertising media costs.
to make our business even sharper, more effective and more efficient.
We believe and providing outstanding levels of customer Working capital management this will help us both minimise the negative service through, for example, ourVehicle Managing our working capital as efficiently impact from the current downturn and Health Check.
The key for us today is to as possible is a top priority right across the recognise and respond to every transaction prepare us to emerge stronger when business.
Unsold stock on forecourts is a as an opportunity to build a long-term the market recovers.
We have narrowed major expense for any motor retailer and customer relationship that delivers value our management focus to the five basics we have set stock reduction targets across of our business, ourve key priorities: to both parties.
This is central to our the Group.
We have the support of our Customer 1st strategy.
growing market share whilst protecting brand partners to match our inventory margins: growing aftersales: reducing costs: Further, in our aftersales workshops, we levels to the new market demand, which managing working capital: and reducing continue to apply ourselves to driving is successfully helping us to contain our uncommitted capital expenditure.
productivity enhancement and therefore working capital levels.
Focusing on these priorities now, means Capital expenditure reduction that we will be well-placed to take Cost reduction Our forward capital expenditure programme advantage of the growth opportunities In terms of cost saving, we already have is largely driven by the agreements we have that come with recovery.
a major restructuring programme under in place with our brand partners, some of way that will deliver an annualised benefit which commit us to building new retail Market share growth of approximately 58m, based on 2009 centres in an agreed expansion timetable.
Growing market share whilst protecting exchange rates.
This includes a 12% The excellent relationships we have with margins in our Retail businesses springs reduction of our global workforce, tight new our brand partners however, mean we directly from our Customer 1st strategy, with a restrictions on travel and a retail site and have been able to defer some projects.
focus on trafc conversion through rigorous, ofce rationalisation which by the first half In addition, we are slowing some aspects disciplined sales processes and outstanding of 2009 will have resulted in the closure of of the implementation of our new SAP levels of customer service.
Further, in todays 24 less profitable sites, comprising 16 retail system across the Group, while streamlining market, our ability to help customers gain centres, one used car centre and one its adoption in our Retail business to benefit access to the finance credit they need to PDI centre in the UK, two retail centres in as rapidly as possible from its main buy a car is a clear advantage.
In our Greece and four in the Baltics.
Distribution businesses we will grow our has implemented a general hiring freeze market share through disciplined marketing and a policy of no salary increases in 2009 effectiveness, taking full advantage of our or management bonuses for 2008. brand partnersnew product launches and offering strong value for money propositions to our customers.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 9 We are planning for the future, so that when the recovery comes we will be uniquely Confident positioned to take advantage of the growth opportunities and emerge stronger.
Emerging a winner Industry factors Inchcape factors Structural growth in Scale operations in core emerging markets mature and emerging markets Vehicle replacement A leader in 14 markets in mature markets Strong brand partners Industry consolidation Decentralised, customerRealignment of vehicle centric, able to respond swiftly supply and demand to market conditions Leaner and fitter Solidly positioned for market recovery Solidly positioned for market recovery demand, which should lead to enhanced I see our people displaying a true We are confident that taking these margins on both new and used cars.
Inchcape spiritand a real passion for delivering exceptional customer service.
proactive steps now will prepare us for the For all these reasons, we are excited by best possible performance once the market our future prospects, while recognising In short, our proven business model and recovers when, we believe, opportunities the medium-term challenges that we face.
strategy, allied with the rm and prudent will be significant.
We see a number of And we have a number of Inchcape-specic actions being taken by our experienced structural and economic factors that will factors that give us great confidence.
management teams today, mean that help shape the future of our industry.
Inchcape is set to emerge from the We operate as market leader in many current downturn leaner, stronger and It is likely that, when it comes, recovery will markets with a scale position and with take place faster in the emerging markets, more successful than ever.
brand partners who continue to outperform where the current low levels of car ownership the industry and who have the resources We are confident that we will emerge means that there is greater potential for to innovate and stimulate demand.
the demand for new and used vehicles to benefit from a pipeline of new products increase.
We will be able to use our existing which are set to deliver better value, better presence in those emerging markets to performance and lower CO2 emissions.
Following a period of integration, our aim However, there will be significant opportunities is to have established scale operations in in the mature markets too, stemming from the emerging markets, enabling them to make Andr Lacroix need for vehicle replacement as the car parc a growing contribution to the Group.
Group Chief Executive ages, combined with technological innovation Our decentralised organisational model which will both stimulate demand and drive gives us a significant advantage as we down the cost of ownership.
are capable of responding rapidly to the Industry consolidation means that we changes in our industry.
will face a reduced number of competitors Superior levels of customer service based in some of our markets, so that when the on our differentiating Customer 1st strategy recovery comes it is likely that we will be and leading retail operating systems will growing from a position of higher market help us grow share in many of our markets.
share, providing the opportunity for improved throughput and economic performance of As an organisation, we will be leaner and our retail centres.
more efficient which will provide us with leverage when the market returns.
Further, we believe vehicle manufacturers will address the current oversupply of vehicles Further, I am constantly impressed by by rationalising their production to create the quality of our employees across the a better balance between supply and Group.
Despite the economic downturn, www.
