Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review Publishing As the most stable part of the Group, our publishing assets, Renewal rates for 2009 remained constant at 98% led by high renewal rates in our subscription products, demonstrating the must have nature of our content.
have delivered another excellent set of results.
Continued In order to make it easier for our customers to access our investment this year in online product development has products we continue to develop our online product resulted in over 70% of our publishing revenue being directory.
All of our journals are available electronically.
We now have over 20,000 titles as e-books, and have over 18,000 titles as print on demand.
Revenue in these areas Revenues grew by approximately 10% normalising the increased by 30%.
impact of Datamonitor and overall our publishing businesses account for approximately 50% of Group revenues and 57% Enhanced production methods, including print on demand, of Group adjusted operating profits.
have reduced costs and we have continued to work hard to reduce the stock held within our substantial back list.
Taylor & Francis, our specialist books and journals publisher in the Academic and Scientific sector, delivered its best Revenue by Sector ever result.
With subscription renewals based around the calendar year and a high proportion of its revenues in dollars, the forward visibility of T&Fs earnings gives significant confidence to the overall outlook for 2009.
During 2008, T&F launched 31 new journals, publishing 6,791 issues in total, a 24% increase on last year and sold over 5.4 million books across 175 countries generating 14% revenue growth at an improved margin.
Sector % of total revenue Health & Pharmaceutical 20% Finance & Management 15% Humanities & Social Sciences 28% Science & Technology 16% Other 21% Our newest division, Informa Business Information, which combines our healthcare, professional, commodities and maritime publishing assets, also had a very strong year with revenues up by 4% excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals.
Renewal rates remained consistent at 77% and advertising revenue was resilient throughout 2008.
We have a number of key titles including Scrip, Lloyds List and Insurance Day which hold strong positions in their respective markets and grew over the past 12 months.
On the data side, LMIU and Citeline, provide must-have critical information on shipping movements to the maritime industry and drug trials to the pharmaceutical sector respectively.
We expect these areas to continue to grow in 2009.
8 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Executives Review Our financial data divisions, despite the turmoil in the sector, had a good year with organic adjusted profit growth of 11% over 2007 and renewal rates at an average of 86%.
We expect renewals to come under pressure in 2009 but we have more than 7,500 customers and no significant exposure to one single financial institution.
Datamonitor, in its first full year of ownership, continued to grow and increased its operating margin.
During the year, we launched an enhanced suite of Knowledge Centres across our six principal vertical sectors and also opened a new office in Dubai utilising the Informa Group network.
In particular, the healthcare and telecoms sector performed well and overall the subscriber base continues to grow with almost 1,000 new subscribers since the business was acquired.
Our larger subscribers, paying more than 20,000 per annum, grew by Event Topic Sector Distribution 19% and had a renewal rate of 83%.
In the prevailing economic by Number of Events outlook, we expect the rate of growth at Datamonitor to slow but nevertheless believe that, as one of our higher margin businesses, it will make a substantial contribution to the Groups 2009 results.
We have also been successful in winning some large consulting projects to complement the core subscription data that we provide.
Overall within publishing the year has started well.
We will strive to enhance our product offering, build upon our market leading positions in many areas and ensure that Sector % of events where appropriate we will work closely to align with the Energy & Utilities 7% relevant event business.
Finance 14% Tax Law Accounting 14% Events Health & Pharmaceutical 11% Industrial 9% Our events portfolio, spread across the major verticals and Marketing 4% geographies delivered another set of excellent results given Leisure & Food 1% the prevailing economic conditions last year.
Revenues grew Management 15% by 8% and contributed 34% of Group revenues and around Other 5% 30% of Group adjusted operating profits.
Human Resources 6% Real Estate Property Construction 3% Our customer retention supports our view that a market Public Sector 1% Technology & Telecoms 10% leading exhibition or large conference is the best place for providers to meet their customer base, learn about developments in their market and network.
Face to face contact remains just as important in the digital age.
The portfolio is weighted towards the first half of the year given there are few events run over the summer months.
Our portfolio of events and topics evolves as we track trends At the start of the year we ran many of our largest events in the sectors in which we operate.
Training courses and including Arab Health, Middle East Electricity, SuperReturn smaller events are produced around new legislation.
and our Industry leading energy event in Germany.
Revenues Emerging themes like the environment, or alternative fuels, from these events are in aggregate significantly ahead of last year.
or changes in the marketplace, such as the establishment of a mobile telephone network in Africa, provide us with As world economies started to slow down and training opportunities to deliver the much needed information in a budgets were constrained, we saw reduced demand for our contextual and concise form to a wide audience.
We start local language conferences and training courses, leading us to with a single topic and build it into a large scale event.
Throughout 2008, over 8 million We combine conferences with exhibitions, and link was saved primarily by reducing events costs reflecting the conferences to publications and geo-clone.
The total number of events run last year was around 11,000 2007: 12,600.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 9 Chief Executives Review Profitability is weighted heavily towards our larger, higher Revenues marginally increased to 229.4m 2007: 225.3m.
The top 200, categorised as those that With a focus on reducing the indirect cost base throughout generate revenues greater than 250k, account for nearly 70% the year and helped by currency, profits increased by 11% to of our events profits.
Consequently, if the overall number of 39.1m 2007: 35.3m at an increased margin of 17.0% events is reduced by around 10% it is the smaller training 2007: 15.7%.
courses which are eliminated and this has a proportionately smaller impact on profits.
Revenue by Sector While it has been a much tougher trading environment, our long-standing market position, our exposure to the Middle East, our geo-cloning strategy and our reputation across our broad customer base resulted in some notable achievements: Over 100,000 visitors to Cityscape Dubai and Abu Dhabi 99 Super Yachts at the Monaco Yacht Show in September Over 5,000 delegates in Africa across our Com Series of four events 2,250 exhibitors at Arab Health in January and record Sector % of total revenue sponsorship at CROs in April Energy & Utilities 3% Finance 22% Cityscape was run in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai, Tax Law Accounting 1% Singapore and New York Health & Pharmaceutical 5% Super Return was run in Munich, Florida, Dubai and Manufacturing & Industrial 9% Hong Kong Leisure & Food 2% Management 9% The global financial crisis has impacted our financial service Other 7% events, however, conferences and events across the telecoms, Government 34% pharmaceutical and health sectors remain robust.
With a Technology & Telecoms 8% broad portfolio diversifying risk, we are well placed to grow again when the recovery occurs.
Despite the difficult times, PI had many notable wins.
Performance Improvement Significant new contracts were secured with BP, US Army Performance Improvement PI, the smallest area of the and Deutsche Post as well as renewing other major projects Group, which comprises six separate businesses, had a with the US Federal Government.
The Deutsche Post satisfactory year given the macro environment in which contract award at ESI was to develop employee skills in it operated.
Business Analysis and Project Management.
With over 400 consultants involved, this project will be delivered globally in Germany, Czech Republic, US and Malaysia, emphasising the benefit of running PI operations across many jurisdictions.
US federal and state government work accounts for around 34% of PI revenues and a further 22% of revenues arise outside of the United States.
Robbins Gioia, the programme management specialist, which has around 100 contracts with the US government, had another solid year renewing over 90% of its defence contracts although there was a noticeable slowing in the time taken to award contracts in the period leading up to the US presidential election last November.
Early commitments by the Obama administration in the areas of defence and civil expenditure are expected to lead to a solid year in 2009.
As a lead indicator, PI started to see a reduction in demand and a slowdown in decision making in the final quarter of 2007 which resulted in 2008 being a year of cost reduction whilst maintaining the overall quality of its varied offering.
We anticipate further revenue weaknesses in 2009 and will manage costs accordingly.
10 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
