Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review In an environment of significant economic turmoil, we are pleased to report that Inmarsat has produced record results and that in our thirtieth year, we look forward with continued optimism to developing our business further.
Andrew Sukawaty Chairman and Chief Executive officer Thirty years ago, in July 1979, Inmarsat section on pages 2 and 3, the longevity of Awards was created as an intergovernmental our three satellite constellations is visually organisation and started its satellite displayed, with the Inmarsat-4 eet operations in 1982 with three leased expected to be operating well into the Winner satellites.
Additionally, we have a satellite in Most Innovative Use of New Technology launched 12 satellites and built a construction which will further extend our Network Middle East Innovation Awards 2008 successful global business.
Our data services, and our next generation system Dubai, May 2008 is in the planning phase.
This satellite speeds have increased from 9.6kbps to almost half a megabyte per second life expectancy, along with the years of Winner compatibility we offer on our new satellites Best Satellite Carrier and all our services are now digital.
Telecom Asia Awards 2008 Our share ownership has changed from for existing terminals, provides our Thailand, May 2008 customers with the knowledge that they an intergovernmental organisation, through private equity ownership to an can use our services for many years into Winner the future.
This enables them to invest established widely held, international, Award for Innovation publicly traded company.
in our services with confidence, knowing Lloyds List Awards 2008 that they will get a return on their London, April 2008 We have made significant progress in investment in terminals and service.
how we operate as a business, yet our Silver Award reputation for reliability of service and We have spent time reviewing how the Inight Connectivity - given for Inmarsat aero advertising global economic downturn could affect innovation of solutions supported by Air Transport World Ad Awards 2008 excellent operational expertise remain our business.
It is the responsibility of your Board and management team to closely as consistent now as 30 years ago.
We Bronze Winner continue to provide mission critical monitor the sectors in which we operate Industry Award for Effective Communication and to be able to respond to changes in applications to customers operating in - given for Introducing Inmarsat video trends.
Key areas we review include weekly extreme environments.
Our global services International Visual Communications Association revenue trends, indices for the maritime work the same wherever you go and this IVCA Awards 2008 market such as dry cargo and freight rates, consistency of service function is vital to London, April 2008 new ship orders and maritime rets.
In the many of our customers operations.
We Special Commendation aeronautical market, we consider demand give them the confidence to drive their Most Effective Business-to-Business Title for business jet orders and performance of own businesses knowing that they can - given for Via Inmarsat the air transport and commercial airlines.
rely on our services to assist them.
Association of Publishing Agencies APA We also have regular general updates Effectiveness Awards 2008 covering all areas of the business.
We The life-span of our satellite constellations London, November 2008 are fortunate that many of the customers allows our customers to invest in a service we serve, because of their own business which they can count on to be reliable for Several individuals were also recognised needs, rely on our communications many years to come.
In the at a glance with industry awards during 2008.
4 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 4 27 3 09 17:08:36 27 3 09 17:08:36 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat-4 global broadband coverage 90 Inmarsat-4 Americas 80 Inmarsat-4 EMEA 70 60 Inmarsat-4 Asia-Pacic 50 40 30 20 10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 solutions and services even as economic 30.33 cents US$ per share, compared satellites and networks which had started conditions uctuate.
Our business benets to 28.88 cents US$ per share in 2007. its embryonic development in 1998. from the diversity of the sectors and Including this satellite, we have 11 customers we serve: on land, sea and air.
Revenues for Inmarsat Core were operational satellites from three different US$634.7m, up 13.9% from 2007. satellite constellations.
Our Inmarsat-4 As I reported in the 2007 Annual Report, Our EBITDA rose from US$383.5m to constellation is supported by our three we are required to consolidate the results US$431.6m representing the benets Satellite Access Stations SAS in the of CIP UK Holdings Limited CIP which of strong revenue growth and continued Netherlands, Italy and more recently includes Stratos Global Corporation careful cost control.
significant work was completed Stratos into our Inmarsat plc results.
increased by 26% from US$209.3m to to bring the Hawaii SAS into operation in Stratos is our largest distributor and from US$264.6m.
This revenue growth has time for the launch of the third Inmarsat-4 15 April 2009, we are able to exercise a continued to ensure that we are delivering satellite.
The Hawaii SAS provides call option through Inmarsat Finance III against and comfortably exceeding the essential network backhaul and satellite Limited to acquire CIP which holds revenue growth target of 5-6% per annum control support for our broadband family the shares of Stratos through its own set at the time of our public company of services in the Americas and Asia on subsidiary company, CIP Canada listing in 2005.
We increased this target to two of our Inmarsat-4 satellites.
The funding for this 6-8% annual growth through 2010, and we acquisition was put in place in December have continued to exceed this target.
We do not yet own Stratos and satellites in orbit was first to complete cannot do so until 15 April 2009.
We A key area of discussion in these turbulent the global service for our new broadband expect to exercise our option to acquire times for all companies has been liquidity services and second to provide greatly them at the earliest opportunity.
While our Board enhanced coverage on land.
Of course, has responsibly focused on this, overall with this move we continue to ensure high My report will therefore focus on the we are comfortable with having one of the quality oceanic cover for our maritime results for the Inmarsat operating lowest debt levels in our industry, strong users.
With the third Inmarsat-4 satellite business, excluding CIP and Stratos, and growing revenues and cash ows, and operational, we were then able to start which is referred to as Inmarsat Core.
a major capex investment programme that preparations to achieve the enhanced I will provide some additional information is behind us.
Our debt tends to be longcoverage and have now repositioned our regarding Stratos later in my report.
term in nature and our deleveraging satellites to offer global broadband service through cash ow growth has provided on the Inmarsat-4 constellation.
Our Your Board is recommending, as a result of a solid basis for support by the financial recongured Inmarsat-4 satellite eet these strong results, that the final dividend institutions.
We have no major new positions us better than at any previous be increased to 18.20 cents US$ per funding requirements planned for 2009. time to meet the expanding needs of share, a 5% increase from 2007 and will customers and capture more growth be paid on 29 May 2009, following On the investment front, in August 2008, while continuing to develop our market shareholder approval at the 2009 AGM.
we successfully launched the third leading products.
With the interim dividend which was paid Inmarsat-4 satellite.
This was the in October 2008 of 12.13 cents US$ per culmination of a US$1.5bn investment share, the full year dividend for 2008 is programme in our latest generation of 5 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 5 27 3 09 17:08:36 27 3 09 17:08:36 Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review continued During 2008, we were approached by this key role for us.
He moved into Harbinger Capital Partners Harbinger, this position in contemplation of the in partnership with SkyTerra, with an previously announced departure of intention to make an offer for the Michael Butler, our President and Company following the satisfactory previous COO.
Michael will stay on until outcome of a regulatory review.
The April as our President.
We thank Michael Board said at the time, and it remains for his many years of service with Inmarsat equally relevant now, that it is highly and the tremendous contributions he confident in Inmarsats standalone has made.
This is demonstrated by the strong results we To coincide with this change and the delivered in 2008.
As a business, we upcoming plan to acquire Stratos, we maintained our momentum and focus realigned a variety of senior management on revenue growth in 2008 and are roles.
These changes of structure and roles comfortable with our standalone plans to were achieved completely with internal continue delivering value to shareholders.
We think this demonstrates the At the same time, we have agreed to depth of management at Inmarsat but maintain a constructive relationship with also our commitment to developing our Harbinger and SkyTerra throughout the staff and offering them more responsibility regulatory process in order to keep all as they develop.
options open for value creation for our shareholders.
However, we have received Strategy as of this date, no offer from Harbinger or As indicated earlier, we expect to SkyTerra and they are under no obligation exercise the call option to acquire CIP to make one.
We have received all regulatory clearances to do so.
The We are proud of our support for the transaction was funded in 2007 with no satellite industry and its wider community additional nancing now required for through the services we provide and completion.
We entered into this how these are deployed by us and transaction primarily to put ourselves through our partners to further social on a level playing eld with all of our causes around the world.
During the competitors in the satellite industry, year, the International Telecommunication who are allowed to control some Union championed the use of satellite element of their end customer communications for emergency distribution.
However, we remain operations to connect remote committed to a business model which communities around the world.
They primarily sells through our established also emphasised the key role played and growing network of Distribution by satellite communications in response Partners and Service Providers.
Our services successful collaborative partnership with deliver these requirements and we work all our partners is key for our collective closely with partners and customers success and we are committed to this.
who need support in times of natural or manmade disaster.
We will have new distribution agreements which will come into place from 15 April Perry Melton, who has been with Inmarsat 2009.
While the previous incentive for over 16 years, most recently as Vice arrangements for distributors will change President of Sales and Marketing, was from 1 May 2009, we believe our channel promoted to the role of Chief Operating will be motivated to achieve revenue officer COO as of 1 January 2009.
Perry growth and will be incentivised through has served in a variety of roles for Inmarsat appropriate arrangements in the new over the years and is a natural to step into distribution agreements.
6 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 6 27 3 09 17:08:38 27 3 09 17:08:38 l a n F i o n i t a a n r c e i a p l O 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements capability are from events in China Inmarsats Strategic responding to their earthquake disaster Perspectives and then the celebrations of the Olympics hosted in Beijing.
This spectrum efficiency Highly reliable trusted Highest reliability provides a better service to our partners for data transmission standard and customers, providing them with on the move improved business operations.
During Accelerate revenue growth in Bundled value voice core business and new services 2007, the satellite community was successful in inuencing the decision that Competitive reliable hand-held Maintain fixed cost base through there would continue to be uninterrupted service primarily wholesale approach and capex holiday use of C-band spectrum for the future, Premium services which is important for our own operations.
good value A professionally rewarding, challenging and enjoyable In 2008, one of our executives, Kengi To servemission critical Innovative services place to work Chen, received the Satellite Executive needs withmobile applications where of the Year Award from Via Satellite, a terrestrial networks are leading industry magazine, which not effective or are To deliver superior total Increase our position recognised his key role in achieving the non-existent shareholder returns by as the leading mobile C-band outcome as a success for the increasing revenue growth satellite services MSS on a largely fixed cost base provider satellite community as a whole.
Build sustainable cash returns Technology leader in MSS In reviewing spectrum opportunities, to shareholders Broad range of leading innovative part of the agreement we have with Prudent capex planning services SkyTerra relates to the role each of us Premium services would play in the future if there was a good value compelling business case to develop Ancillary Terrestrial Component ATC operations in North America.
We are well placed to progress this opportunity in the future.
In a similar vein, in order to maximise future opportunities available to us, we have submitted an application Even though our existing satellite Part of the planning for our next-generation under the European S-band Application constellations will carry us well beyond of satellites also requires us to consider Process for an award of S-band spectrum.
2020, we continue to plan ahead for our spectrum needs.
We operate in the We have selected Thales Alenia Space future satellite developments.
We are frequency band called L-band which and International Launch Services to the commercial partner for the European provides the most reliable service for support our application.
We are also Space Agencys Alphasat project, which mobile satellite terminals.
While we expect pursuing discussions to establish is a major European initiative.
The to gain access to additional L-band commercial partnerships which will be construction of the Alphasat satellite, spectrum with the launch of the Alphasat necessary to ensure that the returns from for which we are responsible, is satellite, maintaining our access to existing the investment in this project will generate proceeding well and we anticipate a spectrum is a key element of our business an acceptable return on capital, without launch date of 2012 2013.
The agreement we signed at the undue risk or uncertainties.
satellite will add capacity, service capability end of 2007 with SkyTerra and its afliates and network redundancy to further regarding the efficient re-use and enhance our business position.
Internal reorganisation of L-band spectrum in the planning is also underway to review the Americas has already been beneficial to scope and operation of our next our operations.
Satellite provide us with much greater opportunities planning and construction is a multi-year for increasing spectrum efficiency because programme and it is appropriate for us to of the use of narrow spot beams which start internal planning early to stay a step allow our SASs to focus power on specic ahead of our competitors.
Two examples of this 7 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 7 27 3 09 17:08:38 27 3 09 17:08:38 t I e n k d r a u s M t r y r e P m o s o i t t s i o u n C Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review continued We are coming off a terric year in 2008, competition, particularly from VSAT Review of operations despite the world economic downturn and hand-held operators, we believe which hit in the second half.
My review of that the steps we have taken will lessen operations will focus on the results of the impact.
Specic actions taken in Inmarsat Core, not the Inmarsat plc results, respect of the hand-held market include which include CIP.
the expansion of our satellite hand-held mobile service to a large area covering We continue to see strong data growth in Europe, Africa and the Middle East and our services, now representing more than our continued plans to globalise this 75% of revenue from our on-demand service, plus emphasising to users the services.
Global broadband services are excellent quality of our BGAN voice now a reality for customers on land, at sea service.
We continue to believe that our and in the air.
Following its launch in 2005, efficient and reliable service provides our broadband land service called great confidence to customers, especially Broadband Global Area Network BGAN when other satellite operators may face is now well established.
We have seen financial difficulty in these uncertain times.
excellent terminal growth across our users A number of competitor satellite eets are in Swift 64 for aeronautical users, Fleet old and the substantial capital investment for maritime users as well as BGAN for required for replacement constellations land mobile users.
A key performance will need to be funded in order for our indicator used for monitoring our business competitors to continue.
Customers reliability is the availability of our satellites.
making major investments in terminals I am pleased to confirm this again exceeds and operating systems need assurance Inmarsats new FleetBroadband 99.99%.
We are extremely proud of this that the service will be there for years to service has performed awlessly.
As the only provider of the come.
Inmarsat is best positioned to Global Maritime Distress and Safety System provide this.
Their global coverage and leading GMDSS to the maritime community, we technology make this Volvo Ocean continue to ensure mariners can rely on We have been innovative in the way Race the most connected in its 35 our service in times of need.
The quality of that we price certain services, with the year history.
our service was again publicly recognised introduction of geographic pricing in when we were announced the Best Satellite particular areas of the world and other Knut Frosted Carrier at the Telecom Asia Awards in 2008. customer targeted pricing programmes.
CEO, Volvo Ocean Race These are particularly attractive to large We are addressing competition in the users wishing to have greater exibility maritime market through the introduction on how they use our services.
Our new of innovative pricing packages.
We are distribution agreements will be in place also introducing a new maritime service, from 15 April.
We will benefit from an called FleetBroadband 150, which will be increased margin for the Company, available in mid-2009.
I will provide more reecting the fact that the new broadband detail of this new service in the maritime services use our own ground network and section.
While we continue to face infrastructure.
8 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 8 27 3 09 17:08:39 27 3 09 17:08:39 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements successful maritime eet evaluation trials will still continue to use our services, Maritime which took place during 2008 with ten despite the current economic climate.
These included 2008 global merchant ships, government As part of our long-term development vessels and luxury yachts.
The evaluations plan for evolving the FleetBroadband Maritime 54% were conducted in operational service and also in response to our Other 46% circumstances with the ships crews using partners and customers, we have agreed current and new business enhancing a service date of mid-2009 for a new Maritime revenue applications.
We received excellent maritime service, called FleetBroadband 2008 feedback from users, which support the 150.
This will provide voice, IP data and strong take-up of the service.
As a result, SMS services to smaller vessels, such as Data 68% we were delighted our FleetBroadband leisure craft and shing vessels.
The new Voice 32% service was recognised as the winner of service brings the benets of our optimised the prestigious Lloyds List Award for and proven IP network onto a low cost While challenged by global economic Innovation 2008. platform while maintaining our high conditions, the maritime sector continues service standards.
This directly addresses to grow due to the strength of the new significant support for the the growing communications needs of data and voice services we have launched FleetBroadband service has come in the smaller vessel customer for email and over the last two years.
Revenues during the strong endorsement by A. P. Mllerinternet access.
We are working with two 2008 from the maritime sector were Maersk with their order to retrot 150 manufacturers to bring this new service US$332.5m, an increase of US$22.2m or of their vessels, with the possibility of to market in 2009.
Of this, data increasing this number to 300 vessels.
revenues were almost 70%, growing 9.7% We believe this is the largest During 2008, and into 2009, we are the compared to 2007.
We have seen a return communications retrot in the history ofcial provider of satellite communications to growth of voice revenues through of maritime satellite communications.
for the Round-the-World Volvo Ocean increased usage of our Fleet voice service Race.
This sponsorship illustrates the and also the FleetPhone.
This has been The greater bandwidth and functionality reliability of Inmarsat services in the achieved through pricing stability and of FleetBroadband allows ship operators most challenging conditions imaginable continued success with low cost voice to invest in new operating procedures to for the world to see.
Competitors face services aimed at ships crews and smaller reduce their on-board costs.
Even during the harshest of environments and vessels.
This increasing trend in the use of these difficult economic times where there reliable communications equipment data services is greatly reective of the are reports of reduced new ship build is an absolute requirement.
Each of general trend we have seen of ship or vessels anchored in harbour because the competitors is equipped with a operators seeing the potential for the use freight costs have been reduced, the cost FleetBroadband 500 terminal, plus a of data for operational efficiency gains.
of satellite communications is largely xed Fleet 33 and an Inmarsat C. Crews and a very small element of overall vessel can send high denition video back In November 2007, we launched running costs.
We believe communications to the Race Headquarters, download FleetBroadband, and we are delighted will be used regardless of the freight rates weather maps, contact friends and with its performance to date.
This leads us to believe that family and importantly know that they our fastest growing service and we now as ship operators understand how have access to the GMDSS system if have over 1,500 active terminals.
Inmarsat services can provide efficiency disaster strikes.
FleetBroadband FleetBroadband has gained rapid market and save costs in supporting the different performance has been described by acceptance and this is in part due to the applications required on board, they the Race organisers as awless.
9 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 9 27 3 09 17:08:40 27 3 09 17:08:40 Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review continued Land mobile growth for our BGAN services.
This was We have several services which provide demonstrated quickly after the award of voice capabilities Mini M, IsatPhone and MSS revenue the licence application with the decision BGAN.
We have seen growth in the use of 2008 to use our BGAN service for the Brazilian the BGAN voice service and we are seeing elections.
use of our hand-held satellite phone in Land 23% Europe, Africa and the Middle East, Other 77% At the end of December 2008, we although our traditional Mini M service, completed the planned closure of our due to terminal size, has continued to Land revenue R-BGAN service which was a regional data be affected by competition from other 2008 only service for Europe, the Middle East, operators.
We expect to counter this Africa and parts of Asia.
In anticipation of competition through greater awareness Data 92% the end of this service, our partners led a and increasing usage of BGAN voice and Voice 8% successful programme of migration to our our existing hand-held offering.
BGAN is more Competition is most intense in our land efficient in terms of spectrum usage on We will also be launching a global mobile sector, but our innovation in highour satellites providing opportunities for satellite hand-held phone service.
This speed data, which is highly portable, has further service growth.
We therefore is an important new market for the led the industry and has driven significant encourage migration from our older Company and we want to make sure that growth for us.
In 2008, revenues from the services to BGAN as it enhances our ability we have a mobile hand-set which ts the land mobile sector were US$141.8m, to utilise our spectrum.
purpose and form factor for customers.
an increase of 12.7% compared to 2007.
Following a review of the programme and Through increased usage of our BGAN During the year, we were delighted when engagement of a new hand-set developer, service, data revenues increased to the Mobile Satellite Users Association we are targeting the second quarter US$130.5m, representing 92% of total in the US presented its prestigious of 2010 for the availability of the new land mobile revenues.
innovation award to two of our employees hand-set which will enable global service.
for their work in developing our BGAN When we introduce the global service, BGAN subscribers have increased by 75% service, which has transformed mobile we are positioned to take an immediate from 2007 with over 11,800 new terminals broadband communications.
We regularly share in this established market that we activated.
The average revenue per unit look at how we can improve our service have not participated in to date.
With ARPU for our BGAN service is around offering to enhance the customers our established brand, reputation US$250, the same level as 2007. experience.
An example of this is a new for quality and reliability, competitive higher streaming speed for BGAN users prices and network of global distribution Successful licence applications by the particularly targeting media and partners, we will play a significant role Company during the year in Brazil and governmental customers, which will be in this US$350m market.
Canada resulted in new geographical available during 2009.
The new minimum markets opening for our distributors.
guaranteed streaming rate of 384kbps will These are key strategic areas which we offer near broadcast quality video and will believe our partners can penetrate and further establish BGAN as a compelling develop opportunities for revenue global proposition that major broadcasters choose for live reporting.
10 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 10 27 3 09 17:08:40 27 3 09 17:08:40 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Aeronautical electronic ight bag applications.
As well phones and other communications devices as strong use of Swift 64, the population such as PDAs including Blackberrys.
MSS revenue of aircraft using our Classic Aero services Aeromobile recently announced that 2008 continued to grow.
Emirates, at the end of December 2008, had its 100,000th passenger connected Aero 10% Applications using our SwiftBroadband to its in-ight GSM service.
OnAir has Other 90% service, which offers IP-based services recently rolled out commercial use on using the BGAN technology, have started Wataniya Airlines, based in Kuwait, and Aeronautical revenue to be rolled out by airlines.
OnAir also has ongoing trials 2008 of 2008, we had type-approved 12 with TAP and BMI, and Aeromobile is SwiftBroadband antenna and avionic conducting trials with Malaysian Airlines.
Data 95% combinations from several different We are excited about how SwiftBroadband Voice 5% manufacturers.
Certication of avionics will be adopted within the aeronautical on aircraft by aviation authorities is industry and look forward to significant Demand for communications from required before equipment is certied potential growth in this market in the aircraft is growing dramatically.
2008 saw as being air-worthy and can be installed years ahead.
a continued trend of increased revenue on planes, which adds time before the contribution from the aeronautical sector equipment can be used by airlines.
of US$64.4m compared to US$44.3m in During the year, the European regulatory 2007.
This represents 10.4% of Inmarsat environment changed to support Core MSS revenues.
We were delighted the use of mobile phones and laptop to be announced as a category winner of a computers on planes.
During 2008, Network Middle East Innovation Award.
the European Aviation Safety Agency This was in recognition of our ongoing granted certication to Airbus to t out development of aeronautical services, its aircraft to allow passengers to make including the network infrastructure for voice calls and send and receive text pioneering GSM in the Sky solutions and messages via our SwiftBroadband service.
There are on-going eet roll-outs of SwiftBroadband expected during 2009.
During 2008, we announced that there The avionics manufacturers are working were more than 3,500 channels on aircraft with the aircraft manufacturers to ensure worldwide using our Swift 64 service.
that the lead time from availability of This was an increase of more than 1,000 systems to certication is minimised channels in less than a year and supports as far as possible.
the view that Swift 64 continues to be the standard for in-ight connectivity.
We saw Our partners, Aeromobile and OnAir, airlines deploying Swift 64 for in-ight are continuing to see strong interest GSM passenger connectivity and from airlines in the in-ight use of mobile 11 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
pdf 11 27 3 09 17:08:40 27 3 09 17:08:40 Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review continued Government sector the year across all three sectors of land During the year, we have continued to mobile, maritime and aeronautical.
We work closely with governments across the have seen some customers move to our world, to support their civilian and military lease services which provides a greater applications.
As government usage of our level of revenue certainty for Inmarsat services occurs in all our revenue sectors, and predictable costs for them.
including leasing, we do not break out these revenues separately.
Outlook As we reect on 2008, we experienced In a crisis situation, time is of the essence.
another outstanding year for the An early, co-ordinated response is the key Company, with record revenues.
The to minimising the impact of any disaster.
By successful launch of the third Inmarsat-4 relying on our satellite network, emergency satellite and the globalisation of our first responders can access the information broadband service across our land mobile, they need to act effectively, even if all maritime and aeronautical sectors bring terrestrial communications are down or increased opportunities for new market unavailable.
During 2008, we were used by and geographical developments.
Also first responders and government ofcials in parts of the strategically important readiness for the hurricanes which struck Pacic region, including Japan and parts the US during the year.
We also worked of Australia, will experience our family closely with our Chinese partner, MCN, of mobile broadband services for the to aid their support of the Chinese first time.
government following the earthquake in the province of Sichuan.
We will look at opportunities to develop existing revenue streams or enter new Our BGAN service meets the most business areas if they are revenue demanding military operational enhancing and complementary to our requirements for mobile voice and existing business.
However, we are also broadband data on the move.
Military mindful of the uncertain economic operations require seamless, reliable and outlook.
We will carefully monitor trafc secure communications between endtrends throughout the year and intend users and their commanders and allies.
to preserve our strong balance sheet Inmarsat is a trusted provider working and cash ow.
closely with our distributors to meet the rigorous requirements of a myriad of As we expect to exercise the call option international military government users, to acquire Stratos in April 2009, it will on land, at sea and in the air.
In addition be imperative for us to ensure that the to providing important welfare businesses operate efficiently together.
communications for troops away from We want to grow the revenues from our home, our Inmarsat-4 satellites deliver an existing distributors, alongside the IP architecture that supports Command contribution from Stratos.
and Control Information Systems and critical situation awareness applications.
The support of our employees, A key feature of any military communication distribution partners, service providers is information assurance.
Our BGAN and manufacturers enabled us to make service is compatible with legacy great achievements in 2008.
We are very circuit-switched encryption devices, as appreciative of their contribution to well as the packet-switched devices that Inmarsats success.
We look forward to meet emerging IP encryption standards.
their on-going support and participation in the business.
Our lease services provide government users with assured access or dedicated Turning to 2009, we will continue to channels across geographies.
These target to grow revenues but we will services can be dedicated to a single user maintain a prudent outlook regarding or shared amongst a closed user group.
This provides additional assurance that We will continue to develop our portfolio capacity and access will be available of services both geographically and during contingencies and crises.
functionally, and by doing so, maintain our leadership in mobile satellite Leasing services and enhance value for our Revenues from leasing in 2008 were shareholders.
We were successful with new leases being signed during 12 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
