OVERVIEW Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review 3 Chief Executives review BUSINESS SUMMARY During 2008 In the year, we continued to grow sales, profits and revenue per available room we witnessed RevPAR the industrys main performance measure which rose again, up unprecedented 0.9 per cent globally.
Throughout the year, we saw RevPAR outperformance in all events in the world our key markets, but in line with the industry we experienced a sharp downturn in the fourth quarter when our RevPAR declined 6.5 per cent.
In spite of a number of actions to prepare the business for the tougher environment ahead.
this, it was a good Sadly this has involved some redundancies across the Group.
We ACCELERATED ROOMS GROWTH benefited from our We opened a record 430 hotels during 2008, including 115 hotels in the fourth strategy to focus quarter, when the economic conditions had worsened significantly.
on franchising and We were pleased to beat our target to add 50,000-60,000 net rooms within three managing hotels years and in the end we added more than 82,000 rooms to the system a great and beat our three achievement.
We signed 693 hotels, 98,886 rooms, into our forward development pipeline during the year.
More than 25,000 of these rooms were signed in the year net rooms fourth quarter, demonstrating the continuing appetite that owners and guests growth target by have for our brands all around the world.
At the same time, we continued to over 35 per cent.
focus on improving quality and we removed 193 hotels from our system.
Overall, we grew the number of rooms in our system by 6 per cent on a net basis.
BRAND PERFORMANCE The $1 billion relaunch of the Holiday Inn family of brands is progressing well.
Almost 300 hotels had been relaunched by the end of 2008 and feedback from guests and owners has been encouraging.
The improvements will deliver a higher quality guest experience and stronger returns for hotel owners.
In September 2008, we entered the timeshare market through an exclusive licensing and marketing agreement, launching our Holiday Inn Club Vacations brand.
We successfully continued the expansion of our brands around the world with the launch of Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo outside our Americas region.
ADVANTAGES OF SCALE With almost 620,000 rooms worldwide, we can deploy our significant scale to benefit both ourselves and our hotel owners.
Our reservations channels now bring in $7.6 billion of room revenues and our Priority Club Rewards members contribute $5.9 billion.
We now directly generate around 60 per cent of room nights at our hotels through our system.
This year we started several projects to make more of our scale, to maximise efficiencies and drive cost savings.
These include establishing a Group procurement team and consolidating several accounting processes to overseas locations.
The savings will continue in 2009 and we have committed to keeping our costs below 2008 levels.
The trading environment became significantly tougher throughout 2008 and there is no doubt 2009 will be very challenging, but ours is a resilient business and our strategy remains the right one.
Over the last few years, we have built confidence and momentum in the business and forged an even stronger bond with our community of outstanding owners with whom we operate our hotel system.
Together we are all focused on a common goal, to create Great Hotels Guests Love and despite the poor short-term outlook, we remain confident we can deliver our ambition.
Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Before exceptional items.
