Chief Executive Officers statement 4 International Power Annual Report 2008 Chief Executive Officers statement We have a strong balance sheet with good free cash flow and liquidity, and our international spread across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be a major strength.
2008 was certainly an unprecedented year across Regional reviews all markets, as the severity of the credit and banking The regional reviews, on pages 36 to 51, give crisis, and its dramatic impact on the global you an in-depth analysis of the business, but let me economy, really started to become apparent.
give you an overview of some of the highlights and Clearly, no sector or company is immune from these key issues.
wider market conditions, but electricity remains a In North America, our Profit From Operations domestic, industrial, and commercial necessity.
Our PFO increased, principally through an improved geographic spread across North America, Europe, performance from our gas and coal-fired plants in the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be Texas.
Hays benefited from a higher achieved spark a major strength, ensuring no over-concentration spread and load factor, as a result of higher demand of risk in any one market and allowing us to focus our and transmission constraints while Coleto Creek growth initiatives where we see the most potential.
operated at a significantly higher load factor of 90% In these market conditions, strong free cash flow compared to 75% in 2007.
We also successfully generation, good liquidity, and an absence of major concluded the acquisition of four peaking plants near-term refinancings are all very good indicators in the north eastern and mid western US markets of financial position, and I am pleased to report that PJM and MISO regions that we have targeted for we score well on all these criteria.
These are high quality, modern, and free cash flow after maintenance capital efficient plants which have been quickly integrated expenditure, interest, and tax of 513 million in into our US portfolio.
Forward power prices have 2008, retained good liquidity at the corporate reduced principally on the back of lower oil and centre, have minimal project refinancings in 2009, gas prices, and on expectations of lower demand and the vast majority of our debt is non-recourse growth.
Forward margins in the power market do to the parent company.
not yet reflect the strong fundamentals across our major US merchant markets, and for this reason, we are relatively lightly forward contracted for 2009.
Our contracted assets in the region continue to perform well.
Our European portfolio performed well during 2008, particularly in the UK where our gas-fired and pumped storage assets delivered excellent results, which helped to offset the extended outage at our Rugeley coal-fired plant.
The fitting of Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD at Rugeley will continue into 2009, and will ensure a longer life for this important asset.
Overall, our UK portfolio is very well positioned to benefit from the attractive fundamentals of this market, and we have forward contracted output from selected plants for 2009 where we have seen particular value.
We acquired a further 40% of the Turbogs 1,008MW Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT plant in Portugal during the year, and this plant continued to perform well, contributing to a strong performance from our long-term contracted assets across the region.
Similarly, our European wind portfolio of 1,179MW operated well, although wind levels and resulting load factors were lower than long-term averages.
Business overview 5 At ISAB, where there was a major incident in Delivering maximum value October, one of the two units returned to service Operational excellence is core to our ability to in mid December, with the second one expected deliver maximum value, and although we had some to be back online in the middle of 2010.
The Czech unplanned outages in 2008 Rugeley and ISAB in Republic power and district heating businesses particular we always strive to learn the maximum had another excellent year, improving on a very possible from these events to ensure that we strong 2007 performance.
On the growth front, maintain the highest standards of plant safety construction of the 830MW Elecgas CCGT plant and operations.
We have a number of initiatives in Portugal is making good progress and we underway to constantly drive improved operational were very pleased to announce the development performance across the portfolio.
and successful financing of the 420MW T-Power Our approach to environmental management project in Belgium, in challenging financial market has three major building blocks improved conditions, demonstrating the availability of environmental performance at our existing assets, non-recourse finance for high quality projects.
the building of high efficiency plants where we The Middle East is a good example of a market develop greenfield growth opportunities, and the that continues to grow strongly despite the wider expansion of our significant renewables portfolio.
The market is driven by strong Examples include the installation of FGD equipment fundamentals, even in a lower oil price environment, in the UK and Portugal, the development of lower and we continue to see a range of near and emission technology for brown coal generation in longer-term growth opportunities that reflect the Australia, incorporation of high efficiency turbines expansion and diversification of the economies in in our new-build projects in the Middle East, which we operate.
Our existing portfolio continues Portugal, and Belgium, and the further to operate well with consistently high availability development of our European onshore wind factors.
We have established a strong presence portfolio.
All these initiatives make very sound in this important market and we are focused on environmental and commercial sense.
growing and adding value for the long-term, The growth and development of our business with the construction of the Fujairah F2 plant would not be possible without a committed team 2,000MW and 130MIGD in the UAE on schedule.
of employees, and I am always impressed by the Australia had a much improved performance in enthusiasm displayed by our teams around the 2008, driven by better overall plant availability world.
I would like to thank all our employees and by improved achieved market prices.
The for their contribution during 2008. major issue for the power sector in Australia is As outlined in the Chairmans statement, it is the planned introduction of a Carbon Pollution likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower Reduction Scheme CPRS, in this market where than in 2008.
However our assets are well placed coal a relatively high emitter of carbon dioxide to capture value, from both market recovery represents the dominant share some 85% of total and short-term pricing volatility.
Our focus is on power generation.
A government White Paper was maintaining a strong balance sheet with good free published in December, followed by draft legislation cash flow and liquidity, together with achieving the in March 2009, and this provided some insight into highest operational standards across our portfolio.
the proposed scheme, but many more details need Growth remains on our agenda, but we will to be clarified before the full impact on our portfolio continue to use our capital very selectively and can be properly evaluated.
The scheme is still carefully in light of the constrained capital planned for implementation in mid 2010, and the markets.
Our regional spread and market draft terms include assistance for brown coal-fired knowledge are key advantages, and enable us generation which is the cornerstone of our to allocate capital where we see the best returns.
Our Asian portfolio comprises long-term contracted assets, where high plant availability is the key driver of value.
We continue to deliver high operational standards, and therefore profitability has been consistently good.
Demand for power Philip Cox continues to be strong, and is reflected in the Chief Executive Officer growth opportunities across the region, and in Indonesia in particular.
The planned expansion of our plant at Paiton in Indonesia, where we are seeking to add a further 815MW by 2012, is an excellent example of this growth.
Payments from our government owned offtaker in Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority were delayed in 2008, as its cash flow was negatively impacted by the high price of oil.
Various measures, including International Monetary Fund IMF assistance, give us confidence that this issue will be satisfactorily resolved.
We continue to look carefully at selected new markets in this region, with Vietnam a clear focus, given its high growth rate and its desire to attract inward investment in the power sector.
