23 Annual Report 2008 23 Chief Operating Officers Review We decided to establish shared service centres in Intertek as One Intertek as One countries where we have a large presence, The main purpose of our Intertek as One integrated services, combining business support functions such as programme is to promote cross-divisional shared resources, accounting, procurement, human resources and integration and co-operation to ensure that IT across the divisions, to better improve the quality improved our customers have access to the complete range and delivery of these functions to the business and communication.
of Group services and to allow us to pursue best support our growth.
opportunities for sharing of resources.
In order to effect the desired changes without In order to facilitate cross-divisional integration and disrupting our business and service to clients we co-operation, we have nominated country managers decided to concentrate initially on developing a in 16 of the countries in which we operate, covering shared service centre covering the USA and Canada.
80% of the Groups revenue for 2008.
Their Our large presence in North America has the greatest responsibility is to support and lead cross-divisional potential for cost saving synergies.
This project is selling and implement back office support shared currently underway and is expected to be completed service initiatives.
The intention is that by mid during 2009.
Once the North American shared 2009 this will increase to more than 20 countries, service centre has been successfully established, accounting for over 95% of the Groups revenue.
the project blueprint will be used to develop shared Presenting a single face to our customers is essential service centres as appropriate elsewhere.
to achieve market penetration and drive crossCommunication is a vital part of the Intertek as One divisional sales.
By working together and integrating initiative.
Regular global, regional and local meetings our services we are able to provide a complete were held during the year to identify, support and package of services seamlessly to our customers.
prioritise initiatives relevant to each country.
Regular We are developing customer management systems progress reports are posted on the Group intranet to allow our divisions to share customer profiles so that all employees are aware of the success of and contact details.
This facilitates business various projects and can see the tangible benefits development through co-ordinated marketing that are starting to accrue.
campaigns and allows us to provide a full range of services to our clients.
In the current economic environment, it is even more important that we maximize our business One of the fundamental aims of the Intertek as One opportunities whilst reducing our overheads and programme is to position Intertek to sustain high our Intertek as One programme will help us to levels of growth without corresponding increases achieve this.
During 2008, we undertook an in-depth review to consider how we might standardize and streamline our processes to improve Mark Loughead Chief Operating Officer efficiency and provide a platform for future growth.
Mark Loughead Chief Operating Officer 28653 pp001-027.
