com Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review Our commitment to supporting and adding value to our customers by improving their products and processes and reducing their costs drives everything we do.
Our commitment Customers We deliver innovative solutions to our customers By organising ourselves along industry lines we and guide them through the complex regulations have developed in-depth knowledge of our chosen and standards that apply to their products.
This enables us to understand our facilitate our customers success in the global customers businesses, anticipate their current and marketplace and, most importantly, we provide our future needs and deliver seamless customer service.
Our knowledge of We locate our offices and laboratories near our quality-enhancing and procurement procedures clients so we can maintain a close relationship and along their value chain, together with our insight of provide a local contact point through which they can existing and forthcoming regulations worldwide, access our global network of facilities and expertise.
allow our clients to reduce their product In the current economic climate, reducing nondevelopment time cycle and ensure that their productive overheads is key for most businesses.
By leveraging our local services allow our clients to reduce their dependency service and global network, we enable our on in-house testing, freeing up valuable resources to customers to reduce overhead costs and dedicate allocate to their core services by outsourcing this to their primary energies to their core business Intertek.
As a result, clients can speed up the activities.
We offer comprehensive programmes and time-to-market of their products and reduce costs.
services which draw on our industry-specific Our people knowledge and technical expertise.
Our strategy is to attract, retain and motivate Progress towards delivering our strategy talented people with the expertise and experience Our excellent results for 2008 demonstrate the to provide our clients with a service that surpasses effectiveness of our growth strategy.
Our focus on customer service is achieved by focusing on six key aspects of our development through training and the strength business: of our collective leadership, combined with a Customers: stimulating work environment, are the principal Our people: drivers which motivate our people to excel at their Business development: work on behalf of all clients.
Processes: Financial management: Risk management.
indd 6 6 3 09 00:16:28 07 Annual Report 2008 07 Our in-depth knowledge of the industries in which We plan ahead to ensure we have the right profiles we operate enables us to understand future of talent flowing through to shape and lead the developments and design services to meet changing evolution of our markets and services.
For example, in 2008 we enhances retention, with opportunities for career expanded our photovoltaic capabilities to support progression across all countries and areas of growth in the alternative energy industry and we specialism.
have extended our service offering for customers We continue our distinctive strategy of developing in the food industry.
and promoting people locally as they have the best Processes understanding of the local market and customers, Internally, we continuously review and streamline whilst continuing to give opportunities for the most our core processes to improve customer service and talented to advance into international management.
Our processes and procedures are Through our many Intertek as One initiatives we subject to regular audits from our customers and emphasise the need to join together, maintaining regulatory bodies to ensure that we meet required our agility to move people quickly to where they are standards.
We strive to achieve operational of greatest impact for the benefit of our customers excellence in all our facilities.
Each division measures and our business.
a variety of operational performance indicators that Business development are appropriate to their business, such as test Our industry-focused approach also drives our turnaround times, number of certifications issued, business and corporate development strategy.
Our utilisation statistics, order backlog and order aim is to be a leader in our core service industries conversion amongst others.
Our global Intertek and we actively seek businesses to acquire that as One initiative ensures that different parts of our complement or extend our service offering to business communicate and co-operate with each customers in our chosen sectors.
We integrate the other to ensure our customers receive a seamless expertise and services in acquired businesses with service.
We are also planning to combine our back our existing services and offer these to our office functions within countries to improve customers globally.
In 2008 we acquired 14 efficiency and reduce overhead costs.
businesses in nine countries across a variety of Financial management industry sectors.
For example, in 2008 we acquired We aim to manage our business responsibly to Hi-Cad Technical Services Ltd which provides meet the needs of all our stakeholders.
Our strategy specialist 3D data capture and measurement is to generate profitable growth both organically services, primarily to customers in the UK and the and through acquisitions and to maintain a sound USA in the oil and petroleum industries.
We aim to secure long-term, acquired CML Biotech Ltd which specialises in the recurring revenue from new and existing clients.
measurement and management of bacteria in the We have many key financial performance indicators upstream oil and gas industries.
Both acquisitions such as top line revenue growth and operating strategically extend the breadth of our service margin growth which we measure on a monthly offering to our clients in the energy industries.
basis for each division and industry sector.
Further details are provided in the Financial Review starting on page 24.
Our business focus Customers Our people Business development Processes Financial management Risk management 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review Intertek is a cash generative business and our focus Our close relationship with our customers and the is on managing capital expenditure, working capital, markets in which they operate mean that we are tax and interest costs.
Our strategy is to ensure that aware of the issues facing many industries and can the cash we generate is used efficiently for take appropriate and timely action.
We monitor acquisitions, organic investment and returning funds underperforming businesses closely and where we to our shareholders, adding to their value creation.
see revenue growth is declining we take action to We continually monitor our cash position and the adjust our cost base to maintain our margin.
location of our cash balances to ensure that The current turmoil in the financial markets and the sufficient cash can be remitted into the UK to fund prospects of a global recession have made it more our dividend payments to shareholders.
During difficult and expensive to obtain debt financing.
2008 we added 75.0m to our committed We will closely monitor the level of capital in the borrowing facilities and raised a further US$200.0m business and adjust it as necessary to meet by way of two senior note issues to ensure that we requirements.
have sufficient funds available to continue investing in our business and making acquisitions.
At Creating value 31 December 2008, the Group had undrawn We will face many challenges in the current committed borrowing facilities of 97.8m which economic environment but I am confident that the mature in December 2011, and cash of 113.3m.
services we provide, our strategy and the dedication of our people will continue to drive demand for our Risk management services, add value for our customers and create An important part of our growth strategy is to value for our shareholders.
clearly identify risks to the achievement of our ambitions and to successfully address them.
We continuously improve our risk assessment matrix Wolfhart Hauser with a view to improving our risk assessment and reporting framework to ensure that our internal Chief Executive Officer audit work continues to focus on the most appropriate areas.
Our strategy Add value to clients Offer bundled services Drive outsourcing Focus on selected industry sectors Support global trade 28653 pp001-027.
