16 Business review Chief Executives statement Results for 2008 financial year Revenue for the year was 110.1 million, an increase of 11% over last year 2007: 99.1 million and an improvement in like-for-like revenues of 13%.
Growth in revenue was largely driven by yield improvement with more sales in higher priced products, a reduction in marginal business activity, price increases and favourable currency movements all contributing to the improvement.
The gross margin has remained at 50% re ecting the Groups biennial pattern of events.
Headline pre-tax pro t of 37.1 million was an absolute improvement on last years result of 35.3 million, and was underpinned by a 16% improvement in like-for-like gures.
This result was achieved after making a 3.3 million charge against derivative currency hedges which o set much of the bene cial e ect of exchange rate movement on the Groups reported revenues for the year.
The like-for-like increase in headline pro ts of circa 5.0 million was largely driven by growth in higher margin products.
The business activity has again provided strong cash ow in the year.
Headline pro t before tax of 37.1 million has translated to an operational cash ow gure of The Group has a strong 52.9 million.
The Group applied 13.5 million of cash to the acquisition of businesses and 15.9 million to share business model and buy backs including ESOT purchases over the course of the year.
Net cash balances of 26.7 million at the beginning its strategy is to actively of the year rose to 29.1 million at 30 September 2008. expand the range and This strong set of financial results for the year was diversity of product achieved despite the early impact of the global financial downturn a ecting some of our markets and serves to to our international demonstrate the resilience of strong market positions in economies showing good domestic growth.
Trading and operating performance in 2008 ITEs revenue growth has again been strong in its major sectors especially construction, oil and gas and travel.
Across its principal sectors ITE experienced resilience in its major international brands and was active in thinning out low margin activity in its portfolio.
There were five new launches in the construction sector and like-for-like revenue growth from this sector was 17% from a 4% volume growth.
In the Oil and Gas sector there were two new launches in Turkmenistan and a highly Russell Taylor successful sales performance on World Petroleum Congress Chief Executive O cer 2008.
The cancellation of an event in Algeria improved pro ts but dampened revenue and yield growth.
Like-forlike revenue growth in the oil and gas sector was 4% from a marginally smaller volume base.
In the Travel and Leisure sector there was one new launch in Kazakhstan and an 11% revenue growth earned from similar sales volumes.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 17 In the 2008 financial year the Group ran 159 exhibitions For other events, trading remained strong with good 2007: 148 including 15 new launches 2007: 17. demand from the international customers of our major events being a recurring feature.
In St Petersburg there The details of our exhibitions and conferences business has been no marked change in the trading environment excluding publishing are: and the exhibition industry still awaits a fide nitive statement on future exhibition venues.
ITE has this year Sq metres Gross Average sold Revenue pro t yield established a third Russian o ce through the acquisition 2 000s m m per m of Siberian Fairs in Novosibirsk which since its acquisition 2007 All events 455 97 49 has traded in line with managements expectations.
There Non annual 23 6 4 is good interest from our international exhibitor base in 2007 Annually recurring 432 91 45 210 the Novosibirsk exhibitions, but development of a new Acquisitions 19 2 1 venue is key to the future growth of the business.
There Growth 2 12 8 are presently two potential venue projects in varying 2008 Annually recurring 449 105 54 234 stages of advancement, and planned for 2010.
Non annual 51 3 1 2008 All events 500 108 55 Central Asia & Caucasus Overall, revenues increased by 22% in Central Asia & The Groups like-for-like volume sales for the year were Caucasus from a volume sales increase of 6%.
The Groups a ected by the cancellation of some unpro table events most notable impact from the current financial crisis was 2 circa 7,000 m and were marginally less than last year.
the downturn in the Kazakhstan property market, which in However, a combination of sales mix, price increases turn led to the reduction in size of the Autumn construction and favourable currency movements yielded a net 13% event, KazBuild.
The Kazakhstan economy has a relatively increase in like-for-like revenues.
Approximately half high exposure to foreign debt and bank lending had of the improvement in revenues arose from bene cial supported a property and construction boom over recent currency movements.
years, which was an early victim of the international liquidity crisis.
Russia Russia has enjoyed real growth in Gross Domestic Product In Azerbaijan the economy is still enjoying growth in Gross of 7-8% for the last two years, and trading conditions in the Domestic Product of more than 13% and with a relatively year to 30 September 2008 were not signi cantly a ected low exposure to foreign debt there has been no marked by the worlds financial crisis or by the withdrawal of change in market conditions since last year.
ITEs business foreign investment from Russia.
Like-for-like revenue performance was strong with revenues from the Baku growth from exhibitions and events in Russia was 12% o ce increasing by over 20% year-on-year.
Construction 2 2 from total space sold of 247,000m 2007: 250,000m.
2 has now started on a new 28,000m venue in Baku and ITE are in advanced discussions to be an anchor tenant for the International quality venue space in Moscow is now new venue.
Our other Central Asian market is Uzbekistan 2 circa 300,000m, which is su cient for the current size where again exposure to foreign debt as a proportion of of the Moscow exhibition business though the xture list Gross Domestic Product has been relatively low and real remains congested at peak times.
The biggest in uence economic growth remains forecast to be circa 7% for next on the Moscow result is always the size and pricing of year.
The recently constructed new pavilion at the venue the construction event, MosBuild.
Although volume has supported good revenue growth this year to 2.8m, growth this year su ered from a date clash with another a 50% increase in like-for-like revenues.
international event which reduced overall growth to 3%, pricing, discount control and bene cial currency movement supported good revenue improvement.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 18 Business review Chief Executives statement continued Eastern & Southern Europe Strategy In Eastern & Southern Europe like-for-like volume sales ITEs primary business objectives remain: growth was 2% yielding revenue growth of 12%.
Our two The creation of sustainable growth in headline earnings main markets are in Ukraine and Turkey.
Both countries are per share: and exposed to high levels of foreign debt relative to the size of The creation and maintenance of sustainable market their economy and both have had political uncertainty in the leadership in its markets.
Encouragingly in both Turkey and Ukraine our o ces have enjoyed good demand for their exhibition products ITEs strategy for achieving its objective is based on over the last twelve months.
The new financial year has enhancing its existing business strengths and gaining started well in both countries with good bookings to date incremental synergy through expansion.
ITE aims to but volatility in their domestic currencies is expected to extend its existing business model in its current markets make domestic sales more challenging in the future.
by diversifying its exhibition portfolio, but also to leverage its strengths both through expansion of its UK & Western Europe international sales network and of its product base to Modas performance in the last financial year has been other similar markets.
excellent, maintaining a good financial result in di cult market conditions.
In the UK our fashion business is a ected The business strengths which ITE aims to build upon are: by the slowdown in the UK retail market, but the ability to o er a complete marketing solution across publishing and International sales network exhibitions brings added value to our customers.
ITE has o ces making sales in territories where historic and political trading relationships between exporters and the Russian and CIS economies have long existed.
ITEs o ces in Turkey and Western Europe account for circa 50% of its sales into its core Russian and CIS exhibition products.
There are also strong trading links between the Russian and CIS states which ITE is able to access through its local o ce infrastructure.
Key performance indicators: The key performance indicators ITE uses to measure progress against its strategic objective, and its performance in this financial year, are set out below: To increase revenues from existing ITEs revenues from existing like-for-like products exhibition portfolio has increased by 13% in the year.
To increase the annually recurring volume The annually recurring base metres of our exhibition 2 base of our exhibition portfolio business as at 1 October 2007 was 430,000m.
Acquisitions and growth have increased this to 2 490,000m as at 1 October 2008.
To make incremental bolt on acquisitions ITE has made four acquisitions in the year to in support of objectives supplement our product o ering.
S tex, a security exhibition in St Petersburg, Interstroyexpo, a construction event in St Petersburg, Siberian Fairs in Novosibirsk, a regional o ce with 30 events in Siberia and Bubble, a childrenswear event in London.
Secure forward venue rights for signi cant In Moscow ITE has an agreement in principle to exhibitions extend to 2011 the pricing and commitment for its main venue.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 19 ITE has this year expanded its international sales network Venue relationships to re ect new trading relationships and to improve its ITEs venue relationships are key to its business model, performance in countries where in the past agents have providing continuity, theme protection and growth for our been used to make its sales.
ITEs Beijing o ce is a growing key events.
source of sales, accounting for 3% of sales into the core markets this year.
Nascent sales o ces have been opened ITE has continued to extend its working relationships recently in Spain, Malaysia and Dubai.
These new sales with its principal venues in the year.
In Kazakhstan ITE o ces will be more e ective than the existing agency has reached agreement with Atakent to support the structure in delivering sales across the complete range construction of a new pavilion that will double the of ITEs products and in focusing on the right quality of currently available international quality exhibition space 2 exhibitors and content for our events.
Construction is expected to be completed by the end of 2010.
ITE is also in discussions 2 Market leading events to support the development of a 28,000m venue ITE already has market leading exhibitions and conferences in Baku, Azerbaijan which is due to complete by 2010. in its portfolio of events.
However, there are industry In Novosibirsk ITE is in discussion with potential developers sectors where ITE does not yet have a strong enough of new exhibition space in the city.
product in the market place.
ITE is well positioned to build or acquire strong events in new sectors by using its local sales force, its international sales network and its good Russell Taylor venue relationships.
This year ITE acquired S tex, a Chief Executive O cer 2 3,000m security event in St Petersburg: with the support 1 December 2008 of ITEs existing international sales teams it produced growth of over 50% in its first year of ownership.
In April, ITE announced the acquisition of Interstroyexpo, the leading St Petersburg construction event.
Again the Group is able to bring its international sales forces to focus on the new event, which will next take place in April 2009.
Local presence ITE has well established o ces in the markets where it holds its exhibitions.
The knowledge, experience and contacts of the sta built up over the last 15 years enables ITEs to sell to domestic exhibitors, to manage the professional staging of the event and to deliver reliably a targeted visitor audience to the exhibition.
In April ITE acquired a new exhibition portfolio in Novosibirsk, Eastern Russia.
Siberian Fairs runs 30 exhibitions across all industry sectors and has market leading exhibitions in Novosibirsk.
This extension of ITEs o ce infrastructure will provide a platform for future growth of the exhibition portfolio in Novosibirsk.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
