Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 04-11 05 Chief Executives statement This year demonstrated our ability to use our specialist knowledge, experience and expertise to expand our reserves base while maintaining our strong cash flow.
Dr Paul Davies Chief Executive Financial performance into eastern Europe.
Initially, these areas were Our revenues rose by 12% to $207.0m, up from considered as frontier areas for western $184.5m in 2007 primarily due to higher oil and gas companies, despite their long history of oil and gas prices in the period.
We recognised early on the potential to $110.2m, compared to $94.3m in 2007 excluding for the application of modern oilfield techniques in the acquisition cost of our Russian subsidiary and developing prospective fields, and the latent includes the $56.2m investment in developing our technical, financial and administrative capabilities Ukrainian assets, $32.5m in the redevelopment of of the well-educated indigenous workforce.
Equally our Russian production company, and $21.5m on importantly, we saw the potential future value of our exploration licences in Hungary, Bulgaria and gas reserves which we believed to be significantly Slovakia.
Despite the great changes over the intervening 15 years, the area still provides Average realisations for gas produced in Ukraine opportunities for companies wishing to establish a in the period rose by 38% to $5.47 per Mcf sustainable corporate presence within what is a 2007: $3.95 per Mcf.
Gas realisations have also continually challenging and changing political and increased from the beginning of 2009 to economic environment.
approximately $7.00 per Mcf, as a result of the year-end negotiations between Russia and Ukraine.
In our view, local knowledge and expertise is Average realisations for oil in the period rose by essential to operating successfully and sustainably 40% to $84.34 per barrel $60.37 per barrel.
in Ukraine, Russia, and elsewhere in eastern Europe.
We have a staff of more than 500 with 95% What we aim to do of them being operationally focused and based in Our 15 years of operating in Ukraine have given Ukraine and Russia.
Employment of locally based us a solid platform for growth, a healthy balance staff with the best operational skills is central to sheet and a strong cash flow.
More importantly, we our strategy of being a valued partner in local have developed the experience and knowledge communities.
necessary to expand our reserves, not just through rigorous field appraisal and development, but also Critical achievements by selective exploration and strategic acquisitions We remain committed to developing and expanding in markets that we know well, such as our 2007 our exploration and appraisal licence portfolio in Russian acquisition.
Ukraine where we see substantial long-term opportunities, as demonstrated by our active Whilst market conditions have changed exploration programme in 2008.
The commissioning dramatically in the last 6 months our strategy has of the Soyuz tie-in in November has removed the not.
Although we recognise fully, the current constraint on gas delivery from our producing financial and economic challenges, our focus in Poltava fields.
2009 is to continue to enhance our Ukrainian producing operations, to progress the workover and Our Russian acquisition added approximately engineering programmes required to bring our 36 million boe to our booked 2P reserves, based on Russian assets on-stream in the fourth quarter of independent estimates.
Since acquisition, we have 2010, and to bring on-stream our first producing completed the 3D seismic programme over the field field in Hungary this year.
and this has added a further 5 million boe to our 2P reserves.
The decision to replace the field facilities Our markets has made it necessary to revise our target for first Our Company was founded more than 15 years gas delivery to the fourth quarter of 2010, and this ago to develop oil and gas assets in the states of revised programme has been agreed with the the former Soviet Union.
Since then we have both Russian authorities.
successfully operated in this area and expanded
