8 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Chief Executives report 2008 2007 2008 Divisional performance $m $m Change Revenue 5,243.1 4,432.7 18% Engineering & Production Facilities 3,244.7 2,582.8 26% Well Support 1,008.6 862.1 17% Gas Turbine Services 956.6 955.7 EBITA 441.0 318.4 39% Engineering & Production Facilities 316.1 214.5 47% Well Support 105.0 87.1 21% Allister Langlands, Chief Executive Gas Turbine Services 72.6 64.3 13% EBITA margin 8.4% 7.2% Engineering & Production Facilities 9.7% 8.3% Well Support 10.4% 10.1% Gas Turbine Services 7.6% 6.7% Revenue Operating and financial highlights up 18% Review of 2008 Group revenue grew 18% to $5.2bn, reflecting strong growth in Engineering & Production Facilities and Well Support, and relatively flat revenue in Gas Turbine Services.
The strong growth in Engineering EBITA & Production Facilities was driven by increased activity across all sectors in Engineering, and by the continuing strong demand for our Production Facilities activities in the North Sea and in international up 39% markets.
In Well Support, activity levels were good through 2008 in all three businesses and we continued to grow our international revenue outside the US.
In Gas Turbine Services, a good increase in underlying revenue was offset by the divestment of non core businesses and lower revenue from fast track power package contracts.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 9 : Revenue by division Revenue by region Engineering & Production Facilities North America Well Support Europe Gas Turbine Services Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific Central & South America Looking into 2009 Group EBITA margin increased from 7.2% to 8.4%, reflecting Engineering & Production Facilities has entered 2009 with a strong the strengthening of margins in all divisions.
In Engineering, we believe that our differentiated Production Facilities margin increased due to improvements in the capabilities, order book and prospects, market leading positions and underlying margins for both Engineering and for Production Facilities high quality customer base help position us well.
Production Facilities activities, combined with the mix benefit of our higher margin activity is largely driven by customers operating expenditure, with Engineering activities now representing 48% 2007: 44% of division around 70% of revenue based on longer term contracts.
In Well Support we saw a continuing increase in overall of our new contracts began in the last quarter of 2008 and this will margin, benefiting from revenue growth and our investment in higher provide a good contribution in 2009.
In Well Support we have already margin products and services.
In Gas Turbine Services our ongoing taken decisive management action in light of the challenging outlook initiatives to increase the amount of work performed under longer in the US gas market.
International activities outside the US are over term contracts, changes in the mix towards higher margin activities, 50% of Well Supports revenue, which will also provide support in the divestment of non core activities and a focus on cost reduction 2009.
Gas Turbine Services continues to be the leading independent and efficiency all contributed to the improvement in margin.
maintenance provider for industrial gas turbines, with around 85% of revenue derived from operational support activity, and we anticipate People a resilient aftermarket performance in 2009.
2008 has seen a tremendous year of growth in the number of people working at Wood Group.
Total headcount increased by 17% to 2009 will be a more challenging year for our industry due to the 28,800 people worldwide.
We remain focused on striving to become weakness in oil and gas prices and global economies.
In light of the employer of choice across all of our businesses.
We recognise this, we remain flexible, carefully controlling costs and managing our that attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent enables us working capital.
We have a strong balance sheet, have extended our to provide world class services and products to our customers and bank facilities to 2012 and are well positioned to take advantage of growth for our shareholders.
opportunities for acquisitions and organic investment which are likely to emerge in this more challenging market.
Safety In 2008 we saw a 15% improvement in the frequency of all injuries to Our 2009 reported earnings are likely to be impacted by the strength 3.3 cases per million man hours.
This was achieved through a series of of the US dollar reducing our reported non US dollar earnings pro-active initiatives with a focus on leading performance indicators.
However, in overall terms, the majority of the Groups profit Our lost work case frequency LWCF also improved by 27% to is in US dollars, therefore this has a net benefit to shareholders in our 1.1 cases per million man hours, reflecting a decrease in severity currency of listing.
We are committed to achieving the highest standards of safety in everything that we do and around the world we have won We remain confident in the longer term fundamentals of our key recognition for the performance that we have achieved.
Continuous markets and are continuing to execute our long term growth strategy.
improvement is a key measure of our success and is given the highest priority.
We believe we will be successful when no one is hurt.
Allister Langlands, Chief Executive 2 March 2009 For more detail about For more detail about our divisional performance our CSR initiatives turn to pages 20-25. turn to pages 32-39.
10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Wood Group in action Our strategy is to achieve long term sustainable growth by adding value to our customers operations with world-leading, highly differentiated products and services.
Our strategy has four strands: to maintain a good balance between field developments and later cycle production support to grow and maintain market leading positions, based on differentiated know how to develop longer term customer relationships, often through performance based contracts to extend our services and broaden our international presence For examples of how we are putting our strategy into action around the world see pages 12 to 19.
com annualreport2008 11 : Sevan Piranema Wood Group personnel inspect the inside of the Piranema FPSO ballast tanks prior to tow-out.
12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Balance Maintaining a good grEatEr Ekofisk arEa dEvElopmEnt projEct, norWay balance between field development Recent field development projects include: We have a broad service offering across a range of complex activities within the oil & gas and power ConocoPhillips EkoFisk, North Sea generation industries.
This means we can provide Delivering front end engineering design FEED services for the Greater our customers with life of field support from the initial Ekofisk Area Development, a 40-slot wellhead platform located in concept definition, through the development phase, into approximately 70-75 metres of water in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea.
We will also provide design services for the subsea flow production support and decommissioning.
lines and pipelines across the Greater Ekofisk Area.
Modec Jubilee FPSO, Ghana Providing the topsides design for Modec for the floating production storage and offloading vessel FPSO for the Jubilee field development offshore Ghana, West Africa.
The project is targeting first production in the second half of 2010.
Shell Perdido, Gulf of Mexico Conceptual engineering, detailed design, procurement assistance and fabrication support for what will be the deepest spar platform in the world.
This regional drilling and production hub will be installed in ultra deepwater slightly greater than 7,800 feet in the Gulf of Mexico.
BPs Valhall redevelopment project, offshore Norway CAD illustration We are working on the redevelopment of the Valhall field for BP Norge AS.
Our services include FEED, detailed design, procurement and project management services for the new combined production and hotel platform.
The scope extends over the full project duration from the start of FEED to project completion, including construction management assistance.
The redevelopment will extend field life by approximately 40 years, until 2050.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements 13 St Fergus Gas Terminal, Scotland We are the market leader in operations & maintenance support for UK onshore facilities and now work on nine terminals, including the St Fergus Gas Terminal.
rEpair & ovErhaul at Esp facility, oklahoma city, ok and later cycle production support Recent production support work includes: North Sea operations support We are the leading provider of operations support services in the UK North Sea.
We have been providing services to the regions leading operators for over 20 years.
Current contracts include Apache, BP, Shell, Total, Talisman and Hess.
In 2008 we continued to expand our market share with newer entrants such as TAQA and Ithaca.
Middle East production support We have recently been awarded two significant contracts for the supply of downhole electric submersible pumping ESP equipment and services in the Middle East with two key national oil companies NOCs, the Kuwait Oil Company KOC and Petroleum Development Oman PDO.
In Kuwait we monitor and maintain equipment for KOC to ensure timely well intervention.
In Oman we have one of the largest in country ESP infrastructures and this allows us to provide PDO with fast equipment delivery, minimising operational downtime.
al-rusail poWEr plant, sultanatE of oman 14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 SPAR Deep draft surface piercing cylinder type of floater, particularly well adapted to deepwater, which accommodates drilling, top tensioned risers and dry completions Leading positions Semi-submersible a particular type of floating vessel that is supported Growing and maintaining primarily on large pontoonlike structures submerged below the sea surface market leading positions and pipeline engineering.
We are technology leaders in several areas, We focus on achieving market leadership and such as high pressure high temperature HP HT, cryogenic pipelines, differentiation in areas where we believe we have, remote sensing, pipeline stabilisation, flow assurance, risers & integrity or can build, competitive advantage.
We have a track management and have experience in both greenfield and brownfield record of building market leading positions both arenas.
Downstream Market leading positions across the Group include: We have a market leading position in EPCM services in the US, operational enhancements and control system upgrades for refineries, Deepwater topsides including clean fuel modifications.
We have a market leading position in the conceptual engineering, FEED and detailed engineering, project and construction management Surface valves and wellheads EPCM of deepwater topsides around the world.
We have worked on We have a market leading position in the US for surface valves and over 30% of deepwater topsides installed worldwide.
We have developed very responsive distribution networks in the newer shale gas areas and have bundled services together to meet Subsea and pipeline engineering our customers needs.
We have a reputation built up over 30 years of world class performance and, with the acquisition of MCS during the year, we have Gas turbine operations & maintenance consolidated our Subsea & Pipelines Technology groups position as We are the worlds leading independent provider of integrated the worlds leading solutions independent engineering & management maintenance solutions such as for the Al-Rusail power plant in the services provider for subsea systems.
We have around 1,500 specialist Sultanate of Oman, and repair & overhaul services for industrial personnel situated in 14 permanent offices.
We have strong technical gas turbines.
We are also a leader in power station operations & excellence and a reputation for efficient project delivery in subsea maintenance.
Moorings Means of connecting the anchor on the seafloor to a large ship or a floating structure at the surface Energy Supporting Energy WEllhEad opErations, clEBurnE, tX Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements 15 Floating production storage & off loading vessel FPSO Floating tanker a converted or customoff loading buoy built vessel, employed to process oil & gas and for temporary storage of the oil prior to shipment Hybrid Riser A riser which typically combines a lower rigid riser section with an upper flexible pipe section Flexible Riser A flexible pipe or assembly of flexible pipes used to transfer produced fluids from the seabed to the surface facilities or to transfer injection fluids, control fluids or lift gas from the surface facilities and the seabed Umbilical Provides a means of robust connection between the topside control facilities and the subsea control elements.
The umbilical comprises hydraulic & electrical control lines which are used in the operation, maintenance and control of subsea installations and equipments Manifold Manifolds are seafloor subsea arrangements consisting of valves, piping and controls which are used to collect fluids from subsea wells, combine Wells Drilled into the several flows into one, and reroute seabed through oil or the flow to a processing facility on gas bearing deposits, the platform Typical subsea tie back the well bore is lined This diagram shows a typical subsea with a cemented steel tie back.
We are the worlds leading pipe, which projects solutions independent engineering above the seabed and management services provider for forming a wellhead subsea systems.
16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Relationships Developing longer term relationships with customers Strong relationships we have developed with customers We are focused on developing strong relationships include: with customers by providing cost effective and reliable project delivery.
Our success in this area is demonstrated Global subsea agreement by the long term relationships we have with major We have been supporting BP in key subsea regions around the world international operators, national oil companies, for over 30 years in designing the most up to date subsea facilities to meet the increasing demands for more efficient energy production.
independents and power companies throughout the We have entered into a five year global agreement to provide world.
engineering and project management services for their offshore subsea development projects.
Equatorial Guinea operations support We have provided operations, maintenance, project management, construction, logistics and training services in Equatorial Guinea since 2003 when we were awarded our first contract with Marathon.
Since establishing our presence in the country we have expanded to provide a broad range of services to ExxonMobil, Hess and Equatorial Guinea LNG.
We now provide services to eleven offshore platforms, Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements East tEXas ElEctric coopErativE, tEXas 17 two FPSOs, two onshore support bases, two training facilities, one LPG plant, one LNG plant and have over 600 personnel in Equatorial Guinea.
East Texas Electric Cooperative ETEC We are currently working with East Texas Electric Cooperative ETEC on a $36 million contract to construct and commission the San Jacinto Generating Facility, which will include two General Electric Frame 7EA gas turbine generators.
ETEC comprises ten electric cooperatives in the East Texas region providing low cost, reliable power to more than 300,000 consumers.
The San Jacinto plant will be constructed on a fast track basis to help ETEC meet increased electricity demands within its service territory, commencing in 2009.
We believe our strong experience with this type of plant design and equipment was the key differentiator that led ETEC to select us as its preferred partner in this project.
We have also been awarded a six year operations & maintenance contract covering full care, custody & control.
ESP service facility, Abu Dhabi A Wood Group employee along with a representative from our customer Total inspect a surface pumping system at the test facility in Abu Dhabi prior to delivery to Yemen.
opErations support, Equatorial guinEa opEarations & maintEnancE sErvicEs, Bp trinidad 18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Service & reach Extending our services and broadening our international presence the natural gas currently re-injected into oil reservoirs.
The first phase Our business success comes from serving our will seek to capture five million tons of CO gas per year by the end 2 customers well.
This means recognising their needs of 2013 from three emission sources: a gas fired power plant, an and delivering new and innovative solutions.
We have a aluminium smelter and a steel mill.
strong focus on both organic growth and acquisitions to expand our service and product lines and provide UK duty holderships, North Sea We are providing operations support services for the changing United access to new customers and new geographic markets.
Kingdom Continental Shelf UKCS licensee landscape including many newer entrants.
We have built up our capability and now have We have extended our services and broadened our international a significant position in UKCS duty holder services.
Our duty holder presence to include: installations now include the Beatrice offshore complex and wind farm, the onshore terminal at Nigg, Ventures Hummingbird FPSO and the Masdar Carbon Capture & Storage, Abu Dhabi, UAE four TAQA platforms Tern, Eider, North Cormorant and Cormorant We are providing services for Masdars Carbon Capture and Storage Alpha.
CCS project in the United Arab Emirates.
The project constitutes the first phase in a series of facilities capturing CO emissions from 2 industrial and power generation plants in Abu Dhabi.
The CO will be transported in a pipeline network and injected in Abu 2 Dhabis oil reservoirs for enhanced oil recovery.
The objective of the CCS network is to reduce Abu Dhabis carbon footprint and replace vEnturE hummingBird north sEa duty holdEr opEration Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements 19 Operations & maintenance support, Trinidad We are providing offshore and onshore maintenance & reliability, modifications engineering and field execution and materials management services for BPs production facilities in Trinidad.
We have over 400 personnel in country under a five year, reimbursable, performance based contract.
Deepwater Logging, Gulf of Mexico, USA We have extended our traditional land and Gulf of Mexico shelf based logging services to provide high pressure high temperature pipe recovery services in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We have successfully built a market leading position in this area.
Gas Turbine Asset Managment Solutions AMS, the Netherlands Total has contracted us for the provision of gas turbine and compressor equipment support services for its offshore assets.
The agreement means we will provide asset management support services for all critical rotating equipment, including Siemens and Solar turbines, and gas compression units.
Clear Lake, Iowa, USA We have extended our power station operations & maintenance services across North America.
