CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Neil Carson Chief Executive Johnson Mattheys new manufacturing facility and technical centre in South Korea.
Johnson Matthey performed very well in 2007 08.
Revenue and sales excluding precious metals were more than 20% up on last year at 7.5 billion and 1.8 billion respectively.
Profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles was 16% higher at 265.4 million.
All three of our divisions achieved good results.
Our new Environmental Technologies Division increased its operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles by 20% to 147.3 million.
Despite the slowdown in the US economy and the likely impact on the rest of the world, we believe that the division will continue to deliver strong growth over the next few years.
The divisions Emission Control Technologies ECT business performed very well with sales excluding the value of precious metals 32% up on last year.
This performance was driven by strong growth in sales of catalysts for heavy duty diesel vehicles, diesel particulate filters in Europe and autocatalysts in Asia.
The Process Technologies business also had a good year.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals were 10% up with high energy prices continuing to underpin demand for our catalysts, purification materials and process technologies.
Precious Metal Products Divisions operating profit was 20% up at 102.1 million.
The divisions Platinum Marketing and Distribution business achieved strong growth, benefiting from high platinum group metal pgm prices and good demand for the pgms.
Its manufacturing businesses also saw good growth and high metal prices boosted demand for our pgm recycling services.
4 Johnson Matthey Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division achieved Outlook good growth in 2007 08.
Sales rose by 13% and operating Environmental Technologies achieved strong growth in profit by 6% on a constant currency basis to 67.1 million.
We are currently seeing a slowdown in the US The divisions Catalysts and Chemicals business was well ahead economy which might have an adverse effect on growth in in Asia, particularly in China and India.
The Pharmaceutical the rest of the world.
Despite this more difficult economic Materials businesses achieved steady growth and Research backdrop we still expect Emission Control Technologies Chemicals also performed well, particularly in Asia.
to deliver another year of double digit growth in sales The acquisition of Argillon Group, which was concluded and profits.
Global car sales are expected to grow, with in February 2008 following the receipt of German regulatory weakness in the USA more than offset by growth in Asia, approval, is a further step in our strategy of long term Eastern Europe and South America.
In Europe, fitment of investment.
Argillon brings to the group leading catalyst diesel particulate filters will also continue to rise ahead of technology to control emissions of oxides of nitrogen the legislation.
We expect sales of trucks to grow again in NOx.
Its products include catalysts for mobile and the USA in the second half of our financial year, particularly stationary emission control including heavy duty diesel in the final quarter, partly as a result of pre-buying ahead vehicles, stationary diesel engines, marine applications and of the introduction of the next level of emissions legislation.
coal, oil and gas fired turbines for power generation.
This ECTs operating profit should also benefit from a continuation acquisition has added to our portfolio of emission control of the improved efficiencies achieved in the second half of technologies to meet increasingly challenging regulations to 2007 08. control harmful NOx emissions.
With increasing concern Our Process Technologies business is also experiencing about the effects of poor air quality on human health and strong demand, particularly for catalysts for synthesis gas, the environment, legislation to control NOx emissions from methanol, ammonia and hydrogen production.
Prospects an expanding range of sources will continue to tighten for Process Technologies are encouraging, driven by the around the world.
very high oil price and the need to make cleaner and more sophisticated hydrocarbon products from dirtier and more Sustainability 2017 intractable feedstocks.
Precious Metal Products Division enjoyed strong Johnson Matthey is a world leader in environmental growth in 2007 08, benefiting from buoyant trading technologies and with more than 50% of our profits conditions in platinum group metals and good growth in its generated by products that directly benefit the manufacturing businesses.
If the current favourable market environment, sustainability is a key element of our strategy conditions continue we expect the division to show further for the future growth of our business.
Fine Chemicals & Catalysts should fundamentally about the best long term way to run a deliver another year of steady growth.
Many of the markets business.
It gives us the opportunity to be more profitable in which the division operates, such as generic through being more careful with the worlds resources.
For pharmaceuticals, are unlikely to be particularly adversely Johnson Matthey there are two main sustainability thrusts.
affected by a general economic slowdown.
The first is about being more efficient with the resources Overall, the group should continue to perform well in that we use as a business, the cost of which will inevitably 2008 09.
Although Johnson Matthey is not immune to the continue to rise, and the second is about designing new effects of a recession, prospects for all our businesses are products that will help our customers to be more good, particularly for Environmental Technologies where sustainable and competitive.
global concerns about pollution, climate change and making In December 2007 we launched Sustainability 2017, the most efficient use of energy resources will continue to a long term vision for the whole group that is playing an create significant opportunities for future growth.
important role in helping all of us at Johnson Matthey to set our direction and aspirations for what we want to achieve in the future.
Our aims for Sustainability 2017 are to at least double our earnings per share whilst achieving zero waste to landfill, zero accidents and halving the key resources that we consume per unit output by 2017, the year marking the 200th anniversary of the founding of Neil Carson the company.
This is the first time that we have set out a Chief Executive vision in this very important area and we wanted it to be challenging and long term.
I know that every member of the Johnson Matthey team will rise to the challenge.
