qxd:29785 p005 NEW 6 4 09 14:34 Page 4 Directors Report: Business Review Kazakhmys at a glance: Our Markets Well positioned for key markets Operating environment Kazakhstan has several key advantages for future development.
The land is naturally resource rich, with extractable deposits of a wide range of natural resources.
The location and transport links are ideal for supplying several key commodity and power markets, including China, Europe and Russia.
UK Strong relationships with key clients Kazakhmys has developed long-term relationships with key Germany customers in the surrounding markets.
These relationships help provide a stable ow of sales.
Competitive position The integrated structure and broad asset base of Kazakhmys, combined with proximity to end markets, makes the Group a relatively low-cost provider of its principal products and creates exibility in both production and sales.
Diversication Diversication is a key part of the Groups strategy.
In 2008 the Group acquired Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power station in Kazakhstan, and increased its holding in ENRC, the Kazakh bulk commodities company, to 26%.
Low-risk growth projects The Group has several key low-risk growth projects particularly the copper projects at Boschekul and Aktogay and the expansion potential of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant.
Copper Power Location of operations: Kazakhstan Location of operations: Kazakhstan 20 mines 4 power plants 10 concentrators 3 coal mines 2 copper smelters Main markets: Main markets: Around 80% of copper is sold Customers are a mix of end Kazakhstan has a fragmented There are three captive under annual contracts, which users and traders.
power market due to power plants that supply fix volume but not price.
power to the Groups copper Most customer relationships operations.
Sales are generally divided are long term and the Group Currently work is taking place between China and Europe, has been selling into China to improve the connections Ekibastuz GRES-1 sells power and Kazakhstan is an ideal for over 10 years.
between the generating to third parties, with around location for serving both of capacity in the North and the 85% to domestic customers these markets.
and the balance to Russia.
4 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review A E S N A I P S A C 29785 p004-005 NEW.
qxd:29785 p005 NEW 6 4 09 14:34 Page 5 Russia Kazakhstan Boschekul Maikuben Astana Ekibastuz Orlovsky Artemyevsky  Nikolayevsky Molodezhny Central Mizek Belousovsky Irtyshsky Mukur Karaganda Region Aktobe Charsk Gold Abyz Ust-Kamenogorsk North & Belt & Zhaima Kuu-Chekinsky Akbastau West Nurkazgan East Region Kosmurun Sary-Oba North Eastern East Aktogay Akzhar Sayak West Annensky Kounrad Stepnoy Zhezkazgan South Complex Balkhash Complex Taskura Zhomart ARAL SEA Shatyrkul Almaty Bishkek Bozymchak Kyrgyzstan China Tajikistan Dushanbe Akjilga Copper Gold mine project mine project Coal mine Petroleum project Power plant Gold Petroleum MKM Location of operations: Kazakhstan, Location of operations: Kazakhstan Location of operations: Germany Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan 1 exploration block 1 nishing and 3 mines rening operation 3 development projects Main markets: Main markets: Main markets: Refinery in Balkhash treats most of the The operations are still in the MKM sells a range of semi-finished Groups by-product precious metals development stage.
copper and copper alloy products.
which are then sold to Europe.
Substantial existing infrastructure for Sold to a wide range of fabricators, The Gold Division has a gold dor local market and export, given the for use in construction, infrastructure, processing plant and the output is major oil and gas development projects automotive and other industrial uses.
Principal markets are in Europe and the Middle East.
