06 Chief Executives statement King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Ian Cheshire, Group Chief Executive, at the Brico Dpt store in Melun, near Paris.
indd 06 21 4 08 15:00:28 21 4 08 15:00:28 07 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Our aim is to deliver a step-change in value by focusing on three key priorities I am delighted to be leading King sher at this important time in Capital our development.
We have a great opportunity to unlock the full Investment will be reprioritised, targeting higher hurdle rates and potential of our strong assets.
By changing how the Group as a faster payback periods.
A key target is to stabilise debt at current whole is managed, tightening our use of capital and driving out levels, prior to reducing it in due course.
A target of at net debt higher cash returns from our businesses we intend to deliver a has been set for the current year.
step-change in value for our shareholders.
Capital invested to support King shers domestic and international Home improvement is an attractive segment of retail, bene ting from development has been signi cant to date, building strong retail and natural long-term demand characteristics fuelled by demand for more sourcing operations across the world and there continue to be new new housing and more frequent home renewal.
The market also investment opportunities which offer good returns.
However, debt bene ts from many products being common across international has expanded in recent years and, with the global economic cycle markets, giving rise to global sourcing and economies of scale.
now tightening, stabilising debt at current levels, prior to reducing it in due course is now a priority.
Accordingly, we have set a target of Within this market King sher is alone in having such a large and constant currency at net debt for the current year.
However, delivering more shareholder value from this strong strategic position will require Consistent with this, existing capital deployed across the Group changes in three key areas.
will be reviewed and new capital investment will continue, albeit at a slower rate.
Annual capital investment will be around 400 million, Management reprioritised to the highest and fastest-returning projects.
Higher A new senior team, working within a new management structure, hurdle rates have already been introduced with immediate effect, will have collective responsibility for overall Group delivery of results driving quicker achievement of attractive returns.
as well as key existing cross-Group activities.
Cash returns Historically, King sher has followed a decentralised management Greater focus will be placed on generating higher cash returns approach, with our retail businesses largely operating independently from the retail businesses.
Stretching targets for sales growth, but participating in Group-wide programmes for local advantage.
margin improvement and cost reduction will be drawn up.
This approach has successfully resulted in the businesses being well adapted to local customers, but it has yet to deliver the Groups Having invested signi cantly in the worldwide retail and sourcing full potential.
operations, greater focus will now be placed on generating higher cash returns from the retail businesses.
Operational improvements Going forward, the retail businesses will retain responsibility for best will be achieved through a greater customer focus and drive for serving their local customers but a new senior team, working within operating cost ef ciencies.
a new management structure, will have collective responsibility for overall Group delivery of results as well as key existing cross-Group Over the next three months the new management team will draw up activities: global sourcing, own-brand development, common new three-year operating plans with clear, stretching, but achievable, purchasing, IT, property and global talent management.
sales growth, margin improvement and cost reduction targets.
Greater emphasis will also be placed on optimising working capital.
Accordingly, three new geographic divisions have now been Accordingly, we will align management incentives to the delivery established: UK, France and Other International.
Three new of these plans, which will drive a step-change in shareholder value.
management roles have been created with overall responsibility for all businesses in each geographic division, and good progress No business can fully shield itself from economic cycles and given has been made in identifying these executives.
Philippe Tible, the current state of the financial markets, most commentators are CEO of Castorama France, has been appointed to lead the French expecting the short-term outlook to worsen before it improves.
division and an announcement about the UK will be made shortly.
Against this background, our priorities remain on improving cash margin and controlling costs.
I remain con dent that King sher has These three roles will make up the core of the new Retail Board a bright future with a strong position in an attractive retail sector, and with cross-Group powers and incentives.
Internal management with geographic diversi cation in developed and developing markets.
information has been simpli ed and more rigorous internal reporting business performance monitoring and challenge processes are Ian Cheshire being introduced.
The Group Chief Executive will regularly attend Group Chief Executive Board meetings of the UK, French and Polish businesses.
indd 07 19 4 08 14:55:15 19 4 08 14:55:15 08 Operating review UK King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Revamp programme gathers pace The UK home improvement market grew over the first half of the year, before weakening over the second half, as concerns over higher personal debt, less debt availability and falling house prices began to weigh on the consumer.
For the full year, the market grew by around 3%, following falls of 0.5% last year and 4% in 2005 06.
King shers businesses outperformed the market by delivering Renewal programme update sales growth of 5.1%, despite disruption from B&Qs biggest year B&Q aims to grow its share of home improvement expenditure of change in its history.
by strengthening its appeal to both the Do-it-Yourself DIY and Do-it-For-Me DFM customer.
During 2007 08, B&Q underwent B&Qs total reported sales were 3.9 billion, up 2.7% 52 weeks.
the biggest year of change in its history, which included updating For the first time in three years, despite operating in a challenging product ranges, improving its store environments and introducing market and with dif cult summer weather patterns, like-for-like more services, to ensure B&Q is the first and only store for a greater sales were up, by 0.6%.
Total sales grew 4.8% over the first half but proportion of customers home improvement spend.
only 0.5% in the second half 26 weeks, re ecting a tougher retail environment.
However, good sales growth from revamped large New product ranges stores and new ranges helped offset disruption from the ongoing B&Q updated 60% of its overall product ranges during the year, renewal activity.
supported by a major new advertising campaign.
Updated ranges of wall and window coverings, lighting, soft furnishings and kitchens Retail pro t was 131 million 2006 07: 163 million, after 29 million sold particularly well, as have bedroom, plumbing and ooring net revenue costs of the renewal programme 14 million revamping ranges which have been updated more recently.
A better underlying larger stores and 15 million range review clearance activity.
performance is expected from these changes in 2008 09.
Underlying retail pro t was broadly maintained.
The underlying gross margin rate, before range review clearance activity, was Customer service slightly up compared to last year, re ecting less promotional activity Customer service requirements are typically the highest when and a favourable sales mix towards new, higher margin products.
shopping for room make-over decorative items and major home improvement projects.
Good advice, online and in-store, coupled Total costs grew 4% 52 weeks with underlying cost in ation of with fast and ef cient delivery and installation, are key to good 2%, net new space growth of 2% and the additional costs of store customer service.
revamping offset by cost savings.
During the first half of the year, 800 in-store decorative advisers received practical decorating skills training, to enable them to advise customers on how to style rooms.
This initiative has been well received and will be extended to laying ooring, tiling and the basics of plastering and tting kitchens and bathrooms.
Market data from GfK for the leading retailers of home improvement products and services KF6712 IFC-p32 v13c.
indd 08 21 4 08 12:46:46 21 4 08 12:46:46 After Before 09 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 01 02 01 Revamped displays A key development during the year was the progress of the large store revamp programme.
These stores are lighter, brighter and feature more clearly fide ned shop-within-shop sections, more room-set displays and more space allocated to kitchens, bathrooms, ooring and tiling areas.
The store revamp in Farnborough, Hampshire pictured right, was completed in February.
B&Q revamped around 5.5 million square feet of store space across the year and now has over half its store space in a modern format.
In total, 38 of the 117 large stores are in the modern format, with 27 completed in the year.
The programme remains on track for completion in 2011.
indd 09 19 4 08 14:55:15 19 4 08 14:55:15 10 Operating review UK King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Following a major overhaul of B&Qs installation and home delivery UK Trade services, the time from order to delivery and installation of kitchens Screw x total sales grew 28.0% 52 weeks, driven by the and bathrooms has been reduced by five weeks on average.
continued roll-out of the trade counters, which provide customers with immediate product availability and a bigger catalogue.
com has been revamped, with An additional 55 outlets opened during the year, taking the total customers now able to use new free room design and bathroom to 93.
Trade counters now represent almost 40% of total sales.
planner software, view more than 35,000 products online and To support this continued growth, a second distribution centre check availability in their local store.
In addition, 6,500 products was successfully commissioned during the year in Stafford.
continue to be available for home delivery.
Retail pro t increased 6.4%, driven by the strong sales growth Store development and ful lment ef ciency gains, offset by start-up costs for the Having revamped around 5.5 million square feet of store space second distribution centre and an accelerated trade counter across the year, B&Q now has over half its store space in a modern opening programme.
Excluding the impact from these initiatives, format.
Twenty seven large store revamps, which encompass retail pro t would have been up around 14%.
more clearly fide ned shop-within-shop sections, room-set displays and more space allocated to kitchens, bathrooms, ooring and One Planet Living at B&Q In January, B&Q unveiled potential demand.
One Planet part of this, B&Q aims to a series of initiatives to help Living aims to maximise the develop a substantial One it and millions of British use of sustainable materials Planet Living product range home owners to reduce and their transport whilst in store.
This includes low their environmental impact.
minimising carbon usage energy lightbulbs and B&Q signed a three-year and waste.
eco-wool loft lagging, partnership with BioRegional winner of the Retail Week B&Q is working with to move towards being a Product Innovation of the BioRegional to develop two One Planet Living business.
Year award for 2008. sustainability action plans: As the worlds population As part of this initiative, one for B&Qs own operations, grows there simply arent and one to help its customers B&Q also announced enough resources available its decision to phase out achieve One Planet Living in on the planet to meet their homes and gardens.
This programme remains on track Trade Depot, which targets the general builder and specialist for completion by 2011. trade customer, opened two more branches during the year taking the total trading to six.
The 11 large new format stores which have been open for more than one year have delivered targeted average sales densities of As part of the new management structure, an integrated review over 200 per square foot, 25% higher than comparable sized, of the optimal UK trade strategy across our various brands will older format stores.
The higher sales productivity results from customers spending more in the expanded kitchen, bathroom and associated project areas.
In aggregate, the revamps, which on average have only 24 weeks trading data, have delivered sales uplifts of 13% higher than a control group.
However, measurement of this relative uplift excludes the bene ts of updated product ranges, which are now substantially available in all stores, including the control group stores.
B&Q now has 117 large stores 38 in the latest format and 206 medium stores of which 151 have been modernised.
Overall net space increased 2% during the year.
indd 10 19 4 08 14:55:20 19 4 08 14:55:20 11 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 01 02 03 01 Monsoon Yasuko ceramic table lamp, 99 02 New Colours Collection paints, 14.98 per 2.5 ltr 03 New Organic Living ranges of herbs and plants Screw x a multi-channel success story Screwfi x is a true multiweekend delivery to three years Screwfi x has channel retailer.
With its tradesmen, handymen and added a nationwide network catalogue, internet and trade serious DIY enthusiasts all of trade counters, with over counter network giving over the country.
10,000 items in stock for customers three ways to immediate collection.
By the In the past year the number of buy, the business has grown year end there were 93 trade products offered by Screwfi x to become the UKs largest counters in the UK, with the has grown by 20% to more direct and online supplier 100th opening at the end of than 18,000.
The catalogue of trade tools, accessories February, in Epsom, Surrey.
grew by 14% to over 1,100 and hardware products.
The online presence Every week, Screwfi x is also growing, with internet second national distribution despatches around 80,000 centre to serve its growing orders accounting for 30% parcels for next day and of the total.
And in the past trade counter estate.
04 05 06 04 Carbonised solid bamboo wood fl ooring, 05 Moisture-resistant B&Q Designer Marylou 06 Gloss Cream Slab and Chocolate Oak Shaker 22.98 per sq m wallpaper, 12.98 per roll Kitchen produced from timber certifi ed to FSC standards Prices correct as at 26 March 2008 KF6712 IFC-p32 v13c.
