This is Logica CEOs review We are proud to work with a very broad range Dear Shareholder, of customers across Europe.
In 2008, our top This report covers my first 50 customers accounted for 32% of revenue.
year as Chief Executive As our customers reduce their number of Of cer of Logica.
It has been suppliers, we have an opportunity to meet a broader range of their needs.
a great privilege to lead the dedicated and talented team Outlook for 2009 of people at Logica.
We had a strong fourth quarter order intake and have a good pipeline of large In April 2008, we launched a three year plan, opportunities, particularly in outsourcing.
This building on Logicas distinctive strengths.
is driven by the investments we have made in We did well against our plan in 2008.
Offsetting this is a achieved the financial targets we set out to reduction in shorter term consulting projects.
shareholders while strengthening our As a result, we expect revenue for the first half management capability, implementing our of 2009 to be in line with 2008 on a constant strategy, and transforming the business currency basis.
around our key European customers.
We also We are continuing to prioritise stringent put the business on a rmer operational and cost management across the business and Andy Green financial footing, with the support of our have already taken decisive action in early CEO, Logica shareholders.
Following lower attrition in the last During 2008 I have prioritised spending quarter of 2008, we signi cantly slowed time with customers and launching a major recruitment and continue to impose a communications programme to ensure Logica disciplined approach to the use of people everywhere understand our strategy subcontractors.
Our 2009 cost savings have Watch a video update on the and plan.
As a result, customers are noticing been progressively accelerated from our progress of our Programme a more ambitious Logica that is working well original target of 50 million in April to the 75 for Growth at: together across the world and is responding million we are now projecting.
We will build on this additional action in individual business units logica.
com during 2009 to create a preference for should demand conditions weaken further.
We are con dent that these actions should You can read more detail about Logicas allow us to protect full year margins, and, strengths, the plan we set out and our dependent on market conditions in the achievements in 2008 in the following pages.
second half of 2009, deliver our planned improvement of around 0.5% in adjusted Market overview operating margin.
In 2009 we will keep focused on delivering Looking further ahead, our close long term against our plan and making progress against relationships with major European customers, our long term goals, while coping with a more deep industry knowledge, and our innovative dif cult economic environment.
European and exible culture will provide a robust GDP forecasts now suggest that the IT platform for future growth and drive longservices market will decline modestly in 2009, term, sustainable shareholder value.
We aim with more weakness expected in markets with to make Logica a trusted innovation partner a larger financial services and general for customers, a great company to work for, industrial exposure.
Public Sector, Energy and and a great company in which to invest.
Utilities, and Telecoms which collectively We know that we rely on the goodwill of accounted for 53% of Group revenue in 2008 our customers, people and shareholders and remain robust.
Our broad spread across I would like to thank them all for their support sectors, as well as geographies, underpins in 2008. our con dence in our ability to perform better than the market in 2009.
Appetite for using blended delivery has increased.
While there is increasing pricing pressure, we have been able to respond by offering blended delivery and agreeing more ef cient ways of working with our clients.
Andy Green Chief Executive Of cer 3
