04 Chief Executives Review Dear Shareholders, In addition, our organisational structure has It is a great privilege to be giving my first Review as become overly complex with too many layers of Chief Executive Officer of Lonmin.
Lonmin is a unique management and poorly implemented shared services business with high quality long life assets.
However, the structure, which resulted in overhead duplication.
Company has struggled with a number of challenges Lonmin, along with the rest of the mining industry, and has been performing below its potential.
was impacted during the year by the electricity supply 2008 has been a difficult year with cost escalation situation in South Africa, with an industry-wide throughout the year and challenging market shutdown in January as well as a rationing of our conditions in the latter part of the year putting energy consumption to 95% of normal levels.
pressure on our margins and cash generation.
However, we have been successfully managing the With this in mind, I have conducted a review of business at this level of energy consumption for our operations, primarily focusing on improving around five months now.
performance, reducing costs and maximising the Another key external factor during the year was value of our assets.
the increased emphasis on mine safety by the In this letter, I will discuss the following: government, evidenced by the growing prevalence of safety closures across the industry.
We fully support The Past: the internal and external issues this renewed focus on safety by the government and encountered during 2008: we expect this focus to be maintained in 2009.
Safe The Present: our immediate focus areas and the working practices remain a key priority for Lonmin and action plans we are implementing to ensure Lonmin we recorded another excellent safety performance in delivers consistent, low cost production: and 2008, more details of which can be found in the The Future: our long term potential includes a Review of Operations on page 7 of this Report.
range of growth options which can supplement Workforce-related issues were also prevalent our core Marikana operations.
throughout the industry in South Africa.
There were three one day national strikes in the 2008 financial The Past issues impacting 2008 year.
The shortage of skilled workers in South Africa Although we saw encouraging signs of operational has also been an issue, as international markets and improvements towards the end of the year, overall significant national infrastructure projects attract our production and cost performance in 2008 was resources.
This was the result of both internal and external factors.
The Present immediate priorities and actions Our Mining business has suffered from a lack of We intend to take steps to entrench our low cost mine ore reserve development.
production during the year and will continue to do so Short term market conditions will lead to structural in 2009, as we continue to accelerate ore reserve shifts within the Platinum industry development to address this issue.
In addition, our As outlined in the Chairmans Review, cost inflation was operating systems were poorly implemented, resulting ever present in 2008, whilst the pricing environment in weak planning, production control and forecasting.
worsened towards the end of the financial year.
PGM Most importantly, productivity has been below our prices are now some way below the cash cost of expectations, primarily at our mechanised shafts.
production for a significant proportion of the industry Across the Process Division, there has been a and the longer this situation prevails, the more renewed focus on optimising recoveries which, in companies, including Lonmin, will need to take action recent years, have been below historical levels.
We to protect their financial position.
We anticipate a sharp have also struggled to release stock from the system.
decline in investment in the industry in the short term, This has been a key factor in our missed production which could include shaft closures and moth-balling, guidance and has adversely affected our working resulting in reduction or deferment in the supply of capital.
This will be an area of focus for us in 2009.
This increases the possibility of a rebound in pricing once sentiment and markets improve.
I have conducted a review of our operations, primarily focusing on improving performance, reducing costs and maximising the value of our assets.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics Ian Farmer Chief Executive Our key priority is to focus 05 on our Marikana asset base, thereby re-establishing it as a strong platform which will leave us well positioned to exploit a rebound in the market environment.
With these structural shifts in mind, my first priority Reducing costs, managing cash and capital has been to look for ways to improve our operational rationing: a restructuring team, led by Mian Khalil, performance, with an emphasis on consistent, low Executive Vice President Capital Programmes, cost production.
I have therefore restructured key has been established to review our cost structure.
parts of the business, with a view to aggressively We have implemented a series of initiatives to cutting and better managing costs, while at the same restrict spending, including a freeze on all time increasing managements focus on delivery recruitment.
We have also taken the decision to against plans.
Actions taken include the following: halve our exploration expenditure.
This spend level protects the value of our portfolio.
We will continue Eliminating non-value adding ounces: we have to work with our joint venture partners and we will reviewed the contribution from our underground allocate less cost to our wholly-owned projects in business on a shaft-by-shaft basis and we intend the short term.
In addition, we have reviewed our to initiate consultations with our workforce and capital expenditure programmes throughout the the unions in relation to the future of operations business.
As a result, our capital expenditure at our Limpopo property, which we believe are programme will be primarily focused on mine uneconomic.
Currently production from Limpopo development at Marikana and obligatory spend is included in our 2009 guidance.
We have also at our Process Division.
We have placed all other taken the decision to suspend production from growth projects on a care and maintenance basis: our opencast operations at Marikana with effect from the end of the 2008 calendar year: Simplified organisational structure with clear accountability: we have simplified our organisational Mechanisation strategy changed: we have failed structure to bring greater management focus and to significantly improve productivity from our two to give the operations more ownership of the fully mechanised shafts and, given the resultant functions required to ensure effective and efficient high cost of production, we have taken the delivery.
To achieve this, we have re-allocated decision to change our approach.
We are responsibility for the Shared Business Service switching to hybrid mining at Saffy shaft, where functions to line managers within the Mining, we are introducing conventional stoping methods, Process and Finance Divisions.
This will simplify whilst maintaining mechanised development.
This our management structure and help remove any change will be completed during the course of duplication.
Furthermore, to enable greater 2009 and is likely to cause an initial, short term accountability in each area of the business, I have dip in output from this shaft.
We have also appointed Mahomed Seedat as our new Chief concluded that K4 shaft will be developed as a Operating Officer with overall responsibility for the hybrid mine when it comes into production in operations in South Africa, reporting to me.
This is due to the nature of the ore body Sheppard, Executive Vice President, Mining and and the experience gained from our investment in Theuns fide Bruyn, Executive Vice President, mechanisation to date.
Hossy shaft will continue to Process Division now report to Mahomed.
be run as a fully mechanised shaft as we continue Together with Mahomed, Alan Ferguson, Chief to work hard to achieve satisfactory levels of Financial Officer, and Albert Jamieson, Executive productivity.
We will review the performance of Vice President, Commercial, make up my three Hossy shaft in September 2009 if it becomes direct reports and divisional heads: apparent that we are not able to achieve productivity of 1500 square metres per month per suite of equipment: www.
com 06 Chief Executives Review continued Management emphasis in South Africa: we During the year, we completed a pre-feasibility require greater management focus in South Africa study at our Limpopo expansion project, which where all our operations are located.
To achieve indicated the combined property supports a mine this we are reducing the current headcount of the producing around 4.3 million tonnes per annum at full London office by one third and transferring certain production.
Likewise, at Pandora, we successfully functions to South Africa.
In addition, it is crucial completed a pre-feasibility study on a standalone that, as Chief Executive Officer, I am close to our project looking at the development of a 2.9 million operations and I will therefore spend around half tonnes per annum operation using a hybrid mining of my time in South Africa.
The Pandora project will continue to be progressed on a self-funded basis with our joint The Future building a sound base for growth, venture partners.
supported by long term expansion options We will continue to evaluate opportunities, as they Lonmin has excellent growth prospects at our core arise.
This includes reviewing our strategy on Chrome, operations at Marikana, supplemented by a range of a by-product of our mining and processing of UG2 projects, which provide the Company with long term ore, where we believe there is unexploited value.
growth options, to be accessed at the appropriate time.
Summary Growing production from a solid base With the decisive actions taken at the start of the Our key priority at the current time is to focus on our 2009 financial year, I believe that we will be able to Marikana asset base, thereby re-establishing it as a address the issues that have impacted the business strong, well controlled platform which will leave us in previous years.
Furthermore, I am confident that well positioned to exploit a rebound in the market these actions will enable Lonmin to entrench our low environment.
We expect to increase our production from Finally, I would like to thank Lonmin employees, underground operations at Marikana in the 2009 contractors and community members for their financial year, which will compensate for the reduction support during what has been a period of great in opencast production, following our decision to uncertainty.
The changes resulting from the close those operations by the end of the 2008 restructuring of the business and the increased focus calendar year.
Consequently, we are targeting on reducing our cost base are essential for our future Platinum sales guidance for the 2009 financial year and will, I believe, help to ensure that Lonmin is able broadly in line with that achieved in the 2008 financial to weather market conditions and be in the best year.
This takes into account the restructuring of our shape possible to exploit the upturn when it occurs.
mechanised shafts and the development challenges In these difficult circumstances, the support and hard faced by the Mining operational management team.
work of our employees, contractors and community In addition, the rebuild of the Number One furnace, members is appreciated.
initiated earlier this month, will have an impact on output during the first half of the 2009 financial year.
Further ahead, we remain confident that we can achieve, and improve on, previous sales levels of over 900,000 Platinum ounces per annum.
Maintaining flexibility around longer term growth Ian Farmer To supplement Marikana, we have a number of Chief Executive Officer projects which provide us with options from which we 17 November 2008 can deliver significant medium to long term growth.
However, given our focus on cash management and the current state of the credit markets, we believe it prudent to put these projects, including Akanani and Limpopo, on a care and maintenance basis for the short term.
We still firmly believe that the quality and the unique average 18 metre width of the Akanani ore body presents an outstanding opportunity for Lonmin.
This is supported by findings from a scoping study carried out at Akanani during 2008, which indicated an acceptable rate of return.
