C H I E F E X E C U T I V E O F F I C E R S R E V I E W Global economic events during the second half of 2008 added complexity to programmes in place to address Anglo Platinums operational and cost challenges.
I am pleased that the management team, with the support of the Board, is adapting Neville Nicolau to the current uncertain economic conditions and building a sound base to enhance medium and longterm value in the unique platinum business sector.
INTRODUCTION I joined Anglo Platinum during a period of tough operational challenges, at a point when further organisational change was required to return the Company to optimal performance.
The impact of global economic developments on the Company during 2008 demanded additional and urgent short-term action.
The first half of 2008 was characterised by record high metal prices, high operating margins and strong inflationary pressures.
The change in conditions in the second half of the year was profound, leaving operating margins largely eroded by the end of 2008.
Our management team has been bolstered with the appointment in 2008 of Mike Rogers and Fritz Neethling, whose extensive collective experience in the South African mining industry is already enhancing team effectiveness.
Our team has risen to the challenge of taking decisive, short-term action while retaining the necessary focus on the mediumand long-term initiatives necessary to deliver sustained value.
I am also pleased to welcome our new executive director: finance, Bongani Nqwababa, to the team, particularly under the current economic conditions.
Despite high costs and the volatile metal-price environment, for the third year in a row, Anglo Platinum achieved record earnings R13.3 billion in 2008.
Our operating costs remained unacceptably high as a result of inflation, the reduced volumes associated with a number of one-off events in 2007 and 2008, and improvements in operating efficiencies not yet reaching their desired levels.
Planned lower production in 2009, in recognition of market demand, includes a commensurate reduction in costs to retain positive operating margins across the group.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 12 SAFETY One of the most challenging aspects of my role at Anglo Platinum is to ensure that our approach to employee safety moves us towards our goal of zero harm.
I firmly believe that safety is an integral part of every employees role at work each day.
I am personally committed to integrating our enhanced safety improvement plan into the daily actions of every Anglo Platinum employee.
Initiatives to achieve this integration are currently under way, based on the results of an extensive review of the enhanced safety plan.
Against this commitment, it is with deep regret that I report that 17 employees lost their lives while at work at our managed operations in 2008.
On behalf of management, I extend our sincere condolences to their families, friends and colleagues.
THE MARKET The unprecedented scale of movements in the price of platinum during 2008 and associated changes in demand in different segments highlighted the unique nature and inherent strength of the structure of the platinum market.
Each demand segment reacts differently to the magnitude, rate of change and duration of price movements.
Strong autocatalyst and investment demand, primarily from the newly introduced exchange traded funds ETFs, led platinum to the record level of $2,276 per ounce in March 2008.
The high metal prices in the first half of the year also resulted in intensified efforts to thrift platinum group metals PGMs from catalyst systems and to substitute cheaper palladium for platinum.
Palladium benefited from its high price differential with platinum and from developments in technology, thereby increasing its share in the diesel market.
In the second half of the year, the global economic downturn reduced credit availability for vehicle purchases.
Anglo Platinum estimates that demand from the autocatalyst segment decreased by more than 8% or 330,000 ounces, owing to the smaller number of vehicles produced and a rundown of stock levels by the major auto companies.
Metal purchases by platinum jewellery manufacturers declined materially as a result of the high prices and there was a corresponding increase in the use of recycled jewellery metal.
This was particularly the case in Japan and China.
However, platinums strong, established brand identity supported demand at the retail level, where the high price forced fide-stocking, impacting on manufacturing and display stocks.
Japanese investment in physical platinum increased dramatically in the last quarter of 2008.
This was assisted by the low platinum price and the strength of the yen against the dollar, with investor interest growing strongly at a time when other financial markets plunged.
At the same time, ETF positions began to recover.
The jewellery trade used this opportunity to rebuild stocks and to use new metal in manufacturing, especially once the availability of recycled metal began to decline.
Investment and speculative interest declined rapidly in mid-2008, with a substantial sell-off in physical platinum coins and bars in Japan, large disinvestment in platinum ETF units in Europe and reductions in net long positions on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.
This sell-off and reduction in net long positions led the rapid price decline in platinum, to well below $1,000 per ounce by October 2008.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 13 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E O F F I C E R S R E V I E W The global supply of platinum has decreased by 11% or 740,000 ounces, over the past two years and is not expected to increase in the current global economic environment.
As a number of government support packages to stimulate the worlds biggest economies start to have an impact, an increase in the demand for PGMs is expected.
Anglo Platinum expects a balanced platinum market in 2009.
It also anticipates that the platinum price, which suffered downside overcorrection on negative news flow in the second half of 2008, is likely to trade above $1,000 per ounce on average during 2009 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE I am pleased to report that in 2008 we produced 2.39 million ounces of platinum, in line with our forecast of 2.4 million ounces and above the revised forecast range of 2.2 to 2.25 million ounces announced following a furnace run-out at Polokwane Smelter in November.
The smelter returned to production two weeks earlier than expected and this, together with the selected processing of high-grade concentrate stocks, virtually negated the delay in refined metals production, although sales volumes were reduced by the usual lag between refining and despatch.
Several one-off events in 2008 made maintaining operational efficiency most challenging.
They included the flooding at Amandelbult Section: the suspension of operations to rehabilitate steelwork at the Turffontein shaft at Rustenburg Section: electricity supply constraints in January, together with the ramp-up period when supply resumed: safety-related stoppages: and commissioning delays and consequent lower throughput at the Mogalakwena North concentrator.
Sump below the flotation cells at Motololo concentrator.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 14 The losses resulting from these production disruptions were partly offset by the increase in purchased ounces from the new Eland Platinum mine, which began delivery to Anglo Platinum in December 2007: and by increased production at the new Mogalakwena North pit and the Modikwa and Kroondal mines.
I am pleased that the remedial actions taken to address the disruptions to operations in 2008 minimised the latters impact on output.
They also included measures to prevent similar events in future.
The second run-out at Polokwane is a good example of this, as lessons learnt and improvements made after the first failure, and also the output-focused approach to the second repair, significantly reduced the downtime.
I believe that the excellent people we have within Anglo Platinum are capable of extracting far greater value from the Companys extensive asset base.
I look forward to leading the further change in organisational culture and acknowledge the willingness shown by our employees to embrace such change.
One of the key initiatives currently under way is the restructuring of our mining operations into more efficient stand-alone units.
The new structures will allow operational management to meet the safety, labour and technical challenges of the current mining environment.
We will split our largest mines into smaller new mine entities, to ensure the focused and value-based management of our assets.
These improvements will support a sustainable reduction in the unit cost of production and will also underpin our commitment to extracting maximum value from our assets.
ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE Anglo Platinum has embarked on an organisational change programme aimed primarily at changing the Company culture.
The initiative, based on our Company values, is focused on output and strives to integrate these values into daily activities.
It also supports our unrelenting drive to achieve zero harm in the workplace by changing our attitude to safety and enhancing our clarity of purpose.
The new mindset will facilitate a management style that will ensure continued operational efficiency and improved productivity.
PROJECTS The implementation of Anglo Platinums extensive portfolio of mining and processing projects, in place to maintain and, potentially expand refined platinum output in the long term, continued in 2008.
Projects remained largely on schedule, despite the global competition for skills and resources that is associated with capital projects of this nature and that made implementation in the first half of 2008 most challenging.
The rapid decrease in prices in the second half of 2008 led to declining margins, reflecting how global economic events can negatively influence short-term demand.
We conducted a review of our capital expenditure programme, as a result of which the total capital expenditure for 2009 has been reduced to R9.1 billion, to be achieved through the deferral of expenditure across several major and numerous smaller projects.
This level of capital expenditure supports the production level of 2.4 million ounces in 2009.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 15 C H I E F E X E C U T I V E O F F I C E R S R E V I E W The criteria used for project expenditure deferral were to maximise short-term reductions in expenditure and minimise the delay in reaching full production.
Where capital deferral reduced short-term production, this could be accommodated because reduced refined output was required to address the short-term reduction in demand.
The commissioning of the Mogalakwena North expansion project concentrator is complete.
Capital expenditure planned for the accelerated removal of overburden at the new North pit has been deferred.
As a result less ore will be exposed, consequently reducing the level of mining output originally planned for 2009.
MINING RIGHTS AND TRANSFORMATION Anglo Platinum received letters of grant in 2008 for new order mining rights, for Rustenburg, Amandelbult, Union, Lebowa, Mogalakwena, Twickenham, Der Brochen and BRPM mining areas from the Department of Minerals and Energy.
Some of these are conditional on the submission of revised social and labour plans.
The application for conversion of mineral rights associated with our 50:50 joint venture with the African Rainbow Minerals consortium over Modikwa mine is being prepared as a joint submission from both partners.
In September 2007, the Company announced two major black economic empowerment transactions, with partners Anooraq Resources and Mvelaphanda Resources.
Steady progress is being made in concluding these transactions.
The Mvelaphanda transaction is almost complete, with final consent awaited from the Minister of Minerals and Energy on the disposal of the Booysendal property.
Owing to the global economic slowdown, certain aspects of the Anooraq transaction are being re-evaluated and the date for their fulfilment has been extended to 30 April 2009.
Both parties remain committed to concluding the transaction during 2009.
During the year, we reached agreement with our employees and labour unions on the key terms and structure of the Companys broad-based employee share participation scheme ESOP.
The Company has established the Anglo Platinum Kotula Trust to facilitate the scheme on behalf of the beneficiaries and issued approximately 2.5 million shares to the trust, representing approximately one per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
More than 90% of the beneficiaries of ESOP will be historically disadvantaged South Africans In 2008 we reached agreement with Royal Bafokeng Holdings RBH to restructure the BafokengRasimone Joint Venture.
This includes the Styldrift project, whereby Anglo Platinum will retain an effective stake of 43% in the venture and receive payment for the transfer of control.
The transaction will result in the creation and listing of a black economic empowerment PGM producer, controlled by RBH and independently managed.
The transaction is expected to take between one and two years to complete.
OUTLOOK Notwithstanding the current uncertainty in the global resources and platinum sectors, we believe that our long term strategy to develop the market for platinum group metals, to expand our production into that opportunity and to conduct our business cost-effectively and competitively remains sound.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 16 It is essential that we consider the long-term prosperity of the business when taking short termaction.
Nevertheless, Anglo Platinum intends to respond on an ongoing basis to the challenges that face the platinum industry.
While we believe that our planned level of refined platinum production of 2.4 million ounces is appropriate for 2009, management will take appropriate action should economic conditions affecting net platinum demand deteriorate further.
We will continue to monitor our production levels against global economic developments and will provide revised production guidance when appropriate.
To maintain positive operating margins at the planned production level of 2.4 million ounces of refined platinum in 2009, we need to reduce the current cost of production.
This will be achieved by reducing the number of contract employees at operations and by the active management of the supply chain to realise, without delay, the benefits of significant reductions in input commodity prices.
Every effort will be made to avoid the retrenchment of permanent employees.
However, should PGM prices deteriorate further, this may become unavoidable.
The combination of the reduction in capital expenditure and of cost-reduction initiatives is expected to reduce the rate of increase in net debt in 2009.
Funding facilities in place are adequate for our anticipated funding requirements.
CONCLUSION I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their contribution to the Company during what has been a challenging year.
Current initiatives will test all of us at Anglo Platinum, particularly in the context of global economic uncertainty.
Implementing the cost reductions required on our operations to maintain profitability will require tough decisions to be taken..
I am convinced that the executive team in place is well positioned to manage these challenges.
Neville Nicolau Chief Executive Officer Johannesburg 5 February 2009 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 17 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 18
