Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 5 Chief Executives statement Its been another good year for M&S, achieved in difficult circumstances.
We started with a strong first half, but experienced more difficult trading conditions in the second half, largely as a result of the economic slowdown.
Having completed the first phase of our recovery, we are now broadening our plan in order to take Sir Stuart Rose the business into the next stage of growth.
In 2008 09 we will need to manage the business in a challenging economic environment, while Highlights continuing to invest for future growth.
1,007m Broadening the plan Adjusted pre-tax profits In 2004 we put in place a three-part plan for renewing and reinvigorating M&S in order to secure profitable growth and build the business for the long term.
Our focus was on getting the basics right, by improving the products we offer, 4.3% our customer service and shopping environments.
Increase in adjusted pre-tax profits In 2007 08 we continued to make progress against the plan.
We sold more goods to more people, reporting our biggest volume increase in sales in eight 9,022m years, with volume market share in clothing and footwear at 11.2%.
At the Group sales same time, we held our lead in the value market for clothing and footwear achieving 11.0% market share.
Clothing and home sales were up 1.4% to 5.1% almost 4.06bn.
Per una also performed strongly under the leadership of Increase in Group sales George Davies, reporting sales of more than 428m.
UK stores International stores Flagship stores 44 Simply Food stores 167 Bahrain 1 Philippines 14 High street stores 219 Simply Food Bermuda 1 Poland 4 franchised stores 132 Retail park stores 27 Bulgaria 1 Qatar 1 Total UK stores 622 Croatia 4 Republic of Ireland 17 M&S outlets 33 Cyprus 10 Romania 6 Czech Republic 10 Russia 12 Gibraltar 1 Saudi Arabia 8 Greece 35 Serbia 1 Guernsey 4 Singapore 7 Hong Kong 8 Slovakia 1 Hungary 9 Slovenia 1 622 India 14 South Korea 17 Indonesia 13 Spain 5 278 UK stores Jersey 6 Switzerland 1 Kuwait 1 Taiwan 3 International Latvia 1 Thailand 10 stores Lithuania 1 Turkey 34 Malaysia 4 UAE 5 Malta 3 Ukraine 3 Oman 1 Total International 278 stores 1 store opened in Libya in April 2008 6 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC In food, a good performance saw sales increase from 3.97bn to in particular product, people development, and key growth almost 4.25bn, and value market share remain steady at 4.3%.
areas for the business including M&S Direct and International.
My new role will also give me time to develop and mature talent M&S Money continues to benefit from our partnership with within the business a key task for any Chairman.
At the same HSBC, with 3.8 million customers now signed-up to an M&S time the Board will be able to continue to drive a proven plan Money financial product.
M&S Money now has more than without distraction, in a difficult economic environment.
3.1 million M&S Money credit cards in circulation, 114 bureaux fide change in our stores, and it served 4.8 million travel money Responding to market conditions customers during the year.
Its range of financial products also 2007 08 was a year of two halves, with a strong start followed includes car, home, travel, pet and wedding insurance, as well by a weaker performance.
While we believe our second half as cash ISA and unit trusts like the M&S Ethical Fund.
performance is largely attributable to a deterioration in market conditions, like any retailer there are things we could have done As we take the business forward, we are broadening the plan for better.
For instance, although we sold signicantly more volume, long-term growth.
This will be achieved by continuing to invest in we under-potentialised products in the middle and top price our core UK retail business introducing new goods and services: categories what we call better and best during the key strengthening our UK property portfolio: driving our M&S Direct Christmas period.
business: expanding our international business: and ensuring Plan A our eco plan is integrated in everything we do.
Although we cant predict how severe the current downturn will be, or how long it will last, we expect its impact to be felt I will return to the specic steps were taking to achieve into 2009 10.
However, we believe we have the potential to our objectives on page 7.
First I want to review the changes outperform the competition by planning for modest sales weve made to ensure we are building on a strong foundation.
growth and keeping a tight control on costs and stock levels, Building management capability while at the same time, driving our business using our five On page 4, Lord Burns explains the business rationale for key values of: quality, value, service, innovation and trust.
my appointment to Executive Chairman.
As the decision has Our efforts in the last three years to re-engage with customers attracted much comment, Id like to highlight the immediate so they once again consider M&S as great value for money, and longer-term benets for the business.
will support us in the years ahead.
We believe in developing management talent internally, We have reviewed our pricing architecture in order to attract but this has been difficult for M&S in recent years, with the a broad range of customers.
We are now achieving a wider business experiencing considerable turbulence, followed by price span staying in touch with the supermarkets at entry rapid change since the turn of the millennium.
However, we now levels, while extending our offers above and beyond other have a strong senior team in place, which has an opportunity high street retailers.
It will enable us to ex our good, better to develop its skills with Ian Dyson as Group Finance and and best ranges to respond to changing customer demand, Operations Director, Steven Esom and Kate Bostock appointed as and when the economic situation alters.
as Executive Directors running food and clothing respectively and Steven Sharp continuing in his role as Executive Director We continue to invest in our stores, having completed 70% of Marketing.
We also benefit from an expanded and talented of our store modernisation programme.
We plan to modernise Executive Committee pictured on page 8. an additional 10% of space, and open an additional 5.5% of new space in 2008 09 so that we enter a difficult period for With Ian taking on significant new responsibilities, I can now UK retailing, with the majority of our stores looking their best focus on a more specic set of executive responsibilities, and using every square foot to its full potential.
April 2007 June 2007 September 2007 September 2007 November 2007 Wash at 30 Recycled Saturated fat Big & Tall launches A Hollywood campaign schoolwear levels cut Christmas Offering more than 450 launches M&S announces M&S cuts as much as items online, ranging from The Christmas advertising campaign to wash at M&S becomes the 82% of saturated fat tailoring to knitwear to campaign launches featuring 30C, and to re-label first retailer to launch levels from over 500 casual shirts and trousers, leading man Antonio Banderas almost 75% of its schoolwear made from products including at the same price as alongside the M&S leading clothing ranges to recycled plastic bottles.
sandwiches, ready standard sized clothes.
include the words meals, crisps and Think Climate savoury snacks.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 7 Finally, owning 70% of our assets and having relatively low Additionally, while M&S will always be essentially an own gearing means M&S has one of the strongest balance sheets brand business, we believe we can add significant extra in the retail sector.
Ian will discuss this further on page 9. value, by partnering with guest brands that complement our values.
In the last year, this was predominantly with trusted 1.
Investing in our core UK business technology brands in home, such as Sony and Apple.
In food, where we face strong competition, customers tell us that time Product and convenience are key drivers.
During the summer we will Our core UK business comprises the individual business units therefore trial the sale of up to 350 branded food products of womenswear, lingerie, menswear, kidswear, home and food.
such as Marmite, Heinz tomato ketchup and other branded In 2007 08 we made good progress in each business unit.
must haves in a small number of stores.
We will roll this In womenswear and lingerie, the emphasis was on our out if successful.
segmentation plan, where we claried our sub-brands such as Service and store environments Autograph to help our customers quickly and easily nd what In addition to our products, we have continued to improve theyre looking for.
Further work is needed this year to ensure the quality of our service and store environments.
customers feel comfortable in shopping for their requirements.
At the same time, ranges were continually refreshed so that In service, during 2007 08 our store colleagues sold record customers can always nd something new.
This adds up to volumes, while simultaneously improving their scores in our what we call Every Woman, Every Time where we make it mystery shopping programme achieving an above average easier for our customers, regardless of their age, size and score of 86%.
Its to their credit that we continue to be seen budget to nd clothes that are beautifully made, stylish and as one of the high streets best customer service providers.
offer great value for money.
Weve invested behind the scenes in our IT and logistics Work to segment our sub-brands was also central to the infrastructure in order to maintain service efficiency.
In 2007 08, kidswear plan, as we took important steps to win back as well as delivering 13% more stock to our stores than in market share.
2006 07, our logistics network responded to a 63% rise in volume from M&S Direct.
The plan has helped us to develop In menswear and home, changing customers perception of faster and more efficient IT systems throughout our business.
value was the focus as we competed hard on opening price For instance, we are introducing new point-of-sale systems, points with home prices at almost 12% below the high street including more than 2,000 new tills and 258 new hand-held average, while improving better and best products for the terminals in-store to make stockchecking easier and more more aspirational shopper.
Ian will discuss this further on page 9.
In food, we delivered against our commitment to provide food While our IT and logistics improvements help support our stores of the highest quality without compromise, with a focus on to run more efficiently, our store modernisation programme is provenance, innovation and health.
improving our shopping environments see page 24.
Brand stretch Our brand is strong, and in 2008 09 we believe we can build 2.
Strengthening the UK property portfolio on the trust it inspires to offer our customers better service and We are undertaking one of the biggest store investment more of what they want through brand stretch.
For instance, by programmes in the UK: modernising and expanding our existing featuring plus sizes online: offering bespoke Made to Measure footage with 70% now complete : increasing the number of shirts for men: and expanding our in-store hospitality options.
stores we have: and ensuring we offer the right stores in the right locations.
We will modernise a further 10% this year.
January 2008 February 2008 April 2008 May 2008 Oxfam Clothes Carrier bag charging Articial colours and Eco factory launch Exchange avourings removed A 5p charge for food M&S suppliers launch two Exchange launches to carrier bags announced, M&S becomes the first retailer eco factories in Sri Lanka.
reduce the 1 million tonnes to be introduced in M&S to remove all artificial colours and They will produce per una and of clothing sent to landfill stores from the beginning flavourings from its entire food Autograph lingerie exclusively each year in the UK, and of May.
All profits to go and soft drinks range.
raise funds for Oxfams work to environmental charity to tackle poverty and injustice.
8 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC In order to achieve the scale of our property plan, in November In 2007 08 we made significant strides against the plan, 2007 we announced that we would open an additional 15% opening 38 new stores, which helped lift sales by 16.8% to 20% more space in the next three to four years.
to 712.9m: and operating profit by 33% to 116.4m.
But, like any business in this market, we need to prioritise costs.
Keeping up momentum on Plan A Although we will continue to invest in our store modernisation Plan A, our five-year eco plan, reached the end of its first and expansion programme, this year we will particularly focus on year in January 2008.
We pledged to meet 100 separate new footage, and modernisations with extensions.
Plan A commitments within five years, and so far weve made progress on 94.
Developing our M&S Direct business M&S Direct covers our e-commerce website: home catalogue: Despite the tough consumer climate, our commitment to Christmas hamper delivery: ower and wine delivery: in-store Plan A remains, because there are compelling moral as ordering service: and Lunch to Go.
During the year it not only well as commercial reasons to do so.
Plan A gives us brand became an important part of our commitment to become a differentiation, and as Al Gore said, a sustainable business multi-channel retailer, but with sales up 60m to 220m, it can be a profitable one.
put us on course to reach our target of 500m annual sales Looking ahead by 2010 11.
The next year will be tough.
We will have to continue to On our e-commerce site in particular relaunched with Amazon challenge ourselves to become more efficient, drive down in March 2007, we have recorded strong growth with visits costs and improve our rate of return.
At the same time we to the website up by nearly 60%, and sales growing ahead must maintain our investment for the long term both in the of the market.
I believe that we have started to achieve this.
We have talented and motivated people: well-priced, 4.
Building an International business quality products: a clear plan: and dedication to understanding Expanding internationally provides strong opportunities to build what our customers want all of which put us in a good a broader revenue base and drive profitable growth in some of position to meet the difficult market conditions that lie ahead.
the worlds most exciting markets.
In November 2007 we set ourselves a target for International to achieve between 15% I would like to pay tribute to all of our staff and suppliers for to 20% of total Group revenues within the next five years their hard work this year.
It has been a tough but rewarding in 2007 08 it contributed 7.9%.
We will do this by exing our experience, and they can take pride in their achievement.
business model so that we expand not just through franchise I would also like to thank Lord Burns for his support as partners, but also on a part-owned and wholly-owned basis.
Chairman over the past two years.
He has guided the Board through some difficult discussions, always having the best We have already signed deals in Europe with two of our existing interests of the Company at heart.
partners, and in India where we will open around 30 to 50 new stores in the next five years.
This is in addition to our plans to enter China on a wholly-owned basis later this year.
Sir Stuart Rose Chief Executive 6 4 8 13 7 1 12 9 10 11 3 5 2 1 Clem Constantine 4 Carl Leaver 6 Ian Dyson 9 Steven Esom 11 Andrew Skinner Director of Property Director of Group Finance and Executive Director Director of and Store International Business Operations Director of Food GM Merchandising Development and Planning 5 Kate Bostock 7 Sir Stuart Rose 10 Tanith Dodge 2 Steve Rowe Executive Director Chief Executive Director of Human 12 Darrell Stein Director of Retail of Clothing Resources Director of 8 Steven Sharp IT and Logistics 3 Nayna McIntosh Executive Director Director of Store of Marketing 13 John Dixon Marketing and Design Director of Home and M&S Direct
