Melrose Industries PLC 36 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken and the opportunities that the Group aims to exploit.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identified and where possible managed suitably.
Each Group business maintains a risk register which is reviewed regularly.
Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Strategic priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new As per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good underperforming manufacturing Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
businesses and businesses, there is a risk that the Group will not succeed in driving strategic operational Focus on acquisition targets that have strong headline fundamentals high quality products, leading improvement strategies improvements to generate value post acquisition or in integrating the newly acquired business market share but are underperforming their potential and ability to generate sustainable cash flows and within the Melrose Group.
In making acquisitions, there is a risk of unforeseen liabilities being profit growth.
discovered which are not known at the time of the due diligence process but which arose in the business before it was acquired.
The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior employees of the Group.
Development of strategic identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having the necessary financing.
Even if an plans, restructuring opportunities, capital expenditure and working capital management.
acquisition is completed, the acquired products and technologies may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investment than anticipated.
The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it acquires.
Ifintegration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle rates are not met.
The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges, or from the identification of additional liabilities not known at the time of the acquisition.
Timing of disposals In line with our strategy and depending where the Group is within the buy, improve and sell Directors are experienced in judging and regularly reviewing the appropriate time in a business cycle for strategic cycle, the expected timing of disposal of companies is considered as a principal risk which disposal to realise maximum value for shareholders.
could have a material impact on the Group strategy.
Further, due to the Groups global operations, Each disposal is assessed on its merits, along with the extent to which indemnities, warranties and there may be a significant impact on timing of disposal due to political and macroeconomic factors.
Depending on the timings of disposals and nature of companies operations there may be long-term liabilities which could be retained by the Group.
Insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at disposal may also affect the Groups financial position.
Operational risk Economic and political risk The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales facilities, in over 50 countries and is Diverse range of companies operating within the Group, within a variety of different industries and affected by global economic conditions particularly in the US and Europe.
Businesses are also countries, which reduces macro-economic and political risks.
affected by government spending priorities and the willingness of governments to commit Regular monitoring of order books and other leading indicators, to ensure the Group and each of its substantial resources.
Current global economic and financial market conditions and the businesses can respond quickly to any adverse trading conditions.
This includes the identification of cost potential for a significant and prolonged global recession, may materially and adversely affect reduction and efficiency measures.
the Groups operational performance, financial condition and could have significant impact on timing of acquisitions and disposals.
A recession may also materially affect customers, suppliers and other parties with which the Group does business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to Group businesses.
Loss of key management The success of the Group is built upon strong management teams.
As a result, the loss of key Succession planning within the Group and its various businesses is co-ordinated via the Nomination personnel can have a significant impact on performance, at least for a time.
The loss of key Committee in conjunction with the Board and includes all Directors and senior employees.
personnel or the failure to plan adequately for succession or develop new talent may impact the The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, particularly those operating within a technical reputation of the Group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
Competition for field, it is dependent on Directors and employees with particular managerial, engineering, or technical personnel is intense and the Group may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified skills.
Appropriate remuneration packages and long-term incentive arrangements are offered in an effort personnel, particularly engineering professionals.
The loss of key employees, the Groups inability to retain such individuals.
to attract new and adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm the Groups business.
Over time, the Groups competitive advantage is defined by the quality of its people: should the Group fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, in time the competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker growth potential or returns in particular with significant restructuring activities undertaken to improve the acquired businesses.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 37 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Strategic priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new As per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good underperforming manufacturing Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Melrose Industries PLC 38 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Strategic priorities Compliance and ethical risk Legal, regulatory and There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both a Group and business unit level.
Consultation intellectual property IP or permits, for example concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group could be with external advisers where necessary.
held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from past or future environmental Development of suitable corporate governance and compliance procedures both at a Group and damage, including potentially significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that business unit level.
any provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation costs will adequately cover these liabilities orcosts.
Protection of rights over trademarks, copyright, patents, designs and trade secrets, where necessary.
The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the Company or Directors.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage and impact our business strategy.
Financial risk Foreign exchange rate Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign exchange market, exchange The Group policy is to protect against the majority of foreign exchange risk which affects cash, via rate fluctuations have and could continue to have a material impact on the reported results.
The financial instruments such ashedging.
Group is exposed to three types of currency risk: transaction risk, translation risk and risk when Protection against specific transaction risks is taken by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
a business that is predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate as average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
Pensions As at 31December 2013, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension plans, with aggregate Each of the Groups key funded pension plans are now closed to new entrants and future service net liabilities of 219.3million on an accounting basis.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset accrual.
Long-term funding arrangements are agreed with each of these plans and reviewed following values or mortality assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, the cost completion of actuarial valuations.
Other pension plans exist within the Group but these are largely of a buyout on a discontinued basis uses more conservative assumptions and is likely to be unfunded plans whereby funding plans are not required and benefit obligations are paid when due.
significantly higher than the accounting deficit.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans assets, Active management of pension plan assets.
such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
Inthe event of a major disposal, that generates significant cash proceeds which are returned tothe shareholders, the Group may be required to make additional cash payments to the plans or provide additional security.
Liquidity The Group has 341.2million of debt as at 31December 2013.
The ability to refinance its Ensure the Company has adequate resources to meet its liabilities by reviewing its rolling forecasts, borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper ensuring there is sufficient headroom within committed bank facilities to cope with market volatility.
Furthermore, in line with the Groups strategy, investment is made in the businesses capital expenditure in excess of depreciation and there is a requirement to assess liquidity and headroom when new businesses are acquired and the Group may be unable to refinance its debt when it falls due.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 39 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Strategic priorities Compliance and ethical risk Legal, regulatory and There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both a Group and business unit level.
held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from past or future environmental D evelopment of suitable corporate governance and compliance procedures both at a Group and damage, including potentially significant remedial costs.
