Evaluation Mitigation Melrose Industries PLC 34 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Risk management Melrose operates in a variety of sectors and countries and is exposed to a wide range of risks and uncertainties from a strategic, operational, compliance and financial perspective.
The Board has approved Risk management framework a formalised but pragmatic Group risk management framework.
The objectives of the Directors and senior The Board is responsible for considering management are to safeguard and Audit Committee recommendations Identifying risks increase the value of the business and and ensuring implementation by The identification and assets of the Group.
Achievement of these management of those recommendations objectives requires the development of it deems appropriate for the business.
management of risks across policies and appropriate internal control the Group are integral to the frameworks to ensure the Groups The Group operates on a fide-centralised Groups strategic objectives.
resources are managed properly and basis and the Board has established an They are vital in helping any key risks are identified and mitigated, organisational structure with clear where possible.
reporting procedures, lines of protect the Groups responsibility and delegated authority, businesses, its people The Board is ultimately responsible for the as depicted in the diagram opposite.
Groups overall system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while A summary of the principal risks and the role of management at a business uncertainties that could impact on the level is to implement the policies adopted Groups performance is shown on pages by the Board.
Further information detailing the internal control and risk management The Audit Committee also monitors the policies and procedures operated within effectiveness of the internal control the Group are shown on pages 64 and processes implemented across the 65 of the Corporate Governancereport.
Group, through a review of the key p. 36 findings presented by the external and View our Risks and uncertainties internal auditors and discussions with senior management.
Identification Evaluation Financial and Risk exposure non-financial risks reviewed and recorded in controlled risks prioritised p. 54 View our Governance overview risk registers Mitigation Analysis Risk owners Risks analysed identified and action for impact plans implemented and probability to determine Robust mitigation gross exposure strategy subject to regular and rigorous review Identification Analysis Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 35 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Board Overall responsibility for risk management Audit Committee Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes Elster Elster Elster Energy Lifting Gas Electricity Water Divisional Senior Managers Operational Managers and Financial Controllers
