RISKS cor AND UNCERTAINTIES MERLIN HAS A PROACTIVE APPROACH TO THE MANAGEMENT OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY OF ITS STRATEGY AND INVOLVES MANAGEMENT ACROSS THE GROUP.
THIS IS AN INTEGRATED BOTTOM UP AND TOP DOWN APPROACH, WITH BUSINESS RISKS IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED AND MONITORED BY THE OPERATING, CENTRAL SUPPORT AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT TEAMS.
THE PROCESS IS OVERSEEN BY THE GROUPS EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS VIA THE GROUPS CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE, WHICH MEETS FOUR TIMES A YEAR.
CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTS ARE CIRCULATED FOR ALL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND MAIN BOARD MEETINGS.
THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE, CHAIRED BY OUR NONEXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, MEETS QUARTERLY AND FOCUSES SPECIFICALLY ON SAFETY RELATED RISKS AND PERFORMANCE.
The Board believes that appropriate processes are in place Competition to monitor and mitigate risks and their potential adverse Merlin competes for consumer time and expenditure with consequences to Merlin.
Such risks are categorised under three other offers in the attractions sector and also with other leisure headings: health, safety and security risks: operational and and recreational activities.
The strength of the Groups brands strategic risks: and financial risks.
and the Groups significant marketing leverage help to mitigate this risk.
The Groups thorough market and competitor Health, safety and security risks research programmes provide insight and understanding of its Merlins number one priority is delivering memorable, safe relative competitive position and its customers expectations experiences to visitors and the Company puts the health, safety and whether their needs are being met.
and welfare of both its customers and employees at the forefront of its operations.
The Groups approach to safety management is General economic environment based upon proactivity and continuous improvement to mitigate The disposable income of customers and their leisure activity this risk.
All incidents are recorded and reviewed to identify any preferences are affected by changes in the general economic trends or issues that might need to be addressed and relevant environment.
The Group regularly engages with its customers learning points are shared across the business.
through research and visitor feedback and acts upon the findings in reviewing its product and service offering to ensure Operational and strategic risks that it provides reasons to visit, compelling and memorable experiences and value for money.
The Groups spread of Brands and offerings businesses across different locations and economies reduces its Merlins brand offerings have been built upon a reputation for exposure to the economic variability of any one country.
innovation, consistency in quality and excellence in delivery.
Revenues may be adversely affected by serious incident, Information technology accident or an occurrence such as a foodborne illness at the IT systems are integral to the Groups operations and secure, Groups restaurants or a problem with an item sold in its retail reliable and resilient IT systems performance is critical to outlets.
Merlin mitigates these risks by maintaining industry Merlins operational delivery and to our financial leading standards of operating procedures and training, safety reporting processes.
and security systems, safety audits and supplier auditing and intelligence.
For example, the Group relies significantly on credit and debit card transactions by customers in many locations and particularly for online bookings.
Our strategy of driving pre-booking transactions via the internet depends upon 24 7 accessibility and guest friendly functionality.
Failure to deliver 34 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES and maintain appropriate systems availability, or to apply strict Seasonality and weather Payment Card Industry controls to card transactions, would Many of Merlins businesses are seasonal and extreme weather hamper the Groups ability to trade and to report on conditions at peak trading times could have an impact on performance.
The Group has business continuity procedures, business performance.
Merlin seeks to maintain a balance in its systems security measures, and procedural controls and portfolio between activities which are broadly indoor and processes in place to mitigate these risks.
The Groups strategy of increasing its geographical spread of businesses, particularly across North America and Key personnel the Asia Pacific region, further reduces the potential impact Merlin is a people business and the Groups performance of this risk.
depends largely on recruiting and retaining its employees and senior managers.
Merlin mitigates the risk of losing key Additionally, Merlin continues to grow its annual pass revenues personnel through innovative recruitment, training and and encourages pre-booked business through online dynamic personal development programmes, proactively managed pricing and targeted promotions.
Each of these strategies succession planning and through incentive schemes, including protects the business from the impact of adverse weather share ownership, to attract, develop, motivate and retain that can influence impulse visits.
Financial risks Legal and regulatory The Groups finance teams manage Merlins financial risks in Merlin operates in many different jurisdictions and must accordance with documented and communicated internal control comply with a variety of international, national, regional and procedures.
All significant financing transactions are authorised by local laws and regulations.
The risk of non-compliance with either the Executive Committee or the Board according to the material laws and regulations is mitigated through the scale of commitment.
The four key financial risks affecting the appointment of specialist legal advisers in every jurisdiction in Group are: which the Group operates or is in the process of developing attractions.
Together with the Group Legal Director, these Credit risk resources ensure that the Board, Executive Committee, other Counterparty credit ratings are regularly monitored, and committees and operational management are kept updated on there is no significant concentration of credit risk with material legal developments and risks and legal and regulatory any single counterparty.
Foreign currency risk New site and attraction developments Merlins borrowings are predominantly denominated in The Groups ability to grow its business is dependent on Sterling, Euros, US Dollars and Australian Dollars to broadly securing new sites in the right locations and on the right terms match the currencies of the underlying business revenues.
as well as on obtaining the necessary planning permissions Merlin keeps its currency exposure under review and mitigates both for existing sites and new developments.
Merlins business this with hedging where it considers this to be appropriate.
development and site search teams are continuously identifying and evaluating options for new site locations, working closely Interest rate risk with developers and planners in key cities and other locations Merlin finances its operations through a combination of debt around the world.
They are building a pipeline of potential and equity.
Merlins debt currently comprises floating rate bank locations to mitigate this risk, whilst existing locations have debt.
The resulting exposure to changing interest rates is developed site master plans to assist the securing of the managed by fixing an appropriate proportion of its bank debt necessary planning approvals.
Through Merlin Magic Making, through the use of interest rate swaps, transacted with its the Groups centre of excellence for innovation, creativity and bank counterparties.
product development, the Group is continually seeking out new and innovative products and means of delivering Liquidity risk memorable experiences to its customers, including Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the through new IP partnerships.
Group are produced frequently and are regularly reviewed to ensure that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a Property and the environment twelve month period.
Financial covenants relating to the With the increased focus on environmental laws and Groups lending facilities include a requirement to maintain regulations in many jurisdictions around the world, the Groups certain ratios of EBITDA to both net interest payable and net ability to operate is subject to meeting local environmental debt, and these are monitored regularly, with certificates of laws and regulations.
There is a clear focus on meeting legal compliance provided to lenders on a quarterly basis.
In requirements, in order to mitigate this risk.
addition, this review process includes reviewing the forecast liquidity position of the Group for at least the next three years.
The Groups ability to maintain its operations at its leasehold sites is dependent on securing periodic lease renewals.
Merlins Property Director works proactively with site management and legal advisors in order to anticipate and manage such risks.
The Groups spread of businesses across different locations and jurisdictions also reduces its exposure to any one site or jurisdiction.
