CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK BOARD Ultimate accountability for ensuring that risk is managed effectively Risk is considered in all strategic decision-making AUDIT COMMITTEE Review the Group Risk Profile annually and On behalf of the Board, the Audit challenge constructively.
Committee has oversight of the risk management process, reviews annually the Group Risk Profile and ensures the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Risk Process.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Reviews the Group Risk Profile annually and PRINCIPAL RISKS AND validates its contents before it is submitted to the Board.
Monitors the ongoing status and UNCERTAINTIES progress of mitigating actions.
As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties every day.
The careful management of risk is, therefore, important to the achievement of our strategic objectives and to sustainable growth for the Group.
GROUP RISK CO-ORDINATOR An annual review of risks is a well established process within This role is undertaken by the Group Internal the Group.
Historically this has been undertaken at Group level Audit Director who consolidates the risks in conjunction with operational management, supported by the identified by operating companies and completion of internal control checklists by senior management managers of each group function into a risk from each country to identify any key risks locally.
In 2013, the register, with key Group risks and mitigating Board commissioned a review of risk and controls supported by actions reported to the Audit Committee staff from Deloitte LLP with specialist experience in this area.
annually in the form of a Group Risk Profile.
Internal Audits role is to review the risk The purpose of this review was: process and provide assurance.
to identify and quantify the key risks for PageGroup to confirm key controls and mitigating factors to establish a plan for rolling out and embedding the process at region country level to further develop the reporting and governance framework The review included interviews with key stakeholders, including Board members and senior managers from the Group functional areas.
The key risks and controls were then summarised in a Group Risk Profile for review by the Executive Committee and then subsequently by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT EMEA UK ASIA PAC AMERICAS This approach is being rolled out across the regional businesses, OF GROUP FUNCTIONS Senior management in the regions identify and supported by the Internal Audit function.
assess key risks and mitigating actions locally and Finance, Marketing, Procurement, IT and HR identify pass to Group Risk Co-ordinator annually.
and assess key risks and mitigating actions and pass to Group Risk Co-ordinator annually.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 45 46 Strategic Report Strategic Report CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES GROUP RISK PROFILE Risk Actions to mitigate risk Risk Actions to mitigate risk Our people We have a strong focus on succession planning at all levels of the business with Macro economic exposure risk We have diversified our business by expansion geographically, by increasing the particular focus on the development of high-performing individuals identified as of downturn number of disciplines in which we specialise, and by establishing three brands to The Groups strategy of organic growth, future leaders.
address the different levels of the recruitment market: the clerical professional sector: Recruitment activity is driven largely by with nearly all senior operational positions the qualified professional market: and the executive search sector.
economic cycles and the levels of business being filled from within, relies on its We continue to have a strategy of filling senior operational positions from within, confidence.
Businesses are less likely to ability to recruit, develop and retain high which is a key part of our retention strategy.
Our employees observe high performers We also continue to balance our business between permanent and temporary need new hires and employees are less performing individuals.
The failure to being rewarded with promotion and know that PageGroup provides sustainable staff in line with the ratio of permanent to temporary in each of the markets in likely to move jobs when they do not have attract and retain employees with the career opportunities.
The temporary business tends to be more resilient in times of confidence in the market so leading to right skill-set, particularly the resignation economic downturn.
Key high performing individuals are identified and have progression plans, recognising reduced recruitment activity.
of key individuals, may adversely affect their specific needs at different stages of their development.
The relatively low fixed cost base allows the Group to scale up and down the Groups operating performance and A substantial proportion of the Groups according to the economic environment, with circa 75% of the Groups cost base financial results.
PageGroup targets its recruitment process to attract and employ high quality people.
profit arises from fees that are contingent being employment related costs, so mitigating the impact of the downturn on upon the successful placement of a We have a strong sense of pride in everything we do, with a strong sense of teamwork Group profitability.
If the client cancels core to PageGroup culture.
This drives determination to succeed, both individually the assignment at any stage in the process, and as a team, increasing the motivation of our staff and making their careers more the Group receives no remuneration.
We have a well established appraisal process where personal development as well as Damage to reputation or We have a process to identify risks, allocate owners and monitor actions with the progress against sales targets is discussed.
PageGroup Brands Internal Audit Function providing assurance over key risks.
Our corporate governance We make significant investments in employee training and development across the framework includes a review of internal controls.
We have comprehensive policies for Our brands are material assets of the Group organisation, including the opportunity for international career development.
Training key areas including Social Media, Data Protection and Information Security.
and maintaining their reputation is key to is aligned at the consultant level, set at a high standard and is both broad based and continued success.
Any event that could We actively monitor media to identify where there are unusually high references to the individually focused to support leaders as they develop through PageGroup.
cause reputational damage is a risk to PageGroup Michael Page name.
We have a clear escalation reporting path so that any We are committed to a competitive pay and benefits structure and use benchmarking PageGroup such as a failure to comply with potential incidents can be managed effectively.
We are supported by FTI Consulting to ensure we remain competitive.
We operate a performance-led culture with bonus legislation, or other regulatory requirements, who provide on-going advice on the protection and management of our brand.
This bonus structure is based on team profitability, or confidential data being lost or stolen.
Other mitigating actions are included under legal compliance and data management.
which has been shown to encourage the retention of high-performing individuals even in economic downturns.
Technology Our technology strategy is a regular focus at Board meetings and at meetings of the We make awards of share options linked to the Groups financial performance to Executive Committee to ensure that it supports the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Group is reliant on a number of key senior employees which provide a long-term retention incentive and align their A programme of work has commenced to update the IT infrastructure and deliver a IT systems to provide its services to motivations with those of our shareholders.
new operating system and related applications.
The current IT PageGroup employment contracts contain protection in the event of an employee infrastructure is complex and ageing, The Group has a Disaster Recovery Plan which includes the storing of back-up leaving, which, at a senior level, usually contain notice periods and provisions relating increasing the risk of significant systems data off-site and the ability to quickly establish disaster recovery sites should there to confidentiality and non-solicitation.
A serious system disruption, loss be a critical systems failure.
The performance of external technology suppliers is of data or security breach could have a continually monitored to ensure business critical services are maintained.
material impact on our operations and on Shift in business model We actively monitor developments in the recruitment industry and have a pro-active the Groups financial results.
The emergence of new technology platforms including, for example, the The use of social media, newspapers, the Internet and other forms of media involve growing use of social media, may lead additional and highly skilled internal resources for clients and so it may prove less costly IT Transformation and Change This project is reviewed regularly by both the Board and Executive Committee to to increased competition and pressure for PageGroup to provide the service.
ensure that it is on target.
The roll-out will be done in stages so that there is limited The new suite of operating software on margins which may adversely affect interruption to the business.
Any issues that arise during the pilot in Boston will We have access to an extensive, qualified candidate database through highly trained and related applications was piloted in the Groups results if it is unable to be resolved at that location before it is implemented elsewhere in North America and often specialised consultants.
the Boston office from May 2013 and is respond effectively.
and then on to other global offices.
The plan includes a significant investment in planned to be rolled out further during We partner with the large providers, such as LinkedIn and Facebook, to ensure that staff training.
There is a risk of disruption to we use this form of media to enhance our value to clients.
All consultants are trained in the business should the software fail to The risks to the delivery of a high-quality service and the consequent impacts upon utilising the benefits of social media.
function adequately or if staff are not our business performance are mitigated by the greater part of the recruitment service properly trained.
If the system failed it not being system dependent, for example, candidate interviews, telephone activity, could affect our ability to provide a highclient meetings, etc.
quality recruitment service to our clients and could affect our operational and financial performance.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 47 48 Strategic Report Strategic Report
