Principal risks and uncertainties Prioritizing key risks and risk management Group as a provider of software products The Group, in common with all businesses, With regard to the Groups objectives, the could be affected by risks which could have board and executive management team and associated services.
Please also refer to a material effect on its short and longer-term have identified and prioritized the key the section on internal controls within the financial performance.
These risks could risks and reviewed the controls in place corporate governance report on pages 22 cause actual results to differ materially from for management to mitigate those risks.
to 27. forecasts or historic results.
Where possible, the Group seeks to mitigate these risks A full risk register has been developed for Principal risks have been identified in the through its system of internal controls but ongoing evaluation and mitigation and the following five categories Products, Go this can only provide reasonable assurance following are the key risks, potential impacts To Market Models, Employees, Competition and not absolute assurance against and mitigations that are relevant to the and Systems and Infrastructure.
Products Risk Potential impact ended 30 April 2013 we appointed a new Investment in research and innovation in Insufficient focus on key research and General Manager responsible for Product product development is essential to meet development projects may damage the Management, Product Development, customer and partner requirements in order long-term growth prospects of the Group.
Marketing and Customer Care, with the remit to drive revenue growth and corporate Poor cross-selling of Micro Focus products will to improve the interaction between Product performance.
In addition, the ability to reduce the prospects for additional revenue Management, Product Development, Sales cross-sell the Micro Focus product set is an streams going forward.
With regard to cross selling, opportunity to exploit additional customer sales teams receive training to cover selling opportunities.
Mitigation techniques for the full portfolio of products, Mitigations Improving our Product and sales incentives and training have been Management was a key focus area in the year further improved to encourage enhanced ended 30 April 2012 and continued to be so collaboration across product sets.
In the year Go to market models Risk Potential impact Mitigation For the Group to succeed in meeting revenue Poor execution of go to market plans may Revenue plans are supported by a range and growth targets it requires successful go to limit the success of the Group by targeting of measures to monitor and drive market models across the full product the wrong customers through the wrong improvements in go to market operating portfolio, with effective strategies and plans channels and using the wrong product models.
In addition to quarterly business to exploit channel opportunities and focus the offerings.
reviews with all geographies and monthly sales force on all types of customer categories.
reviews with regional presidents, the President In addition, effective go to market models of Sales participates in weekly management will be more successful if accompanied by team meetings to review sales performance compelling Micro Focus brand awareness and go to market priorities.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Go to market models continued Mitigation continued In addition, brand awareness programmes are In the year ended 30 April 2013 we Customer sales cycles are reviewed regularly in place and reviewed on an ongoing basis to introduced an internal sales certification and a bid review process is in place to draw on differentiated and consistent PR programme to improve the level of expertise monitor and maximize customer revenue plans across key geographies.
These are across our sales force.
This programme will be opportunities.
In addition to sales supported by targeted analyst relations to fully rolled out in the coming year.
In addition performance reviews, marketing and product reach and raise Micro Focus brand awareness we have launched the Micro Focus Sales development programmes are assessed through key marketplace influencers.
Brand Academy, a new initiative, through which we regularly to optimize levels of qualified building is also supported by a growing will be hiring an additional 50 graduate sales pipeline and ensure that marketing customer reference programme and online representatives to enhance our sales capability programmes are supported by appropriate programmes such as effective search engine and train up new talent with the potential to product offerings.
optimization, use of social media and progress within the sales organization.
A series of measures are in place to focus the direction of the sales force towards a broad range of customer categories.
These measures include detailed bid management, tailored quota targets and robust presales management.
Employees Risk Potential impact Mitigation The retention and recruitment of highly skilled Failure to retain and develop skill sets, The Group has policies in place to help ensure and motivated employees, at all levels of the particularly in sales and research and that it is able to attract and retain employees Group, is critical to the success and future development may hinder the Groups sales with the required skills.
These policies include growth of the Group in all countries in which and development plans.
Weak organizational training, career development and long-term it currently operates.
Employees require clear alignment and inadequate incentivization may financial incentives.
Leadership training business objectives, and a well communicated lead to poor performance and instability.
schemes are in place to support management vision and values, for the Group to achieve development and succession plans.
At the start of the year ended 30 April 2012 a alignment and a common sense of corporate purpose among the workforce.
renewed vision and corporate objectives was shared throughout the organization and continues to be reinforced through regular employee communications plans and performance reviews.
Competition Risk Potential impact Mitigation Comprehensive information about the Failure to understand the competitive Group product plans contain analysis of markets in which Micro Focus operates is landscape adequately and thereby identify competitive threats and subscriptions to required for the Group to assess competitive where competitive threats exist may damage industry analyst firms are leveraged to better risks effectively and to perform successfully.
the successful sales of the Groups products.
understand market dynamics and competitor strategies.
In addition, customer contact programmes are mined for competitive intelligence.
Systems and Infrastructure Risk Mitigation The Business Change function provides Adequate investment is required to develop Group policies are in place to review the programme and project management support effective systems and infrastructure that will ongoing additional investment required to on key systems and infrastructure projects in support the ambitions of the Company.
enhance key IT systems and processes.
order to ensure that the impact of planned Management information must be of Management information draws on changes to systems and infrastructure is sufficient quality to allow effective and timely comprehensive product reports and functional properly assessed and the implementation of decision making.
plans to extract the key metrics needed to projects is effectively managed.
manage the Group at a corporate, regional Potential impact and product level.
Ineffective Micro Focus systems and infrastructure could lead to an unstable platform for the Groups future success, and deliver inadequate management information.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
