Our risks Like any other business, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are inuenced by both internal and external factors, often outside our control.
In this section, we describe the principal risks that could have a material effect on the Groups business activities.
Risk factors Management of risk We provide information on the nature of Our risk management activity is directed the risk, actions taken to mitigate risk by the Executive Management exposure and an indication of whether Committee, led by the Chief Executive the type of risk is increasing, reducing or officer, and is monitored by the Head of remains largely unchanged.
Not all Risk and Internal Audit.
Risk registers are compiled, and periodically updated, potential risks are listed below.
Some risks are excluded because the Board which map the nature of the risks considers them not material to the relative to their likelihood of occurrence Group as a whole.
Our processes aim to and severity and associated trends.
provide reasonable, not absolute, Individual management committee assurance that the risks significant to our members are assigned responsibility for business have been identied and devising risk treatment plans to addressed.
Additionally, there may be eliminate, minimise or transfer risks.
The risks that are not reasonably foreseeable Chief Executive officer and members of at the date of this report for the Group to the Executive Management Committee undertake regular reviews of the risk assess fully their potential impact on the business.
The order in which risks are register and progress with risk presented below is not indicative of the management plans.
The Board has relative potential impact on the Group.
overall responsibility for the risk The potential effect of these risks may management process and for ensuring be material to the Groups business by that our risks are managed appropriately having an impact on revenues, profits, and, either directly or through the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness net assets and financial resources.
Such risks also have the potential to impact on of the Groups risk management the Groups reputation.
It is often difficult processes and other internal controls.
to assess with accuracy the likely impact The Head of Risk and Internal Audit of an event on reputation, as any provides the Audit Committee with a damage may often be disproportionate quarterly update of risk management to the events actual financial impact.
In activity and the risk register.
general, the geographical spread of the Group provides a natural hedge against many of the principal risks identied on the following pages.
26 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Our risks Governance Group financial statements Further information Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Events that Sustained levels of occupancy and room rates The Group has in place contingency and recovery Stable adversely impact can be adversely affected by events that reduce plans to enable it to respond to major incidents domestic or domestic or international travel.
Such events may or crises.
international travel include acts of terrorism, war or perceived increased risk of armed conict, epidemics, natural disasters, increased cost of travel and industrial action.
These events may be localised to a particular country, region or could have a wider international perspective, especially where a large airport, for example, is a major hub for worldwide travel.
Reduced demand will impact on revenues and operational profitability.
Political and Major events affecting either economic or Many of these risks are beyond the control Stable economic political stability on a global and regional level of the Group and the time-frames for developing developments represent an exposure to the Group.
Economic appropriate risk management approaches can events could include recessionary pressures often be very short.
which would have an impact on the Groups Management is continually vigilant to political revenues, operating costs and profitability.
and economic developments and seeks to Political risks include changes in the regulatory identify emerging risks at the earliest environment in which the Groups business opportunity.
The Group implements ownership activities operate, including restrictions on the structures, internal controls and takes such steps repatriation of funds or control over the available to it to minimise these exposures to the ownership of assets.
The hotel industry The hotel industry operates in an inherently The Group has management systems in place Stable supply and cyclical market place.
A weakening of demand, or designed to create exibility in the operating cost demand cycle an increase in market room supply, may lead to base so as to optimise operating profits in volatile downward pressure on room rates which in turn trading conditions, such as the profit protection would lead to a negative effect on operating plans initiated during previous market downturns.
Quality of product We compete based on a number of factors, We have a preventative maintenance programme Increasing including quality and consistency of product.
Lack coupled with regular asset reviews at each hotel.
of investment in the furnishings and plant could In addition, our significant asset management have a significant impact on the revenues that programme is refurbishing and repositioning key the hotels could earn.
As supply increases, hotels, to optimise their revenues.
particularly in our key gateway cities, business may be lost to newer hotels, or rates may have to be cut to remain competitive.
Increasing Our hotel rooms are booked through a number The Group continues to refresh its marketing Increasing dependence on of distribution channels, one of which is OTAs, strategy and has committed significant online travel which tend to have higher commission rates resources in 2014 including extensive agents OTAs than more traditional distribution channels, and enhancements of its direct channel technology are taking an increasing share of bookings across and other marketing tools.
This may impact our profitability.
In addition, over time, consumers may develop loyalties to the OTAs rather than to our brand.
27 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Human resources Execution of the Groups strategy depends on The Group has appropriate systems for Stable its ability to attract, develop and retain recruitment, reward and compensation and employees with the appropriate skills, performance management.
Labour relations are experience and aptitude.
actively managed on a regional and local basis.
The Group has a strong service culture supported by recognition systems, compensation and benets arrangements, training and development programmes.
Management An element of the Groups strategy is to The Group has developed a management team in Stable agreements selectively increase the number of management the Middle East region that has the necessary contracts to operate hotels owned by thirdskills and resources to pursue this element of parties, primarily focusing on the Middle East the Groups strategy.
In this regard, the Group faces acquiring new contracts has been implemented competition from established global and regional and a priority is to ensure that the critical roles are brands.
Successful execution of this strategy will lled and operational management is integrated depend on the Groups ability to identify suitable into the Group system.
management opportunities, secure contracts on suitable contractual terms and ensure that contractual commitments are met and retained going forward.
Joint ventures and The Group has entered into a number of joint For these joint ventures, the Group has appointed Stable subsidiaries with ventures in certain markets and is therefore representatives who are assigned responsibilities minority subject to the risk of non-performance on the to manage the relationship with the joint venture shareholders part of the partners, especially when the partners in order to enhance the alignment of strategic objectives of the partners are not business objectives.
Treasury risk The Group trades in numerous international Foreign currency transactions exposure is Stable currencies but reports its financial results in primarily managed through funding of sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange purchases from operating income streams rates may either be accretive or dilutive to the arising in the same currency.
Interest rate Groups reported trading results and the hedges are used to manage interest rate risk to Groups net asset value.
Unhedged interest rate the extent that the perceived cost is considered exposures pose a risk to the Group when to outweigh the benefit from the exibility of interest rates rise, resulting in increased costs variable rate borrowings.
of funding and an impact on overall financial The Group actively monitors the need and timing performance.
Credit risk arises from the risk of of such hedges.
Investments in short-term financial loss if a financial counterparty fails to instruments are with counterparties approved by meet its contractual obligations in respect of its the Board taking into account the counterpartys deposits or short term investments.
credit rating and a maximum limit as to the amount that may be deposited.
28 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Our risks Governance Group financial statements Further information Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Tax risk The Groups businesses operate in numerous tax The Group seeks to minimise tax risk by ensuring Stable jurisdictions.
Changes in tax laws in any of those that appropriate accounting systems, processes jurisdictions may have adverse consequences on and internal controls are in place to ensure that the Groups profits.
taxes are calculated accurately and paid on a timely basis, in compliance with tax legislation.
A Similarly the Groups interpretation and co-operative approach is undertaken in respect of application of various tax laws may be challenged.
provision of information to tax authorities during Tax authorities in many jurisdictions are increasing tax audits and investigations, and external tax their focus on corporate tax affairs in order to advisors are engaged in each tax jurisdiction maximise tax receipts.
where necessary to advise on such matters, and to give guidance on the implementation of any changes in tax legislation.
Full review of tax implications is carried out prior to undertaking any transactions involving new activities or structural changes, and external tax planning advice is obtained where appropriate.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular updates on tax management issues.
Compliance and The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is The Group continues to monitor changes in the Increasing litigation exposed to the risk of non-compliance with regulatory environment in which it operates, increasingly complex statutory and regulatory identify its compliance obligations and implement requirements.
In addition, the Group may be at appropriate compliance programmes.
The Group risk of litigation from various parties with which it has processes in place to manage the risks interacts, either through direct contractual associated with its various contractual arrangements or from the provision of services.
These include comprehensive In certain countries where the Group operates, policies for ethics and business conduct, particularly in emerging markets, local practices anticorruption and bribery, gifts and hospitality and the legal environment may be such that it is and charitable donations.
There is training for sometimes difficult for the Group to enforce its relevant staff.
Safety, health and As a significant property owner and operator of The Group has established and maintains health Stable environment hotels in multiple jurisdictions, the Group is and safety and environmental management exposed to a wide range of regulatory systems that are aligned with the requirements requirements and obligations concerning the of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
By working to health and safety of employees, visitors and British standards, the Group is committed to guests.
Failure to implement and maintain working to the highest standards of health and sufficient controls regarding health and safety safety and to an internationally accredited issues could expose the Group to significant system.
sanctions, both civil and criminal, financial penalties and reputational damage.
Intellectual Future development will, in part, be dependent Substantial investment continues to be made in Stable property rights and on the recognition of the Groups brands and protecting the Groups brands from misuse and brands perception of the values inherent in those brands.
infringement, by way of trade mark registration, Consistent delivery of product quality is vitally enforcement of property rights and domain name important to inuencing consumer preference protection.
Management seeks to ensure and creating and maintaining value perception.
maintenance of standards by developing strong Historically the Group has mainly operated working relationships with hotel owners and properties which it owns.
The trend towards undertaking regular monitoring of service managing third-party properties, primarily in the delivery.
Middle East region increases the risk that product quality may not be delivered in accordance with the Groups standards.
This may increase the Groups exposure to litigation, increase risks to reputation, reduce revenues and become an inhibiting factor on ongoing development.
29 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Property The Groups strategy is to be both owner and The Group continues to develop property specic Stable ownership manager of hotel properties.
Growth of the Groups asset management plans which focus on the portfolio of owned assets is dependent on the capital requirements of each property in terms of availability of suitable development sites, regular maintenance and product enhancement.
acquisitions and access to funding.
A limit on such The Group has rigorous management systems to opportunities may have a negative impact on future monitor major capital projects to ensure they are operational profitability.
Property ownership properly managed and delivered on time and within requires ongoing investment in the form of budgeted parameters.
preventative maintenance, refurbishment, significant capital expenditure and product development.
There is also the possible loss of capital due to uninsured events and reductions in asset values as a result of demographic changes in the markets in which the properties are located.
Insurance Not all risks are insured, either because the cover is The Groups insurance requirements are regularly Stable not available in the market or the cover is not reviewed to ensure that the cover obtained is available on commercially viable terms.
The Group appropriate to its risk prole and after taking into is exposed to the risk of cover not being continually account the level of retained risk the Board available.
Availability may be inuenced by factors considers to be appropriate, relative to the cost of outside the Groups control, which could reduce cover available in the market place.
Insurance the markets underwriting capacity, breadth of covers are arranged with a variety of insurers to policy coverage or simply make the cost of cover ensure that arrangements are not overly too expensive.
The Group could be exposed to concentrated on a limited number of carriers.
uninsured third-party claims, loss of revenue or Choice of insurance carriers is dependent on reduction of xed asset values which may, in turn, satisfaction of a number of relevant factors have an adverse effect on Group profitability, cash including a review of the insurers security ows and ability to satisfy banking covenants.
Information In order to maintain its competitiveness within the The Group invests in systems that are tried and Increasing Technology market place the Group will need to ensure its IT tested so that as much operational resilience as systems and systems deliver the necessary trading platforms possible, cost considerations permitting can be infrastructure and provide management with accurate and timely obtained.
Further investment is being made to information.
remove legacy technology to ensure robust, secure and compliant technology systems and services are delivered.
Crisis management and disaster recovery plans are in place for critical systems.
Management reviews IT requirements and risks to prioritise implementation of changes and improvements.
Data privacy and A significant proportion of the Groups operating The Group is in the process of refreshing and Increasing protection revenue is received from customers through credit improving its operating controls to ensure that card transactions and the Group has an obligation appropriate IT systems, resource and structures to keep secure customers credit card and other are in place to ensure continued compliance with personal details.
Non-compliance with data privacy Data privacy and protection regulations.
and protection regulations, which differ by Furthermore this is being reviewed by an external jurisdiction and are an area of increased focus by party for assurance that will meet with best regulators, could result in fines and or other practice requirements.
Training is provided and damages including reputational damage being regularly updated to all relevant staff.
incurred particularly in the event a data breach should occur.
Additionally, the payment card industry requires the Group to comply with data security standards PCI-DSS as a condition in credit card merchant agreements.
Failure to comply with these regulatory and contractual requirements and standards could result in penalties and withdrawal of credit card payment facilities.
By order of the Board Wong Hong Ren Chief Executive Officer 20 February 2014 30 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
