Anite plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report Letter from the Chairman David Hurst-Brown, who is our Senior Independent Director and Dear Shareholder Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is approaching the ninth anniversary of his appointment.
He therefore will no longer be considered as independent under the rules of the UK Corporate The reports in this section of our Annual Governance Code and as a result will step down from these positions Report will explain how the Board and after the Annual General Meeting AGM.
As a result we have spent part of this year seeking his successor.
The report of the Nomination each of its committees function and the Committee on page 41 details the process we undertook to do this, issues that they have been addressing but I am delighted that on 2 July we were able to announce that Patrick fide Smedt will be joining us as Remuneration Committee Chairman and over the last 12 months.
Senior Independent Director after the AGM in September.
I welcome him to the Board and look forward to working with him.
I am also delighted We believe strongly in good governance and take compliance with that David has decided to remain on the Board and that we will continue the various aspects of the UK governance framework seriously and, to benefit from his considerable experience both of the City and also of as reported below, we are fully compliant with the UK Corporate Anite gained over the last nine years.
Governance Code 2010: however we are not slavish to this.
We believe that good governance is not about ticking boxes.
It is about ensuring We welcome interaction with shareholders throughout the year, not that a culture exists throughout the organisation for allowing ideas just at our AGM which is scheduled for September.
The Chief Executive to be raised and debated, risks to be identified and mitigated and and the Group Finance Director and Company Secretary conduct decisions taken at the appropriate level in an objective way.
most of the face to face interaction with shareholders, but I and the other Non-Executives are available should shareholders require Fundamental to achieving this is the leadership shown by the Board.
Over the last three years we have had the benefit of a stable Board, which has functioned well.
Our Board is deliberately relatively small in Clay Brendish CBE number, which we believe is appropriate for the size of the organisation Non-Executive Chairman and also allows constructive challenging debate at Board meetings.
Having a small Board therefore requires that each Board member brings a wide range of complementary skills and for that reason we take Board appointments very seriously.
Anite plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements training needs with the Chairman and attended such seminars and courses We believe that good governance is not in order to ensure he can fully meet the obligations of his position and about ticking boxes.
It is about ensuring keep up to date with Corporate Governance requirements.
that a culture exists throughout the In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council published a new organisation for allowing ideas to be edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, effective from the Companys next financial year the New Code.
The changes largely raised and debated, risks to be identified relate to Accountability, Part C of the Code, which covers areas such as and mitigated and decisions taken.
financial and business reporting, audit committees and auditors.
The intention of the Board is that the Company will fully comply with the changes introduced in the New Code with effect from 1 May 2013.
These changes will not affect the existing structure but will require changes in reporting in some areas.
During the year there have been a number of other developments which Corporate Governance Code will impact on the Companys future disclosure requirements, namely: Government changes on narrative reporting: The Board is committed to the highest standards of good corporate governance.
It follows an approach that complies with provisions of the mandatory carbon reporting: and new regulations on remuneration.
UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2010 the Code.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the Code.
In addition we await the outcome of the recent Financial Reporting The Board considers that Anite has, throughout the year, fully complied Council consultation on going concern and liquidity risk.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and the relevant provisions set out in sections A to E. Last year we reported that we did not fully All these changes will be applicable for our financial year ending 30 April 2014 but, where appropriate, we have attempted to go some way comply with the requirement B.
4.2 for the Chairman to regularly agree with each Director his training and development needs.
This has been towards reflecting some of these changes in this years Annual Report.
rectified this year and each Director has presented and discussed his Board and Committee composition Anite Board Clay Brendish, Non-Executive Chairman Christopher Humphrey, Chief Executive Richard Amos, Group Finance Director David Hurst-Brown, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Clifford, Non-Executive Director Paul Taylor, Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Paul Taylor, Chairman David Hurst-Brown, Chairman Clay Brendish, Chairman David Hurst-Brown Clay Brendish Christopher Humphrey Nigel Clifford Paul Taylor David Hurst-Brown Nigel Clifford Paul Taylor Nigel Clifford Page 43 for the Audit Committee report Page 46 for the Remuneration Committee report Page 41 for the Nomination Committee report
