Risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks The Risk Committee met on four occasions in that affect the Company, together with the FY 2013 and continues to meet on a quarterly key mitigating activities in place to manage basis to review the key risks facing the those risks.
This does not represent a business.
Key risks identified are reviewed comprehensive list of all of the risks that the and assessed by the Risk Committee in terms Company faces, but focuses on those that are of their likelihood and impact, within the currently considered to be of most concern.
Groups Key Risk Heat Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
The processes that are used to identify and manage risks are described in the Internal Control and Risk Management statement on pages 45 and 46.
Actively managing potential risks Risk management process Overall Board responsibility, supported by Risk and Assurance Functions Regular detailed risk reviews by Risk Committee Risks identified, assessed and prioritised Risks mapped to controls Residual risks prioritised Confirmed with Executive, currently in place for mitigation Audit Committee and Board Existing controls enforced and tested Suggested action plans agreed to bridge gaps Remedial action plans implemented Options for controls identified and costed Executive held accountable Plans approved by Executive, Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Board Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Market risks Risk description Mitigating activities Consumer taste and Social and demographic changes are driving In FY 2013, the Company conducted a major piece of brand management the long-term growth in eating-out while at consumer research, interviewing 8,000 consumers about the same time leading to a steady decline 14,000 leisure occasions.
This research examined macro in the sales of on-trade drinks without economic trends, consumer dynamics, competitor and food.
These changes, together with other internal brand positioning and the Companys strengths developments in consumer taste may reduce and weaknesses.
The business is in the process of rolling the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers brands to out the outputs from this project to refine further its brand its customers, especially if the Company fails positioning and ensure the portfolios continued relevance to anticipate and identify these changes and for guests.
This is discussed in detail in the Business respond to them adequately and promptly.
The Company uses an online guest satisfaction survey to collect customer feedback.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated customer insight team to ensure that the relevance to customers of the Companys brands is maintained.
Net promoter score is the key measure of success in this area, and this has improved from 55% in FY 2012 to 59% in FY 2013.
Pricing and market changes External influences, such as changes in the Mitchells & Butlers business is focused on the long-term general economic climate or competitor potential of the eating-out market.
The Company owns activity, could have a detrimental effect on sites across the UK with a wide spectrum of customer customers spending patterns and therefore offers targeted at different consumer groups and leisure the Companys revenue, profitability and occasions.
This range allows the Company to respond to consequently the value of its assets.
changes in consumer expenditure either by flexing our offerings or by substituting a different brand at a particular location.
This activity is supported by dedicated Sales and Margin Managers and Asset Planning teams which analyse and evaluate a range of information including that in respect of competitors.
Operational risks Risk description Mitigating activities Cost of goods price Increases in the price of goods for resale Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale to drive competitive increases including and utilities costs as a result of increases in cost advantage and collaborates with suppliers to increase energy price increases global demand and uncertainty of supply efficiencies in the supply chain.
The fragmented nature in producing nations can have a significant of the food supply industry on the world commodity impact on the cost base consequently markets gives the Company the opportunity to source impacting margins.
products from a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
The Company continually evolves the composition of menus and retail prices in order to optimise value to the customer as well as profits for the Company.
The energy procurement strategy seeks to reduce the risk of cost increases and uncertainty over energy prices by a rolling programme of short and mediumterm purchases against forecast requirements.
A dedicated energy management team is responsible for optimising energy usage across the organisation by promoting energy efficient working practices via training and educational programmes and by the installation of energy efficient equipment.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks Risk description Mitigating activities People planning and Mitchells & Butlers business has a strong The Company makes significant investment in training development customer focus, and as such it is important to ensure that its people have the right skills to perform that it is able to attract, retain, develop and their jobs successfully.
Furthermore, an employee survey motivate the best people with the right is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction capabilities throughout the organisation.
and engagement and compare it with other companies as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured succession planning.
Staff turnover is the key measure of success in this area, and this has improved from 82% in FY 2012 to 78% in FY 2013. Business continuity and Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans that crisis management drink supply chain and the key IT systems are tested and refreshed regularly.
underlying the business to serve its customers efficiently and effectively.
Supply chain interruption, IT system failure or crises such as terrorist activity or the threat of disease pandemic might restrict sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
Finance risks Risk description Mitigating activities Borrowing covenants There are risks that borrowing covenants are The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
breached because of circumstances such as: The finance team conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the Treasury Committee, the roles of i a change in the economic climate leading which include ensuring that the Board Treasury Policy to reduced cash inflows: or is adhered to, monitoring its operation and agreeing ii a material change in the valuation of the appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
Pension fund deficit There is a risk that the pension fund Mitchells & Butlers maintains a close dialogue with the deficit increases because of poor Trustees of the pension schemes and three of the 12 investment performance, lower long-term Trustees are appointed by the Company.
The Company bond yields or increased life expectancy, has made significant additional contributions to reduce leading to unexpected increases in the funding deficit.
funding requirements on the Company.
The triennial actuarial valuation carried out at 31 March 2010 resulted in a deficit of 400m.
The 2013 valuation is currently ongoing.
Regulatory risks Risk description Mitigating activities A major health and safety failure could Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of Failure to operate lead to illness, injury or loss of life or health and safety checks both within its restaurants and safely and legally significant damage to the Companys pubs and throughout the supply chain.
The dedicated or a brands reputation.
Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20
