Risk management We are exposed to risks and uncertainties that may have an impact on our future performance and financial results, as well as on our ability to meet certain social and environmental objectives.
Further details of our risk management framework and approach is set out in the report of the DLC audit committee on pages 66 to 68.
The table below provides selected measures to highlight our performance in these areas.
There have been no significant changes to our risk profile during 2013.
Our most significant strategic risks include: Risk Monitoring Mitigation The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and Our strategic focus on low-cost production and growing selling prices are subject to significant volatility.
New capacity markets, with consistent investment in our operating additions are usually in large increments which, combined We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity ensures that we remain competitive.
with product substitution e. g. electronic alternatives and capacity as well as trends and developments in our own alternative packaging solutions and increasing environmental product markets and potential substitutes.
We invest in research and development activities to improve considerations, have a significant impact on the supplyexisting processes and to identify new markets and new products.
demand balance and hence on market prices.
We continue to actively monitor and adapt to changes in the environment in which we operate.
Our geographical diversity and decentralised management We operate in a number of geographical locations in structure, utilising local resources in countries in which we We engage in regular formal and informal interaction with countries with differing political, economic and legal systems.
operate, reduces our exposure to any specific jurisdiction.
the authorities to ensure we remain abreast of changes and In less developed regions, political upheaval, changes in laws, new developments.
The Boards have established limits on exposure to any nationalisation or expropriation of assets could have a material particular geographic environment and new investments are impact on our operations in those locations.
We perform thorough country risk assessments and our subject to rigorous strategic and commercial evaluation.
return requirements on investments are adjusted to take country risk into consideration.
We have adequate insurance in place to cover material property damage, business interruption and liability risks.
We operate large facilities, often in remote locations.
Our management system provides ongoing monitoring of all The ongoing safety of our people and sustainable A structured maintenance programme is in place under the operations to ensure they meet the requisite standards and operation of our facilities is critical to the success of auspices of the Group technical director.
Emergency preparedness and response procedures are in place and subject to periodic drills.
We constantly monitor international market prices and, Our relatively high levels of vertical integration and access where appropriate, have cost pass through mechanisms in TM Paper for recycling and wood accounts for approximately to our own 100% FSC certified wood in Russia and South place with customers.
one-third of our input costs.
We are committed to acquiring Africa serve to mitigate this risk.
fibre from sustainable sources and avoiding the use of any We have built a strong forestry management team in Russia All of our mills have chain-of-custody certificates in place illegal or controversial supply.
and South Africa to actively monitor environmental influences ensuring that wood procured is from non-controversial sources.
impacting our owned sources of fibre.
Energy and related input costs comprise approximately oneWe continue to invest in our energy infrastructure at our key We monitor our energy usage levels, emission levels and third of our variable costs.
Increasing energy costs, and the operating facilities in order to improve our energy efficiency usage of renewable energy.
consequential impact thereof on both chemical and transport and electricity self-sufficiency as well as to reduce our We benchmark our energy costs against external sources.
costs, may impact our profit margins.
12 Integrated report and financial statements 2013 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
indd 12 2014 03 10 3:00 PM Risk Monitoring Mitigation The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and Our strategic focus on low-cost production and growing selling prices are subject to significant volatility.
E405 million with product substitution e. g. electronic alternatives and capacity as well as trends and developments in our own alternative packaging solutions and increasing environmental product markets and potential substitutes.
capital expenditure in 2013 We invest in research and development activities to improve considerations, have a significant impact on the supplyexisting processes and to identify new markets and new products.
Our geographical diversity and decentralised management Operate in We operate in a number of geographical locations in structure, utilising local resources in countries in which we We engage in regular formal and informal interaction with countries with differing political, economic and legal systems.
the authorities to ensure we remain abreast of changes and In less developed regions, political upheaval, changes in laws, 30 countries new developments.
Our management system provides ongoing monitoring of all The ongoing safety of our people and sustainable A structured maintenance programme is in place under the operations to ensure they meet the requisite standards and 0.78 TRCR operation of our facilities is critical to the success of auspices of the Group technical director.
We constantly monitor international market prices and, Own wood up to Our relatively high levels of vertical integration and access where appropriate, have cost pass through mechanisms in TM Paper for recycling and wood accounts for approximately to our own 100% FSC certified wood in Russia and South place with customers.
fibre from sustainable sources and avoiding the use of any We have built a strong forestry management team in Russia 54% All of our mills have chain-of-custody certificates in place illegal or controversial supply.
and South Africa to actively monitor environmental influences of total requirements ensuring that wood procured is from non-controversial sources.
90% electricity self-sufficiency consequential impact thereof on both chemical and transport and electricity self-sufficiency as well as to reduce our We benchmark our energy costs against external sources.
