STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group adopts a formal risk identification and management process designed to ensure that risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and mitigated to the extent that is possible.
The tables below summarise, in the opinion of the Board, the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Significant Financial institutions may reduce the quantum of The Group continues to focus on building strong worsening in lending and or tighten their acceptance criteria for relationships with providers to ensure the Group is able financial markets customers seeking to obtain credit.
Financial to provide solutions to the needs of providers and to institutions may reduce their reliance on the retail maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire market to obtain funds or may have lower cost funds customers in a cost effective manner.
available from other sources including the Bank of England to support their business activities.
Providers may increase their focus on customer retention rather than acquisition.
These factors may reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Reduction of Providers may consolidate, withdraw their products The Group continues to focus on building strong providers from price comparison websites or reduce their relationships with providers to ensure the Group is able customer acquisition activity via price comparison to provide solutions to the needs of providers and to websites.
This may reduce competition for business, maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire customer choice, Group revenue and the customer customers in a cost effective manner.
proposition of price comparison websites.
Investment in new Significant investments in new products and services or Investments in new areas typically leverage existing areas and or new geographies fail to make a return.
Failure to expertise and experience built up over many years.
significant generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies and or Capital requirements are relatively low and investment acquisitions cost savings from significant acquisitions could lead to is managed in stages such that it is not finally significant goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Significant acquisitions are approved by the Board following pre-acquisition due diligence.
Post-acquisition performance of significant acquisitions is closely monitored to ensure corrective action can be taken in the event of deviations from expected performance.
Financial services The business model in financial services or other lines The Group has a team of regulatory specialists who and other markets of business may be compromised by changes to work with the business to ensure that it remains regulation existing regulation or the introduction of new compliant with existing regulation and informed of regulation.
The Group has embraced regulation to date and shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
Economic Reduction in visitors and revenue from a recession as The Group continues to focus on building a wide range environment customers seek to reduce levels of discretionary of market leading services to meet customers needs.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversification of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive Loss of market share and erosion of margins from The Group continues to focus on building market environment increased competition.
leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception Reduction in customer loyalty with existing customers Continued investment in television advertising and reputation and an inability to attract new customers if the business reinforced through press activity will maintain the fails to maintain its position as a leading price Group in customers minds.
Rigorous checking of the comparison website or if its reputation is negatively website through audit and review will maintain the impacted by any event, such as the loss or misuse of accuracy of the information displayed.
Rigorous use of customer personal data or a failure to treat customers internal controls and testing of the Groups systems fairly.
together with infrastructure investments will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems and ensure that customers are treated fairly.
Business continuity, Failure to provide adequate service levels to customers The Group maintains two separate data centres with capacity and or maintain revenue generating services.
n 1 redundancy in relation to its core infrastructure to functionality of IT ensure that service is maintained in the event of a and systems disaster at the primary data centre.
Developed software is rigorously tested and the Group operates a robust release process which mitigates the likelihood of software being released into a live environment without being fully tested.
Loss of key Loss of key management resulting in a lack of necessary Existing key management, new hires or management management expertise or continuity to execute strategy.
teams that are recruited through acquisitions are tied in through attractive equity and other incentive packages and rewarding career structures.
In addition, succession plans have been developed or are being developed for key members of the management team including through acquisitions which are regularly reviewed.
Reliance on search Reduction in gross margin through reduction in The Group will continue to invest in sustainable search engine natural revenue derived from search engine optimisation engine optimisation activities which adhere to search listings activities.
Changing customer Reduction in customer loyalty with existing customers The Group continues to focus on building market behaviour and an inability to attract new customers if the business leading products to improve its proposition to fails to adapt to changing customer behaviour, such as customers.
The Group continues to engage with the increasing use of mobile devices to access the customers to understand any changes in the way they internet, apps and social media.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
