StrAtegIC report 19 rISK MAnAgeMent the group has an established risk management management of risk sits within the groups review, a number of actions were identified methodology in place which seeks to identify, internal control framework at the level of the to improve controls and the mitigation of risk.
quantify, manage and mitigate both existing and group where the impact would materialise, For example, the review of both the top emerging risks, together with a comprehensive with the effectiveness of the controls and down and site up single point exposures internal control framework and appropriate mitigating actions being monitored and identified the need to qualify alternate suppliers assurance processes.
the Board considers that assessed through a group-wide review of key materials both internally and externally this is fundamental to achieving the group aim of process.
Senior members of the management at certain of our businesses.
the Board Audit creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
team are responsible for the strategic Committee annual review of key risks will management of the respective key risks, continue into 2014 and beyond.
risks are identified top down by the Board including related policy, guidelines and process.
and site up though the groups businesses the following risks feature in the groups key and are quantified by assessing their inherent During 2013, the Board Audit Committee risk register and are those that the Board feels impact and mitigated probability to ensure reviewed all risks with an inherent potential could have the most serious effect on achieving that the true potential impact of any risk and eBItA impact of above 5 million and the our strategy of building a sustainable business its likelihood of materialising is appreciated controls and assurance processes that are in for the long term and delivering strong returns to our stakeholders.
the day-to-day place to mitigate those risks.
As a result of this rISK MItIgAtIon Strategy and strategic planning risks Technology obsolescence one of the groups strategic priorities is that it aims to be innovative, the group has a Chief technical officer and a dedicated differentiated and high value-added.
this is fundamental to technology team which monitors technology and business achieving the goal of continuing to be one of the worlds very developments.
Specifically, the team has developed technology best advanced materials companies.
roadmaps for its major technology families to ensure it is at the leading edge of technology development, but also to understand unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the loss emerging and competing technologies.
of control of proprietary technology or the loss of intellectual property know-how would impact the groups business and the technology team proactively manages the groups technology its ability to deliver on its strategic goal.
pipeline and r&D investment in new improving technologies.
this technology pipeline is regularly reviewed by the group executive and the Board.
where group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge differentiated solutions of value.
the group seeks to secure Ip protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff Making Morgan a safe, fulfilling and rewarding group to work for Another of the groups strategic priorities is to find, keep and is the primary means of control and the group has an Hr Director develop the right people.
and a network of Hr professionals within the business along with policies and processes to manage the risks relating to its people.
the advanced technological nature of the group requires people these cover areas including reward and recognition, health and with highly differentiated skillsets.
Any inability to recruit, retain safety, talent management, skills assessment and development, and develop the right people would impact the group achieving performance management and employee consultation.
A global employee survey was carried out in 2013, the results of which will inform further actions going forward.
In 2012 the group launched a graduate leadership programme and this ran for a successive year in 2013, with enhanced numbers of graduates and with a greater global focus.
Further detail on people is available on pages 32 to 34.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 20 StrAtegIC report rISK MAnAgeMent continued rISK MItIgAtIon Operational risks Treasury risks the groups global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties the groups treasury function, treasury policy and guidelines in the financial markets and the banking sector which heighten the provide strict controls on the selection of banks and cash groups foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as management.
the treasury team proactively manages and well as the risk of bank failure impacting the groups cash.
is ultimately responsible for all of the groups funding, liquidity, cash management, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other treasury business.
Quality of contracts the group has an in-house legal function supplemented by As a global advanced materials business supplying into critical external lawyers.
applications, our quality of contracts must match our quality of products.
Ineffective contract risk management could result in the group legal policy requires in-house legal review of high-value significant liabilities for the group and damage customer relationships.
or high-risk contracts to ensure that the contracts contain the appropriate protection for the group.
Ceo approval is required before any part of the business can enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liabilities could exceed 5 million.
In 2013, the Ceo approved entry into only two contracts with this liability profile, where the underlying risks were considered to be within the groups risk appetite.
to the extent that risk has not been managed out of the contractual process, the group has insurance cover approved by the Board, including product liability insurance.
IT risks and cyber risks the group has an It policy and guidelines in place as well as In order to meet the groups strategic objectives the viability group and business It teams to manage the groups infrastructure of its underlying It infrastructure is essential.
If a critical business technology roadmap and It risks.
system was to fail or the group lost critical data or information through inadequate data management or security of It systems, During the course of 2013 there has been focus on testing the the business would be impacted.
global infrastructure, including elements of It auditing into the internal audit process, reviewing data management and reviewing developing the groups business continuity plans in relation to It risk.
In relation to cyber risk a number of steps have been taken in 2013, security guidance documents have been introduced, access privileges have been improved, and network monitoring enhanced.
Further improvements are planned in 2014.
Product quality, safety and liability Many of the groups products are designed to customer products used in applications for which they were not intended specifications.
over 90% of the groups manufacturing output or inadequate quality control systems overcommitting on is accredited to ISo 9001 and the groups quality management specifications could result in products not meeting specifications, systems and training help ensure that Morgans products meet or which could lead to significant liabilities and reputational damage.
exceed customer requirements and national international standards.
Contracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications are subject to mandatory legal review.
there were no material product quality issues in 2013. the group insurance programme includes product liability insurance, this group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 21 rISK MItIgAtIon Operational risks continued Single point exposures the group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, the group executive is responsible for monitoring and managing these include: these single point exposures.
Single point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal or external supply could impact business continuity.
local and regional management of these risks involves monitoring Single point customer the unmitigated loss of a major and reviewing supply chains internal and external, dual multiple customer could have an impact on group profit.
sourcing of materials or strategic stock, fire protection systems, Single point profit a key site exposed to a strike, a natural creating and testing disaster recovery plans, and maintaining catastrophe or serious incident such as fire could impact product quality and customer relationships.
the group insurance programme includes business interruption cover, this group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Environment, health and safety EHS risks the group has a well-developed eHS programme managed by the group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the eHS Director, with site-based eHS officers to implement and the globe.
A failure in the groups eHS procedures could lead to monitor eHS adherence at site level.
environmental damage or lead to injury or death of individuals, with a consequential impact on operations and raising the risk During 2013 the group has implemented a number of safety of regulatory action being taken against the group.
Any such action performance improvement programmes and launched a process could result in litigation, resultant damages and damage to reputation.
to analyse and understand the root causes and consequences of all lost time accidents.
In 2014 a global behavioural safety programme will be introduced group-wide.
Further detail of the eHS programme in place to manage these risks is available on pages 26 to 31.
Compliance and ethics risks Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation the group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and the groups global operations must comply with a range of individual behaviour and this commitment is set out in the groups national and international laws and regulations including those Core Values Statement and ethics policy.
related to bribery and corruption, human rights, exports and competition anti-trust.
Due to the potential magnitude of corporate fines, compliance risks are identified as some of the most significant risks for a number A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could result of reasons: in civil or criminal liabilities, individual or corporate fines and could Morgans historic breach of anti-trust laws creates a greater also result in debarment from government related contracts and sensitivity to anti-trust risk and means that the group could reputational damage.
be subject to the greater potential liabilities which attach to repeat offenders.
the location of a number of Morgan businesses and customers means they are exposed to greater bribery risk.
Morgan exports from the uS and is therefore subject to the stringent uS export laws.
the groups responsible Business programme, and the uS export Director, address these areas of risk through policies, training education and reporting assurance processes.
Full information is available on pages 23 to 25.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 22 StrAtegIC report rISK MAnAgeMent continued rISK MItIgAtIon external risks Changing political, economic and social environment the group operates in a range of markets and geographies the groups broad market geographic spread helps to mitigate the around the world and can be affected by political, economic, effects of political and economic crises.
social or regulatory developments or instability such as the euro crisis and uS government debt fiscal cliff.
Some of those Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a business and risks related to Morgan in 2013 include Venezuelan regime change, group level, with contingency plans in place to manage the Argentinian economic policies, tensions between China, taiwan changing situations.
and Japan, and uS fiscal cliff.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
Also, the group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
pension funding the group participates in defined pension arrangements which Active management of the pension scheme assets is the primary are exposed to fluctuating interest rates, investment values and means of mitigation.
this comprises management both internally inflation.
this coupled with the increased longevity of members within the group but also externally through corporate actuaries could result in funding burdens on the group in the future.
this is not an exhaustive list and there are many factors that could change.
For this reason, the fundamental concept underpinning the groups approach to risk is that beyond the regular review and assessment of controls and mitigation of risk, each business is required to have an up-to-date and tested business continuity plan and to foster a culture of risk-readiness.
the case study below demonstrates the effectiveness of instilling a culture of risk-readiness and was used as a practical way of demonstrating this in the 2013 training sessions on risk.
In october 2012, Hurricane Sandy hit the uS and affected a number of our uS businesses, particularly Certech Inc. in new Jersey.
the hurricane itself was of a greater magnitude and with a more severe effect than had been anticipated and the business found itself without power and with severely affected employees.
Having an up-to-date business continuity plan in place to follow and to use as guidance was important but what took the business beyond this was the culture of risk-readiness: As the hurricane was expected, preparations had been made including the securing of accesses, signage and anything that could cause damage externally.
the evening shift was cancelled and employees told to stay at home: this being communicated via an existing telephone chain system.
the general Manager and the maintenance engineer remained on site, the engineer staying on site throughout the night.
the following day, emails were sent to all employees advising that those who could get to work would be welcome.
there were variable attendance rates in the following days but management played their part in allowing for flexible working to fit around childcare, logistical and safety issues.
the employees also played their part, many walking cycling or finding a car share in order to get into work.
Hourly staff who were concerned about lost wages were offered additional overtime to the extent possible.
with basic supplies becoming an issue for many employees, other Morgan plants shipped in dried goods, soups, toilet paper, nappies and petrol.
A wal-Mart gift card of uS$150 was issued by the north American management for everyone in the Certech business.
the plan provided the structure for the immediate reaction but the risk-readiness culture of the management and local teams across the affected business resulted in limited down-time in production, no lost contracts damage to customer relationships and a developed sense of team.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
