Strategic Report: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Concession and contract renewal Risks Assessment Management Potential Much of the Groups business is secured Approximately 65% of the Groups total A reputation for high quality services helps impact through winning contracts and concessions, revenue is either contract or concession to win and retain contracts.
The Group has particularly in its North American School Bus based.
These contracts vary in length and a good record of retaining contracts on a and Transit business, in Spain and in Rail.
are typically awarded for between 12 months historic basis: no national coach concession High and 20 years.
in Spain has been lost before and retention 2014 sees some significant bidding activity, rates in School Bus are typically very high such as the Essex Thameside c2c Rail Essex Thameside is the Groups last 97% in 2013. franchise and the expected start of bidding remaining Rail franchise and so represents to renew coach concessions in Spain.
all of the current rail revenue.
The Group has National Express has now submitted its bids secured its participation in the rail industry for Essex Thameside and Crossrail.
It has in future by winning contracts to operate also prequalified to tender for ScotRail during services in Germany until 2030.
Further rail contracts are being bid in Germany.
The concession renewal process in Spain is undergoing regulatory change, with the ALSA is well prepared to submit high quality most significant difference the removal of bids on its own and other concessions as the incumbent advantage.
ALSA currently and when they are called to tender.
expects about 20% of its national coach concessions to be bid in 2014 and 2015.
Economic conditions and austerity Risks Assessment Management Potential Uncertain economic conditions currently Revenues in the Bus, Coach and Rail The Group seeks to mitigate these risks impact exist in Europe and North America.
Whilst businesses in the UK and Spain may be through proactive cost control, revenue some of the Groups businesses have affected by lower passenger demand: there management systems, the careful economic naturally defensive characteristics, some of is also some positive risk that the Group modelling of new and existing contracts, High the more discretionary parts of the business would benefit from the prospect of modal including sensitivities around expected may be adversely affected by reduced shift towards its forms of transport.
In North growth rates, and through sharing risk economic activity.
America for example, school boards may with contracting parties.
reduce their transportation budgets, or look to shift provision to contractors like National Express.
In Spain, the division may be affected by the effects of austerity and low GDP growth.
However, they may benefit from the outsourcing of further urban bus operations.
Political and regulatory Risks Assessment Management Potential The Groups businesses are subject to Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close impact numerous laws in the jurisdictions in which environments can have a significant impact relationships with key stakeholders and they operate, regulating the operation of on regulated public transport operators, ensuring that the economic advantages of concessions, safety procedures, equipment from adding significant cost to changing the our business models are fully understood Medium specifications, employment requirements, fundamental nature of a market.
environmental procedures and other Changes in UK Government policy resulted in In the longer term, the Group can mitigate operating issues.
material decreases in subsidies paid in 2012 risk by diversifying its operations into and 2013 for senior citizen discounts and other geographies.
The UK Department for Transport is introducing reforms in the franchising process and has recently restarted the tendering process.
The Spanish Government has agreed the imposition of a fee on new concessions and the removal of a 5% incumbency advantage on new national intercity concessions.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 Contract management Risks Assessment Management Potential As noted above, the Group has a significant An inherent risk in contract bidding is that The Group seeks to mitigate the risk through impact proportion of its revenue that is won through bid assumptions might prove to be incorrect.
careful economic modelling of new contracts, contract and concession tenders.
If the Groups significant bid assumptions and by sharing revenue risk with the awarding prove to be incorrect, this could have an body: for example with the DfT in Rail.
Medium adverse effect on results of the operations Proper mobilisation is a key part of ensuring and the Groups financial condition.
that risk of divergence from bid assumptions is minimised.
The following are ongoing risks within the business: Fuel cost Risks Assessment Management Potential All of the Groups businesses are exposed Fuel costs constitute approximately 10% of The Group seeks to mitigate risks of impact to fuel costs primarily diesel for buses and the Groups costs and, consequently, to the increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel coaches.
Fuel prices are subject to significant extent that price increases cannot be passed swaps and forward purchase contracts volatility due to economic, political and on to customers, increases in fuel costs will in line with the Groups hedging strategy Medium climate circumstances.
We have hedge protection into 2016.
Insurance and claims Risks Assessment Management Potential The Groups policy is to self-insure a number There is a risk that a successful claim Throughout the business, a strong safety impact of potential claims within its business.
or series of successful claims may result culture prevails, led by the Board Safety and in substantially higher charges to profit Environmental Committee.
Where claims and cash outflow than expected.
arise, they are managed by experienced Medium claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to the Group.
It has also reduced self-insurance values and increased external market coverage.
Credit risk Risks Assessment Management Potential As contractual operations, the North Payment terms and cash collections in Receivables in each business are closely impact American and Spanish urban businesses North America are extremely good.
In Spain monitored, based on robust and thorough are exposed to the risk that customers are the level of outstanding debt is in line with documentation: provisions are then made either late or unable to pay sums owed historic levels.
In 2012 and 2013 all long term where appropriate on a prudent basis for Low to the Group.
outstanding amounts were settled through a certain level of non-collection.
Additional a Federal Government credit facility and the contractual terms for interest accrual and level of outstanding debt is back to normal repayment of outstanding balances have levels and continues to fall.
been agreed with overdue debtors where necessary.
Currency Risks Assessment Management Potential The Groups exposure to overseas earnings Foreign currency movements impact The Group uses currency debt and currency impact through its Spanish and North American the profit, balance sheet and cash flows swaps to reduce the impact and mitigate the operations creates a risk that movement of the Group.
During 2013 both the Euro risk.
In addition, management has flexibility in exchange rates may adversely impact and US dollar appreciated against Sterling.
to adjust Group capital allocation.
Low translation of profit and cash flows together The Group holds Euro-denominated debt The Board has tested for the impact of with Group gearing.
and US dollar finance leases.
a break-up of the Eurozone or sovereign debt default on the Groups ability to fund and operate, and has identified plans for such scenarios.
