Strategic Report: Risk and Risk Management Committed to managing risk effectively and robustly The Group has a well established governance Risk assessment review structure with internal control and risk management systems.
The risk management process: Risk assessment Review provides a framework to identify, assess and manage risks, both positive and negative, to the Groups overall strategy Identify Group Executive Committee and the contribution of its individual component divisions: gives business unit management formal Assess Audit Committee tools to identify and manage risks in their day-to-day operations: allows Group Executive management to Mitigating actions PLC Board identify and manage the risks that are likely to have a more significant impact on the financial results and strategy and share Risk assessment Review common issues and solutions across Each division, plus the Group function, is Risks are considered on a monthly basis at the Group: and required to make a formal review of all risks to divisional level and formally updated twice a year.
allows the Board to fulfil its governance their business objectives, assess the impact These risks are documented on a divisional risk responsibilities by making a balanced and likelihood of the risk occurring and put in register.
Management is encouraged to review and understandable assessment of the place appropriate mitigating actions, processes the risk registers from other divisions to identify operation of the risk management process and systems to manage the risk.
common issues and potential solutions.
Identify Each divisional register, including the Group Responsibilities and actions Identify risks to business objectives on a bottom function register, is consolidated into a Group The Board: up basis: risks are described and categorised Risk Register.
has overall responsibility for the Groups into Operational, Strategic and Financial risks The Group Executive Committee reviews the system of internal control and for reviewing in order to help define their precise nature and Group Risk Register twice a year, followed its effectiveness: potential impact on the business.
by the Group Audit Committee.
The Audit has a mandate to define the Groups risk Assess Committee reports in turn to the main Board.
culture and to determine its appetite for risk Assess and quantify the potential impact in order to deliver the strategic objectives: Internal audit on business objectives and determine the maintains full control and direction over The internal audit function has responsibility likelihood of the risk occurring.
This is done on appropriate strategic, financial, operational for the monitoring of the risk management and a before and after basis, where the impact of and compliance issues: and internal control systems.
Internal Audit reports management controls is assessed in relation to has put in place an organisational structure to management and the Audit Committee the probability and severity of a risk.
with formally defined lines of responsibility, on the extent to which internal controls are delegated authorities and clear operating Mitigating actions adequately designed and implemented.
Take mitigating actions and implement systems to manage the likelihood and impact of the The Audit Committee: risk.
Identify an individual with responsibility has specific responsibility for reviewing for each risk.
and validating the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: is responsible for the identification, assessment and management of risk, including actions taken and processes adopted to do so: reviews and approves all financial information published by the Group: and reviews the internal audit programme, considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews managements financial reporting and risk management.
24 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review Strategic Report pp01-51 During 2013 the Group focused on the following key areas of risk: Risk Change Why?
Responsible Concession and contract Significant increase in bidding activity Group Chief Executive and renewal divisional Managing Directors Economic conditions Tight public budgets in persistently weak Divisional Managing Directors and austerity economic conditions Political and regulatory Ongoing regulatory changes in Spain, Group Chief Executive and North America and UK divisional Managing Directors Contract management Ongoing inherent risk in contract businesses Divisional Managing Directors The following are ongoing risks within the business: Fuel cost Changes in the price of fuel will continue to be Group Finance Director a risk Insurance and claims Continuing claims management and safety Group Finance Director systems in place Credit risk Payment terms and cash collection better Divisional Finance Directors in North America and Spain Currency Lessening threat of major disruption Group Finance Director in Eurozone www.
