National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 15 Internal control and risk management The National Grid Finance Committee sets policy, monitors Risks are managed within the National Grid internal compliance and grants authority for financing decisions, control and risk management processes as a whole.
taxation, insurance, pensions and trading hedging activities in National Grid Gas is part of this and participates in the line with the National Grid Boards risk appetite.
processes which are described below, in addition to its The National Grid Safety, Environment and Health Committee own governance processes which are subject to the UK SEH sets policies, implements initiatives and monitors Corporate Governance Code.
compliance and reviews reports on key risks associated with The Gas Transmission Executive Committee is progress towards our safety, environment and health responsible for day to day management of our Gas objectives.
The Distribution Executive The National Grid Executive Committee reviews regular reports Committee is responsible for day to day management of from specialist functions to monitor the adequacy and our Gas Distribution business.
The membership of these effectiveness of the internal control framework and takes two committees comprises Directors and senior business appropriate action to safeguard the interests of National Grid managers.
The Gas Transmission Executive Committee and to further our strategy and business objectives.
is chaired by John Pettigrew, who also sits on the Supported by dedicated, specialist teams Executive Committee of National Grid, and is the UK Process owners carry out detailed assessments and response Chief Operating Officer.
The Distribution Executive plans are developed and monitored regularly.
The National Grid Committee is chaired by Jeremy Bending.
Board and process owners are supported by dedicated specialist teams.
Those specialist teams being: The System Operator Executive Committee is responsible for the strategic direction of Great Britain SO National Grids Risk management team: activities Gas and Electricity combined and the RIIO works with the National Grid Board to determine risk incentive and output performance measures.
The appetite and establish and implement risk management membership of this committee comprises Directors and policies: is responsible for the independent review and challenge of senior business managers.
The committee is chaired by risk information throughout the business, compilation and Nick Winser, who also sits on the Executive Committee analysis of risk profiles and monitoring risk management of National Grid, and is the National Grid UK Executive processes with the National Grid Group: and Director.
regularly reports on risks to the oversight bodies.
Overall responsibility for management of risks lies with National Grids Ethics and compliance management team: the Board of National Grid, which is committed to the maintains our standards of ethical business conduct: protection of our reputation and assets, as well as promotes ethical behaviour and monitors compliance with safeguarding the interests of our shareholders.
We external legal and regulatory requirements: and operates our whistleblower helplines and supports activities achieve this through maintaining a sound system of to prevent and detect bribery.
National Grids Corporate audit team: Oversight by the National Grid Board and its develops and executes a risk-based audit plan: and committees provides independent, objective assurance to the National National Grids Board of Directors maintains overall Grid Audit Committee, Safety, Environment and Health responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and Committee, the National Grid Executive Committee, the reviews the effectiveness of the framework annually.
The Gas Transmission Executive Committee, the Distribution National Grid Board establishes the control environment, sets Executive Committee and the System Operator Executive Committee on the extent to which control and governance risk appetite, approves policies and delegates responsibilities.
Where appropriate it delegates authority to its committees.
National Grids Safety, environment and health team: The National Grid Audit Committee receives reports from the specialist functions and reviews the effectiveness of internal develops policy recommendations for the National Grid controls over financial reporting and risk management Board: procedures.
Also reviews the adequacy of the external audit monitors safety, environment and health performance: and works with process owners to deliver our safety, process, including the effectiveness, independence and environment and health objectives.
objectivity of the external auditors.
National Grids Internal controls team: 16 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 works with process owners to identify, document and test the fundamentals of internal control over financial reporting the design and operation of internal control over financial which are applied across the National Grid Group and its reporting: and accounting guides provide guidance on its accounting policies.
helps refine and improve controls where required.
Within National Grid processes we have system, transaction National Grids system of internal control and, in particular, its and oversight controls.
In addition, businesses prepare detailed risk management process, has been designed to support its monthly management reports which include analysis of their strategic and business objectives as well as internal control results along with comparisons to relevant budgets, forecasts over financial reporting.
We aim to do this through: and prior year results.
These are presented to and challenged by National Grid senior management within Finance.
The mitigating risk: National Grid Finance Director, in turn, presents a consolidated making sure our information, including financial reporting, management report to the Board of National Grid.
is accurate and reliable: complying with our obligations both internal and These reviews are supplemented by quarterly performance external: reviews, attended by National Grids Chief Executive and applying sound governance practices: and Finance Director.
They discuss historical results and expected making informed and timely decisions to further our future performance and involve senior management from both objectives.
operational and financial areas of the business.
National Grids internal controls are designed to manage rather In addition to its own governance processes, National Grid Gas than eliminate material risks.
We balance the costs of internal participates in the governance process of National Grid, which controls with the magnitude and likelihood of the risks being is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
managed in light of our risk appetite.
The internal control processes comply with the Turnbull National Grids internal control process guidance on internal control and the requirements of the UK National Grids internal control process is based on thorough Corporate Governance Code.
and systematic processes that identify, assess and monitor Reviewing the effectiveness of National Grid internal business critical risks.
control Accurate and reliable information plays a vital role in our Each year the Board of National Grid reviews the effectiveness decision making, while education, training and awareness are of its internal control process, including financial reporting, to all important elements that help us maintain effective internal make sure it remains robust.
The latest review covered the controls.
National Grids internal control process starts with identifying risks, compliance matters and other issues.
We do this through routine reviews carried out by process owners and facilitated by relevant dedicated, specialist teams.
National Grid Gas record risks in our risk register, assesses the implications and consequences for National Grid and determine the likelihood of occurrence.
We put in place action plans, controls and other process improvements designed to address the risks and issues identified.
National Grid assesses the effectiveness of the controls regularly and seeks independent assurance where it is appropriate to do so.
National Grid formally report the outcomes of its risk identification and control assessments to senior management and the relevant oversight bodies.
This informs its decisionmaking and provides assurances about its internal controls to management and the Board of National Grid.
National Grid regularly monitor its action plans, other process improvements and the status of risks.
The results of its review help update the process as the cycle continues.
Internal control over financial reporting National Grid has specific internal mechanisms to govern the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Its financial controls guidance sets out
