com Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group operates in a dynamic business environment.
In Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are implemented addition to the day-to-day commercial risks faced by most throughout the Groups technology operations and designed enterprises such as fraud and theft, the online gaming industry to protect its networks from malicious attacks and other faces particular challenges in respect of regulatory risk, such risks.
These measures include traffic filtering, antireputational risk, information technology risk and taxation risk, DDoS Distributed Denial of Service devices and Anti-Virus each of which is detailed below.
The Group considers that the protection from leading vendors.
Physical and logical network nature of its principal risks has not undergone any significant segmentation is also used to isolate and protect the Groups change during 2013. networks and restrict malicious activities.
The IT environment is audited by independent auditors, such as PCI DSS security Regulatory risk audit and eCOGRA audit.
These audits form part of the Groups The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic approach to ensuring proper IT procedures and a high level of and complex.
Change in the regulatory regime in a specific security.
In order to ensure systems are protected properly and jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on business effectively, external security scans and assessments are carried volume and financial performance in that jurisdiction.
In addition, out in a timely manner.
The Group has a disaster recovery site a number of jurisdictions have regulated online gaming, and in to ensure full recovery in the event of disaster.
All critical data many of those jurisdictions the Group holds licenses.
However, is replicated to the disaster recovery site and stored off-site on in some cases, lack of clarity in the regulations, or conflicting a daily basis.
In the event of loss of functionality of the Groups legislative and regulatory developments, mean that the Group critical services, the business can be fully recovered through may risk failing to obtain an appropriate license, having existing the resources available at the disaster recovery site.
licenses adversely affected, or being subject to other regulatory In order to minimise dependence on telecommunication sanctions.
Furthermore, legal and other action may be taken by service providers, the Group invests in network infrastructure incumbent gaming providers in jurisdictions which are seeking redundancies whilst regularly reviewing its service providers.
to regulate online gaming, in an attempt to frustrate the grant The Group has two internet service providers in Gibraltar in of online gaming licenses to the Group.
A detailed regulatory order to minimise reliance on one provider.
review is set out in the Regulation section above.
As a part of its monitoring system, the Group deploys set user The Group manages its regulatory risk by routinely consulting experience tests which measure performance from different with legal advisors in the jurisdictions where its services are locations around the world.
Network-related performance offered or are accessible, where necessary obtaining formal issues are addressed by rerouting traffic using different routes legal opinions from local counsel.
Furthermore, the Group or providers.
888 operates a 24 7 Network Operations Centre obtains frequent and routine updates regarding changes in the NOC.
The NOCs role is to conduct real time monitoring of law that may be applicable to its operations, working with local production activities using state-of-the-art systems.
These counsel to assess the impact of any changes on its operations.
systems are designed to identify and provide alerts regarding The Group constantly adapts and moderates its services to problems related to systems, key business indicators and issues comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
Finally, the surrounding customer usability experience.
Group blocks players from certain blocked jurisdictions using multiple technological methods as appropriate.
The IT environment tracks changes, incidents and SLA KPIs in order to ensure that client experience is consistent and well Reputational risk managed.
As part of these procedures, capacity planning Under-age and problem gaming are inherent risks associated takes place and infrastructure is built accordingly.
System-wide with the online gaming industry.
The Group devotes availability and business-level availability is measured and considerable resources to putting in place prevention measures logged in the IT information systems.
coupled with strict internal procedures designed to prevent Taxation risk under-aged players from accessing its real money sites.
In addition, the Group promotes a safe and responsible gaming The Group aims to ensure that each legal entity within the Group environment to its customers supplemented by its corporate is a tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated culture.
The Group has a dedicated Director of Responsible and has no taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
While the Gaming tasked with the responsibility of implementing such Groups customers are located worldwide, certain jurisdictions policies.
Further details about the Groups responsible gaming may seek to tax the Groups activity which could have a material initiatives are set out in the Social, Community and Human adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group or Rights Issue section above.
impose tax by reference to customers activity.
Furthermore, jurisdictions in which online gaming is regulated may impose Information Technology risks gaming duties on licenced operators.
Commencing in December As a leading online business, the Groups IT systems are critical 2014, the United Kingdom is expected to impose gaming tax on to its operation.
The Group is reliant on the performance of a point of consumption basis, which is expected on the one hand these systems.
to lower margins, but on the other, to continue the trend toward consolidation in that market.
The Group actively monitors taxation risk in the relevant jurisdictions and takes such steps as it considers necessary to minimise such risks.
Stock Code: 888 19 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Financial risks The Group considers its exposure to financial risks, including country risk and exposure to trading counterparties, to be low.
During 2013, the Group hedged its foreign currency risks solely with leading banks including Barclays plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Partnership risks In line with its strategy, the Group has consolidated its position in the B2B market to be focused on fewer, larger B2B contracts.
However, this strategy also gives rise to commercial risks in that the Group is more exposed to non-renewal or termination of existing contracts.
On behalf of the Board: Brian Mattingley Chief Executive 25 March 2014 20 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11
