Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 26 Principal Risks and Risk Management The Group monitors a number of risks material to its progress.
Description Risk Possible impact Mitigating activities Associated priorities Failure of the advanced technologies Lower profitability and The Group has moved away from large scale, single customer development Using Voice of the Customer to drive Technical risk applied by the Group to produce financialreturns.
programmes towards more commercially orientated products.
The Group provides high technology commercial products, capable of being Negative impact on the The New Product Introduction programme that any new R&D projects must pass Support and develop our employees equipment and systems to its customers.
through provides a framework within which the commercial viability of projects to maximise their value add.
Failures in the supply chain Disruption to customers.
Relationships with outsourcing businesses are monitored closely and any potential Developing a competitive global supply Outsourcing impactingsales.
issues are acted upon swiftly to avoid disruption.
base that supports our growth.
Negative impact on the The Groups strategic plan includes the Groupsreputation.
Where practical dual sources are used for key components and services.
Developing a strong brand in existing outsourcing of a significantly higher and developing markets.
proportion of the costs of its products tobenefit from economies of scale and natural currency hedges.
Appropriate acquisition targets will not Lower profitability and Extensive financial and technical due diligence is undertaken by the Group during Developing a strong brand in existing Acquisitions be available in the necessary timescale.
Part of the growth of Oxford Instruments Alternatively, once acquired, targets Management focus taken away from Each transaction has a comprehensive post acquisition integration plan which is Using Voice of the Customer to drive is planned to come from acquisitions may fail to provide the planned value.
the core business in order to manage reviewed at the highest level.
which provide the Group with integration issues.
The employee leaves the Group.
Lower profitability and The Group undertakes a regular employee survey and implements and reviews Supporting and developing People financialreturns.
A number of the Groups employees A comprehensive succession planning process is in place, together with a talent Providing career challenges.
network which identifies and manages contacts with people who could provide external succession for critical current and future roles.
A management development programme provides exposure to key skills needed forgrowth.
Regular individual performance reviews take place.
Demand for the Groups products Lower profitability and The Group has a broad spread ofcustomers, applications and geographical markets.
Developing a strong brand in existing Economic environment maybe lower thananticipated.
The Group is expanding in the so called BRIC nations, whose markets have been The recent global recession and more resilient during the economic downturn.
Focus on balanced and attractive prevailing economic downturn have globalmarkets.
resulted in cuts to both government andprivate sectorspending.
Movements in the actuarial assumptions Additional cash required by the Group The Group has closed its defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and US to Focus on balanced and attractive Pensions may have an appreciable effect on the to fund the deficit.
The Groups calculated pension deficit reported pension deficit.
The Group has a funding plan in place to reduce the pension deficit over the short Developing a competitive global supply issensitive to changes in the tomedium term.
The Groups profit levels are exposed Lower profitability and The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to transactional risk by the use of natural Focus on balanced and attractive Foreign exchange volatility to fluctuations in exchange rates.
A significant proportion of the Groups The remaining transactional foreign exchange risk in any year is mitigated through Developing a competitive global supply profit is made in foreign currencies.
the use of forward and non-premium based option exchange contracts.
The systems integrator switches Lower profitability and Use of the stage gate process and Voice of the Customer to make sure that the Developing products that offer the Routes to market supplier, denying the Groups route financialreturns.
Groups products are the best in the market.
In some instances the Groups products tomarket.
Co-marketing with system integrators to promote the merits of the Groups products are components of higher level systems Ensuring that end customers to end customers.
and thus the Group does not control its appreciate the benefits of Oxford route to market.
Financial risks Operational risks Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 27 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Associated strategic priorities key Liberating cash Adding personal value Inventing the future Delivering shareholder value Realising the brand Description Risk Possible impact Mitigating activities Associated priorities Failure of the advanced technologies Lower profitability and The Group has moved away from large scale, single customer development Using Voice of the Customer to drive Technical risk applied by the Group to produce financialreturns.
