Strategic Report Risk Management and Principal Risks Robust risk management.
The Group operates a system of internal control and risk management inorder to provide assurance that it is managing risk whilst achieving its business objectives.
The Groups systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, significant business risks, including the risk offailure to achieve business objectives, but can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
No system can fully eliminate risk and therefore the understanding of operational risk is central to the management process within Pace.
The long-term success of the Group depends on the continual review, assessment and control of the key business risks it faces.
Toenable shareholders to appreciate what the business considers are the main operational risks, they are briefly outlined below.
The following are the key risks and uncertainties relevant to the business of the Group: Risk Potential impact Mitigations Strategic risks Customers and markets Procedures are in place to monitor the Volatile revenue trends.
Revenue concentration from a small number financial and operating strength of customers.
Customer orders are typically short to mid-term commitments with no long-term guarantee.
Suppliers Procedures are in place to monitor the Lack of flexibility.
The Group works on long lead times for financial and operating strength ofsuppliers.
The Group uses dual or multi source Concentration on a small number suppliers where possible to mitigate ofmanufacturing partners.
Financial risks Royalties Cash outflow.
The Audit & Risk Committee and Board The Groups products incorporate receive a semi-annual report from the thirdpartytechnology.
General Counsel regarding royalty claims Inadvertent actions may expose the Group to the under negotiation.
All material claims are risk of infringing third party intellectual property rights.
monitored by outside legal counsel.
16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
indd 16 20 03 2014 12:22:23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk Potential impact Mitigations Financial risks continued Currency risks Adverse impact on The Groups treasury policy is to The Group operates globally and is exposed to theincome statement.
progressively hedge cash flows when they foreign exchange risks on both revenue and costs.
are sufficiently certain, and to seek price variations through contractual mechanisms.
Other risks Innovation Loss of technology Engineering teams split into Product development process can take over and ormarket advantage.
SBU teams closely aligned to customer Research and development effort may not be requirements and product roadmaps.
appropriately targeted on the correct areas.
Product liability claims Cash outflow.
The Group has in place quality control The Group is exposed to the risk of product and other operational procedures liability claims made by customers or affected Reputational damage.
Natural disasters Business continuity management Loss of ability to service Appropriateness of business continuity plans.
programmes exist internally and customer demand.
IT systems and security IT general and application controls.
Loss of ability to service Major system failure, information security breach customer demand.
In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee considers other strategic and financial risks which are relevant to the Group.
Corporate governance on page 26 to 28 Audit Committee on page 29 to 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 17 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
