OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk below.
These are the most significant risks that may factorswhich may affect our business and financial adversely affect our business strategy, financial position performance and to assist management in prioritising or future performance.
The risk assessment process their response to those risks.
Our Group internal audit evaluates the probability of the risk materialising and and compliance function facilitates risk reviews with the financial or strategic impact of the risk.
Those risks each business, shared service operations and which have a higher probability and significant impact corporate functions, identifying measures and controls on strategy, reputation or operations or a financial to mitigate these risks.
These reviews are designed impact greater than 40 million are identied as sothat the different businesses are able to tailor and principal risks.
The risk assessment and reporting adapt their risk management processes to suit their criteria are designed to provide the board with a specic circumstances.
Management is responsible consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
forconsidering and executing the appropriate action The reports to the board, which are submitted twice tomitigate these risks whenever possible.
It is not per year, include an assessment of the probability and possible to identify every risk that could affect our impact of risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks initiatives and their effectiveness.
described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial performance.
PRINCIPAL RISKS IMPACT AND PROBABILITY EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY REGULATION CHANGES AND FUNDING BRAND BUSINESS REPUTATION TRANSFORMATION MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS DATA PRIVACY EMERGING BREACH MARKETS ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS TESTING FAILURES PROBABILITY IMPACT 42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks Mitigating factors TECHNOLOGY CHANGES Our businesses will be impacted by the Our global education strategy will drive a faster move rateof and state of technological change, to digital and services, recognising that this is a significant including the digital revolution and other opportunity forPearson, as well as a potential risk.
are transforming ourproducts and services for the digital environment along withmanaging our print inventories.
We operate in markets which are dependent Our content is being adapted to new technologies across on Information Technology IT systems and our businesses and is priced to drive demand.
The transition of our new distribution channels by adapting our product offering products and services to digital increases the and investing in new formats.
potential exposure to cyber threats.
We seek to mitigate IT risks by establishing strong IT policies and operational controls, employing project management techniques to manage new software developments and or systems implementations and have implemented an array ofsecurity measures to protect our IT assets from attacks orfailures that could impact the condentiality, availability orintegrity of our systems.
EDUCATION REGULATION AND FUNDING Our US and UK educational solutions In the US we actively monitor changes through participation andassessment businesses may be in advisory boards and representation on standard setting affectedby changes in government funding committees.
Our customer relationship teams have detailed resulting from either general economic knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in new conditions, changes in government and innovative ways to expand and combine our products educational funding, programmes, policy and services to provide a superior customer offering when decisions, legislation and or changes in compared to our competitors, thereby reducing our reliance theprocurement processes.
on any particular funding stream in the US market.
We work through our own corporate affairs team and our industry trade associations including the Association of American Publishers.
We are also monitoring municipal funding and the impact on our education receivables.
In the UK we maintain relationships with those government departments and agencies that are responsible for policy and funding.
We work proactively with them to ensure our programmes meet existing and new government objectives atthe right quality.
ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES Global economic conditions may adversely The Groups approach to funding is described onpage 37 impact our financial performance.
and the Groups approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19 tothe financial statements.
A significant deterioration in Group profitability and or cash ow caused by prolonged economic instability could reduce our liquidity and or impair our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
We generate a substantial proportion of ourrevenue in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate uctuation could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 43 Principal risks Mitigating factors BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION The pace and scope of our business A chief transformation officer was appointed in 2013, to transformation initiatives increase the oversee the development and implementation of a significant execution risk that benets may not be change programme.
Some of the key mitigations for potential fullyrealised, costs of these changes may execution risk include change management workshops for increase, or that our business as usual senior leaders: additional support for people moving to new activities do not perform in line roles: and regular communication from theCEO and his with expectations.
leadership team in person and by online videos.
To clarify decision-making authority and accountability in the new If we fail to attract and retain appropriately global matrix organisation, worked examples of day-to-day skilled employees, our business may activities have been developed, including customer-facing be harmed.
activities such as developing and delivering online education services.
Our trading update in January 2014 noted the importance of our transformation and our decisions on timing of changes such as deferring sales-related restructuring to avoid key selling periods.
Through the changes during 2013, we have been successful in promoting our best internal talent and recruiting individuals who are global leaders in their specic eld.
Further details of how we are managing the risks associated with transformational change are set out under Responsible business from page 47.
BRAND REPUTATION MANAGEMENT Our business depends on a strong brand, We seek to mitigate this risk through the development of and any failure to maintain, protect and comprehensive processes to enable our business units enhance our brand would hurt our ability toeffectively manage relationships with stakeholders, toretain or expand our business.
We have an ongoing process to understand and evaluate potential brand threats and monitor and evaluate information about our brand across media sources.
This process and associated governance includes the reputation and responsibility committee.
The committee met during 2013 and has considered a number of topics including Pearsons non-financial targets, brand and reputation metrics and reputational risk and mitigations associated with testing failures in the US.
We take very seriously the health, safety, wellbeing and protection of our employees, learners and customers and implement appropriate policies, standards and procedures.
44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks Mitigating factors EMERGING MARKETS Our investment into inherently riskier We draw on our experience of developing businesses emerging markets is growing and the returns internationallyto manage specic country risks.
We have may be lower than anticipated.
designed and adopted anoperating model for a globallyconnected education company and we continue to strengthen our financial control and managerialresources in emerging markets to manage expansion.
The diversication of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the Group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall Group results.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS If we do not adequately protect our We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general intellectual property and proprietary rights vigilance, co-operation with other publishers and trade our competitive position and results may be associations, advances in technology, as well as recourse to adversely affected and limit our ability law as necessary.
Digital rights management standards and to grow.
monitoring programmes have been developed.
We have a piracy task force to identify weaknesses and remediate breaches.
We monitor activities and regulations in each market for developments in copyright intellectual property law and enforcement and take legal action where necessary.
ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS Failure to generate anticipated revenue We perform pre-transaction due diligence and closely growth, synergies and or cost savings from monitor actual performance to ensure we are meeting acquisitions, mergers and other business operational and financial targets.
Any divergence from combinations could lead to goodwill and theseplans will result in management action to improve intangible asset impairments.
performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisitions and mergers.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 45 Principal risks Mitigating factors DATA PRIVACY BREACH Failure to comply with data privacy Through our global enterprise information security and regulations andstandards or weakness in compliance programme, we have established agovernance information security, including a failure to model: security and privacy frameworkand policies: a global prevent or detect a malicious attack on our security and privacy organisational model: and standard-based systems, could result in a major data privacy information security and privacy controls and practices.
breach causing reputational damage to our We constantly test and re-evaluate our data security brands and financial loss.
procedures and controls across all our businesses withthe aim of ensuring personal data is secured and we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We pursue appropriate privacy accreditations, e. g. TRUSTe Privacy and Safe Harbor Seal.
We regularly monitor regulation changes to assess the impact on existing processes and programmes.
We have established a global security operations centre that provides ongoing monitoring of potential malicious attacks on our infrastructure and systems.
TESTING FAILURES A control breakdown or service failurein We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student our school assessment and qualications marking with the use of robust quality assurance procedures businesses could result in financial loss and controls and oversight of contract performance, andreputational damage.
combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people.
Our professional services and school assessment businesses involve complex In addition to the internal business procedures and controls contractual relationships with both implemented toensure we successfully deliver on our government agencies and commercial contractual commitments, we also seek to develop and customers for the provision of various maintain good relationships withour customers to minimise testing services.
Our financial results, associated risks.
growthprospects and or reputation may We also look to diversify our portfolio to minimise reliance be adversely affected if these contracts on anysingle contract.
46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Improving learner outcomes at scale, and at lower cost
