OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 71 Internal control and risk management Financial management and reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting The directors confirm they have conducted a review and forecasting system with an annual operating plan of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial management and internal controls, including strategic, information, including trading results, balance sheets, financial, operational and compliance controls and risk cash flow statements, capital expenditures and management systems, in accordance with the Code indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding and Turnbull guidance.
These systems have been figures for the plan and prior years, with corrective operating throughout the year and to the date action outlined by the appropriate senior executive.
Group senior management meet periodically with During 2013, the semi-annual reporting of top risks business area management to review their business was reviewed by executive management as well as the and financial performance against plan and forecast.
The principal risks are set Major risks relevant to each business area as well as out on pages 41 to 45, together with mitigating factors.
performance against the stated financial and strategic During the year, the audit committee considered the objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
oversight of specific selected principal risks, through a We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and series of risk deep dives.
This is covered in more effectiveness of controls in relation to the financial detail in the separate report on the audit committee.
reporting and consolidation process including the The key elements and procedures that have been related information systems.
This includes up-to-date established to provide effective risk management Group financial policies, formal requirements for and internal control systems are described below.
We finance functions, Group consolidation reviews and recognise that during 2014, we will need to align these analysis of material variances, Group finance technical existing procedures to the new organisation structure.
reviews, including the use of technical specialists, and review and sign-off by senior finance managers.
These Control environment processes are subject to reviews based on Group The board of directors has overall responsibility for internal audits risk based audit programme.
The Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed Group finance function also monitors and assesses to manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing these processes, through a finance compliance the Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, function.
but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
These controls include those over external financial reporting which are documented and tested in Responsibility for monitoring financial management and accordance with the requirements of section 404 reporting and risk management and internal control of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to systems has been delegated to the audit committee our US listing.
One key control in this area is the by the board.
At each meeting, the audit committee disclosure committee, which reports directly to the considers reports from management, Group internal audit committee.
This committee is chaired by the SVP audit and the external auditors, with the aim of internal audit and compliance and members include the reviewing the effectiveness of the internal financial chief financial officer, general counsel, SVP financial and operating control environment of the Group.
communications, SVP company secretarial as well as The identification and mitigation of significant business senior members of financial management.
The primary risks is the responsibility of Group senior management responsibility of this committee is to review Pearsons and the management team for each business area public reporting and disclosures to ensure that being the heads of the lines of business, geographies information provided to shareholders is complete, and enabling functions.
Each business area, including accurate and compliant with all applicable legislation the corporate centre, maintains internal controls and and listing regulations.
procedures appropriate to its structure, business The effectiveness of key financial controls is subject environment and risk assessment, whilst complying to management review and self-certification and with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
independent evaluation by Group internal audit.
