Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties set out in this section have been identified from our risk management process as potentially having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
They are managed as described but are not wholly within our control and may still result in a material adverse impact on the Group.
Factors beside those listed could also have a material adverse effect on our business activities.
How we manage risk We operate a well established and fully embedded Group wide risk management process from which we seek to identify significant risks at the earliest possible stage and determine whether they are acceptable risks which we can manage and mitigate satisfactorily.
More detail on our risk management process is set out on page 70 of our corporate governance report.
Key Increased during year Risk Level The colouring red, amber, green is the Groups Green Low estimate of the inherent risk level to the Group after Unchanged during the year mitigation.
It is important to note that risks are difficult Amber Medium Reduced during the year to estimate with accuracy and therefore the risks Red High may be more or less significant than indicated.
South West Water Law and regulation Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Changes in law, regulation or There is a wide range of laws The general direction of travel of decisions by governmental bodies and regulations and policy UK Government policy is known or regulators could have a material decisions of government and South West Water is actively adverse effect on our financial and regulators which could involved in consultations results or operations.
have a material adverse effect on on regulatory changes.
Examples of legal and regulatory change include: Uncertainty arising from DEFRA issued its Strategic Policy South West Water has contributed fully regulatory reform Statement to Ofwat the Economic to the consultation on regulatory reform Regulator in March 2013 outlining and has had dialogue with regulators direction and priorities.
Within and stakeholders in order to effectively that context Ofwat is reforming portray its views.
Methodology changes will continue 2012 13 has seen the modification to be considered over the coming of company operating licences months in the lead into the next in preparation for the next price price review.
review and a number of methodology change proposals.
Legislative and regulatory compliance As a regulated business South Performance against key regulatory West Water is subject to numerous outputs is reported to the Board on and changing obligations.
a monthly basis and where performance falls short corrective programmes are developed and implemented to target recovery in a specific area.
36 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Internal monitoring and assurance programmes are undertaken through the year.
Annual data is supported by external verification to provide assurance on the companys compliance with its obligations.
New regulations, obligations Issues are addressed through the fiveSouth West Water continues to manage and standards could increase costs year regulatory price review mechanism: cost pressures as they arise in addition obligations which arise within price to achieving operating cost efficiencies control periods such as private sewers and managing inflationary increases.
and bathing water obligations are funded through future adjustments to price limits.
Economic conditions Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Economic conditions could South West Water has exposure South West Waters revenues to reduced economic activity materially affect South West are economically regulated through the Waters revenues and profitability.
Non-recovery of customer debt Customer debt and affordability are In addition to existing strategies, which key areas of focus given the continued are kept under review, South West Water challenging economic conditions.
continues to implement new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection through: use of third party collection agencies external trace data to track down previous occupiers developing a new strategy for previous and earlier debt collections working with social housing partners continued use of property charging orders.
The company has also continued to fund and promote ways to help customers struggling to pay bills WaterCare, Restart, Fresh Start Fund which seek to reduce bad debt exposure.
South West Water is one of the few companies to have implemented a social tariff following the introduction of its WaterCare tariff from 2013 14.
This tariff is designed to assist around 10,000 households in the region by reducing their bills to an amount they can better afford to pay.
The Governments commitment to tackle the unfairness issue for South West Water customers, in which around 3% of the population are effectively paying for a third of the UKs bathing waters, has resulted in a household customers bill being reduced by 50 per annum from 2013 14.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 37 Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties South West Water continued Economic conditions continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Loss of revenue South West Water revenue can be The financial impact of changes impacted by changes in customer in customer demand is mitigated demand and other income streams.
through the Revenue Correction Mechanism whereby shortfalls The company has around 75% of its in revenue in one five-year regulatory customer base metered and as a result pricing period are adjusted the revenue from metered charges can in the following period.
be volatile from changes in customer usage which can be affected by: abnormal weather impacts increased water efficiency recession impacting commercial customers.
Financial loss arising from insolvency South West Water does not have The company uses third party credit of a major supplier material exposure to payment before monitoring services to identify changes receipt of goods and services.
to major suppliers financial status and creditworthiness to supplement an annual risk review of key and strategic suppliers.
Operating performance Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Poor operating performance Poor operating performance South West Water monitors or a failure or interruption could result in enforcement action, its operating performance of operating systems or the inability prosecutions, loss of permits through a wide range of systems to carry out network operations and civil action which could and management reviews or damage to infrastructure may all result in negative publicity, and invests as appropriate have a material adverse impact regulatory penalties, loss to maintain target performance.
on both our financial position of customer confidence and and reputation.
eventually reduced demand for services and increased fixed costs.
Non-compliance or avoidable South West Water is committed The number of RIDDOR accidents health and safety incident occurrences to achieving the appropriate level for 2012 has fallen by over 50%.
of health and safety compliance.
This year has seen the continued Continuous training is being delivery of the behavioural safety provided to ensure that appropriate programme including safety leadership health and safety working practices training for a number of staff, as well are embedded and this reducing as innovative behaviour training.
In addition senior management visits were completed during the year across a number of sites.
38 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Operational failure at clean Due to the nature of South West The company is able to monitor and waste water sites Waters business there are continued its significant assets by automated risks arising during the normal course and remote operation and has routine of business, including risk of failure controls and operating procedures of assets, processes or systems which in place that are constantly kept under could otherwise impact on the health, review.
Asset management techniques safety and security of the companys are employed to pre-empt the failure people or customers, or on its financial of assets.
Where issues do arise there are appropriate contingency plans to deal with such instances and these are updated through experience of such events.
Contamination of water supplies South West Water has established It also maintains insurance policies procedures and controls in place, in relation to these risks, although there as well as contingency plans can be no assurance that all or any and incident management procedures.
of the costs associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will continue to be available in the future.
Extreme weather and climate change 2012 has been a challenging The business is well placed to manage year in terms of weather impacts.
Key mitigation The continued dry weather from 2011 is having detailed contingency plans, into the early part of 2012 placed sufficient emergency resources pressure on the companys water and a capital programme that supports resources.
This was followed by ongoing efforts to manage these a period of extreme rain South West risks.
In the longer term the impacts Waters wettest spring summer in of climate change are being considered.
100 years which placed significant The company has plans ready and will pressure on its network and resulted in adapt the way it conducts its business higher levels of flooding incidents.
to respond effectively to climate changes.
Increased flooding incidents The extreme wet weather during The company has identified targeted the year resulted in a significant capital investments to reduce the risk to increase in the number of flooding specific customers in key affected areas.
incidents, both for customers and at South West Water sites.
Pollution events South West Water is committed As a result of the extreme weather during to minimising the impact the year the number of acute pollution on the environment.
incidents has increased from the prior year.
Whilst this is regrettable the number of more serious incidents has fallen from the prior year.
Water resources adequacy South West Water has a number Whilst there has been a strong recovery of schemes in place to maintain water in the companys water resources, as a resources such as pumped storage result of the extremely wet weather seen for certain reservoirs and promotes over spring summer 2012, the company conservation measures and customer continues to monitor reservoir levels to water efficiency measures.
maintain sufficient water resources for drier periods such as those seen in recent years.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 39 Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties South West Water continued Operating performance continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change South West Water also considers the longer term resource situation.
It prepares a new Water Resources Management Plan every five years and reviews it annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The Draft Water Resources Management Plan for 2015-2040 has recently been submitted to DEFRA and will be publicly available later in the year.
The plan indicates that the company has a surplus of resources through to the horizon of 2040.
However investment is needed to develop the overall trunk main infrastructure, to expand treatment capacity and to enhance certain pumped storage facilities.
Poor service provided to customers Customer service remains The company has delivered significant paramount to South West Water improvements in customer service and the company focuses on improving during K5 with a 51% reduction in customer satisfaction and reducing written complaints and an 88% increase customer complaints.
in the Service Improvement Mechanism SIM score.
Continued improvement is being targeted.
South West Water could incur a financial While the company has seen penalty under Ofwats Service Incentive improvements in customer service Mechanism SIM for below average particularly through reduced written customer service performance.
complaints, South West Waters relative position will remain unclear until industry data is published.
There is an ongoing strategy to improve customer service further.
Failure to deliver operating In line with its track record South West The company has delivered cumulative cost efficiencies Water remains confident of delivering operating cost efficiencies ahead Ofwats assumed operating cost savings.
Capital investment Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The failure or increased costs South West Water may not deliver South West Water has a track record of capital projects or acquisitions its capital programme within the of delivering its capital programme or joint ventures not achieving price limits and with the efficiencies in accordance with regulatory predicted revenues or performance determined by Ofwat.
requirements and progress is regularly could have a material adverse monitored and reviewed.
effect on both South West Waters financial position and reputation.
40 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Business systems Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Major failure of IT systems.
There always remains a risk of South West Water has well developed interruption, failure or third party IT systems and continuity systems intervention that could have a material in place.
These include a geographically adverse impact on the operations separate alternative data centre, of South West Waters business.
which is hosted by a third party communications provider.
This reduces the impact of any failure or disruption.
Market Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Uncertainty arising from Whilst the Draft Water Bill recognised As part of the risk management market reform.
an approach to reform that was and business strategic planning evolutionary rather than revolutionary processes the company continues the development of greater competition to evaluate developments and in the water industry could reduce proposals for competition.
South West Water is prepared for the development of retail competition for non-household customers during the next regulatory period and has developed enhanced services offered to commercial customers through Source for Business.
Reputation Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Loss of key stakeholder South West Water has a number The company is committed support and prolonged of key stakeholders, including to engaging with key stakeholders negative media campaign.
customers, and aims to balance for both South West Waters longtheir needs with environmental term strategy and coming regulatory responsibilities and legislative period through its independently and regulatory obligations.
chaired WaterFuture Customer Challenge Panel which includes representatives from stakeholder organisations.
In addition South West Water actively manages communications with customers and stakeholders both online and through social media.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 41 Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties Viridor Law and regulation Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Changes in law, regulation There is a wide range of laws The general direction of travel of or decisions by governmental and regulations and policy decisions UK Government policy is known bodies or regulators could have of government and regulators and Viridor is actively involved a material adverse effect which could have a materially in consultations on regulatory on Viridors financial results adverse effect on Viridor.
It maintains a transparent or operations.
and proactive relationship It remains possible that government with regulators.
policies and regulations may change in unforeseen ways Viridor policy is to meet or exceed which adversely affect Viridor.
regulatory requirements which represents a potential competitive advantage for the company.
Landfill diversion and recycling The UK has landfill diversion, Viridors strategy is to grow in recycling targets could increase costs recycling and recovery targets and energy from waste where margins reduce profitability which, together with the impact per tonne are much higher than in of WEEE Regulations, higher Producer landfill.
Escalating landfill tax increases Responsibility obligations and prethe economic attractiveness of recycling treatment requirements, plus rising and energy from waste.
The resource landfill tax, will continue to further efficiency agenda from the EU and the reduce landfill volumes for Viridor UK Governments attention to resource and potentially, over time, landfill and energy security are expected asset values.
to provide further opportunities for Viridor.
Reflecting the above Viridor has undertaken a thorough review of landfill site lives on a prudent basis, and has written down landfill asset values accordingly.
Higher regulatory standards The ever increasing demand for higher Wherever possible Viridor passes could increase costs standards, in areas such as health on these higher costs through and safety, environmental performance contractual arrangements with waste and employee welfare, increases costs.
authorities and other customers via legislation and technical clauses.
However as government cutbacks continue to bite, local authorities via austerity measures are looking for price reductions for already contracted waste streams.
Continually improved management controls and investment in its business management systems help Viridor to keep the cost base as low as possible whilst maintaining compliance.
Viridor also maintains a close interest in industry developments via the waste sector trade association and therefore is often at the forefront of planned changes.
42 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Economic conditions Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Economic conditions could Viridor has exposure to reduced Viridor has a diversified revenue economic activity, inflation deflation, materially affect Viridors revenues stream which includes domestic and profitability.
the impact of the current Eurozone sales as well as exports to countries uncertainties and any potential slow such as China and India and the rest down in the Chinese economy.
Nevertheless Viridor remains exposed to general weakening in worldwide economic conditions.
Reduced waste volumes could impact Viridor has seen residual waste landfill Viridors strategy is focused on growing and collection volumes reduce due Viridor revenue profit in recycling and energy from waste to the recession and the long-term where margins per tonne are much trend towards recycling and energy higher than in landfill.
Reduced recyclate prices could impact Viridors commodity trading arm, Viridor has attempted to mitigate this Viridor Resource Management, trades Viridor revenues profit price reduction via customer supply where the market is most favourable.
contracts and by extensive cost control However Viridor remains susceptible and other management actions.
Closure to global economic demands and the mothballing of sites has now taken place weakness of the Eurozone is having and an asset impairment charge has been a depressing effect on the prices recognised accordingly.
A breakdown of the Eurozone would intensify the downward pressure on prices.
In addition competition for recyclables from other contractors via aggressive pricing has been a recent trend.
Chinas recent Green Fence initiative, effectively banning certain waste streams from the country, has placed further burdens on exporters to that country.
Viridor enters into long-term The Governments ongoing spending Viridor provides best value services contracts which potentially subject review is putting increased pressure on and competitive procurement bids the company to contract performance local authority services, including waste to its public sector customers and is risk for many years management, and creating an ongoing protected by the terms of its contracts search for efficiencies.
which run for periods of up to 25 years.
Some local authorities are seeking price reductions.
Viridors position remains that it will consider renegotiation of contracts where appropriate to mutual benefit.
Nevertheless Viridor remains exposed to such pressures particularly when contracts come to an end.
Poor performance in the contract The companys strategy of identifying or poor initial pricing at the tender stage long-term profitable contracts includes could impact on the companys longa full evaluation of the benefits from a term profitability and financial condition.
mix of responses to the requirements of client organisations ensuring that profit is recognised at each stage of the supply chain.
The company has strict contract authorisation procedures which reflect the size, duration and potential risks of different types of contract.
Authorisation of long-term contracts is given at Board or senior management level.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 43 Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties Viridor continued Economic conditions continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The company has recognised that certain historic contracts, particularly from acquired businesses, have unsatisfactory pricing structures and where appropriate has recognised a diminution in value.
Operating performance Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Poor operating performance Poor operating performance Regulatory performance is subject or a failure or interruption could result in enforcement to continued and extensive internal of Viridors operations may have action, prosecutions, loss of permits and external inspection, including a material adverse impact and civil action which could all result business management systems on both its financial position in negative publicity, regulatory and compliance policy.
penalties, loss of customer confidence and, eventually, reduced demand for services and increased fixed costs.
Environmental provisioning Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Landfill aftercare and restoration The high cost of moving landfills Extensive modelling work has been liabilities are long-term in nature from active operation, through undertaken with the assistance of and could increase which may restoration and into aftercare, outside professional advisers to fully have a material adverse impact continues to increase.
understand the true cost of restoration on Viridors financial position.
This is compounded by shorter and aftercare.
This has resulted in remaining landfill lives due the period of provision having been to reduced tonnages.
increased to 60 years and provisions having increased accordingly.
Capital investment Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The failure or increased costs Within Viridor there are risks This has been recognised as a key of capital projects, and acquisitions of project delays, cost overruns risk and systems and procedures or joint ventures not achieving or contract failure which could are in place to address it.
More predicted revenues or performance, be as a result of failure or insolvency recently the Viridor board has been could have a material adverse effect on the part of contractors or their strengthened by the appointment on both Viridors financial position subcontractors, or due to a new of a Capital Projects and Engineering and reputation.
The establishment of oversight requirements.
There is also a risk boards for each of the major projects of overpaying for an acquisition.
has added additional rigour to their delivery.
Nevertheless the scale of the investment has increased significantly and the quantum of risk has accordingly risen.
With the increase in Viridors project Viridors experienced and dedicated project pipeline, Viridor recognises that this risk contract teams carry out detailed due diligence is increasing and is addressing it.
on all projects, suppliers, technologies and acquisitions prior to commencement.
44 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Wherever possible back-to-back agreements with, and guarantees from, suppliers are entered into which provide a significant degree of protection.
There is also regular monthly reporting on performance on major contracts and post project appraisals are carried out, which all assist in being able to improve future performance.
Contractor failing to deliver progress Despite extensive due diligence Viridor, through its Capital Projects could increase Viridors costs and significant protection of back-toand Engineering Director, proactively back contracts and or penalty clauses manages its contractors.
It has enhanced in contracts to deliver new technologies its team, both from internal and external on time and on budget, Viridor remains resources, to reflect the increased scale exposed to contractors failure to deliver of its capital programme.
new projects which may in extreme circumstances require lengthy legal action or other redress.
The Runcorn EfW CHP plant is believed to have fallen about nine months behind schedule and such delay without an increase in liquidated damages would have an adverse effect on Viridors associated joint ventures and ultimately on Viridor itself.
Competitive pressures Risk Commentary Mitigation Change As a result of current weak Viridor provides recycling and A reduced customer base, increased competition economic conditions compounded waste management services which by the recent spike in global affecting prices or reduced are locally delivered services from demand for services could commodity prices, Viridor is locally managed facilities and a experiencing increased competitive have a material adverse impact significant proportion of its revenue on Viridors financial position.
pressures in a number of areas of is contracted over the medium or its business, including in particular long-term.
In general terms Viridors recyclate volumes and prices, strategy is to establish a long-term landfill gate fees and bidding for sustainable competitive advantage Public Private Partnership in the business in which it operates: contracts PPPs.
this is designed to protect long-term shareholder returns.
Recycling has been recognised as an With regard to major competitive projects attractive business by an increasing being pursued there are barriers to entry number of businesses who are now due to planning permissions being difficult competing aggressively for volume to obtain and significant investment leading to depressed prices.
We believe there is competitive shake-out taking place among marginal competitors which will in due course benefit Viridor as a market leader.
There is significant consented EfW Over capacity in the UK EfW market Viridor has fully evaluated projected could impact demand for Viridors capacity in the UK which has yet demand and competing capacity for each to be built.
of its planned facilities and is confident that they can be filled profitably.
With landfill tax to reach 80 per tonne in April 2014, large scale energy from waste facilities of the type Viridor is building will be the low cost way of disposing of residual waste.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 45 Directors report - Business review - Group Principal risks and uncertainties Viridor continued Competitive pressures continued Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Reflecting government policies and trends there will be a need for around 20 million tonnes of capacity in the UK in 2020.
When reviewing current competing projects and take account of planning barriers, financing difficulties and the lack of further large base load municipal contracts, it is expected that there will be a capacity shortfall of up to 25%.
Of the 2.5 million tonnes capacity Viridor is committed to operating by 2020 more than half 1.3 million tonnes is already backed by long-term municipal contracts.
Over capacity in parts of Europe could Some waste is being converted The costs of producing SRF to the required impact the UK EfW market.
into solid recovered fuel SRF and, quality and of shipping it to Europe are in the absence of sufficient EfW capacity significant.
Disposal and generation of the in the UK, is being sent under EA associated renewable energy in EfWs in the UK licence for disposal in adjacent parts is generally lower cost and better for the UK of Northern Europe where there economy.
Nevertheless small amounts of SRF is currently surplus capacity.
may continue to be exported especially if UK EfW capacity remains insufficient.
Business systems Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Information technology Some of Viridors IT systems Viridor has increased its IT management and business continuity systems require replacement, development and technical resources accordingly.
and processes may fail which or upgrading to meet the growing It also has a comprehensive development may cause material disruption requirements of the business.
programme and plans in place to address to Viridors business and could have the deficiencies identified and seek to ensure a material adverse impact on both business continuity in the event of failure.
its financial position and reputation.
Nevertheless Viridor recognises the risks associated with IT upgrades.
In some areas new technology being Project Enterprise, charged with developing introduced may not operate or perform a fully scaleable Enterprise Resource Planning according to stated specification ERP type platform is now well advanced, requirements.
led by the Director of Business Transformation with external professional assistance as required.
Nevertheless this is a major project which, as with all IT systems, carries risks.
Existing systems are beginning to prove Project Enterprise is significantly addressing inadequate or are unsupported which these issues as a matter of priority.
may lead to an inability to perform key Pennon Group business functions.
Group Finance and funding Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The Group may be unable Access to finance and funding The Company has robust treasury to raise sufficient funds to finance costs may be adversely affected policies in place.
its activities or such funds may by perceived credit rating be only available at higher cost.
and prolonged periods of market volatility or liquidity.
There are covenant limits and restrictive obligations on borrowing and debt arrangements.
46 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Risk Commentary Mitigation Change The Group had 1.15 billion of cash Policies include always having pre-funded and facilities as at 31 March 2013 at least one years estimated cash flow including around 0.8 billion of new through cash and or committed facilities refinanced facilities sourced during and ensuring no more than 20% of net the year.
borrowings mature in any one year.
In addition in respect of South West Water, the economic regulator has a statutory duty to ensure that it is able to finance its functions in the normal course.
The Group has to date obtained funding at lower effective average interest rates compared with many other companies in its sector and is well placed to meet the funding requirements of both South West Water and Viridor in the foreseeable future.
Pensions Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Pension costs may increase All defined benefit schemes apart Employee and employer contributions due to higher costs for future from the Greater Manchester Waste are kept under review and a formal service and growing deficits PFI scheme have been closed actuarial valuation is being undertaken in relation to past service in the to new entrants since April 2008. as at 31 March 2013. defined benefit schemes.
Indications are that the actuarial deficit Pension trustees keep investment has increased since the last valuation policies under review and use professional in 2010. investment advisers to seek to maximise investment returns at an appropriate level of risk.
Succession planning Risk Commentary Mitigation Change Pennons employees are Ensuring the right people in the right Succession plans are in place for Board the cornerstone to its success places at the right time does not happen Directors and senior management, and further development.
High by accident: it needs careful planning.
and further down the organisation quality, well motivated, trained as appropriate.
These are normally and competent people at all updated annually.
levels must be in place to ensure sustained business development.
Both South West Water and Viridor have introduced training and development programmes including apprenticeships, graduate training and management development.
Forward-looking statements This Business review contains forward-looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: cash flows: dividends: financing plans: business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive positions: growth opportunities: plans and objectives of management: and other matters.
These forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this business review, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in the light of relevant factors, including those set out in this section on principal risks and uncertainties.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 47
