Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Risk and uncertainties Macro risk Summary Description Mitigating actions Dependency on Like many digital media and content businesses, the Group is The Group constantly monitors changes in technologies, digital technologies dependent on third-party internet, mobile and other technology user behaviour and technological trends which could affect and communications and service providers to deliver its products and services.
positively or negatively the sustainability, usability and networks: changes in Management focus continually on ensuring that the Group has economic viability of its products and services.
Itactively technologies, macro in place robust arrangements with appropriate third parties.
deploys available product, development and other business dynamics resources to minimise adverse impact that may result.
and user behaviour However, ultimate control of many platforms and technologies is out of Managements control.
The operation of these platforms and technologies may be the subject of unexpected change or failure: changes in the terms on or means by which they are available may adversely impact the Groups businesses and or its customers: and continuous development in the speed, capacity and capability of key platforms and technologies which is important to the expansion of the Groups products, territorial reach and economics may not be successful.
Macro economics The Groups revenue streams are dependent on the overall Although macro economic trends are out of Managements vs. revenue and macro economic environment at both global and national control, at the heart of the Groups growth strategy is the geographic diversity levels.
These could affect the appetite of its business diversification and geographical expansion of the Groups customers to purchase the Groups products services and revenues as delivered through both the Groups M&A advertising sponsorship inventory, and or the disposable activity and continued growth of its organic businesses.
income of the Groups direct consumer customers.
Adverse Management considers that this revenue and geographic economic headwinds in the key business sectors in which the diversity insulates the Group well against all but extreme Groups business customers operate could also impact the economic circumstances as demonstrated by the Groups Groups results.
continued growth during recent years.
Regulatory change The Group operates businesses across a range of sectors and The Group actively monitors laws and regulations applicable and the costs of jurisdictions.
Regulatory change could occur which adversely to it and its customers, especially as it expands into new compliance affects one or more parts of the Groups business and which territories.
The Group has recently appointed a senior lawyer may impact the Groups results.
In particular, although the to the post of Head of Regulatory Affairs and continues Group does not undertake activities in the betting sector to implement appropriate compliance programmes.
As that are directly regulated, all of the Groups betting operator the Groups businesses expand, the costs of compliance customers are regulated and regulatory change affecting will grow, but they are kept in close check by a prudent, betting operators could impact their appetite or ability to buy proportionate risk-based approach to compliance.
or use certain of the Groups services e. g. Watch&Bet.
Laws regulating digital consumer products and services, consumer data, digital audio-visual distribution and media content are also of specific relevance to the Group.
Rights costs Competition from third parties for certain rights is strong.
This The Group has a specific team focussed on the acquisition andmargin may result in the Group choosing not to acquire certain rights and management of rights.
Management continuously or being outbid for them.
The Group may also experience assesses the Groups requirements for rights-cleared content increased costs for those rights which it does acquire.
The loss including careful assessment of the economic viability of of certain rights may result in some of the Groups products each set of rights in order to ensure that it makes strategically and services becoming less attractive to business customers appropriate and economically informed decisions.
The Group and or consumers.
has a highly-developed approach to the selection of rights and the scheduling of content in its services to ensure that value is derived from the rights purchases it makes.
Protection of the The digital ecosystem brings with it an inherent risk of content The Group monitors infringement of its content, brands and Groups content, piracy and rights IP infringement.
If substantial piracy of intellectual property rights and continues to develop a range brands and certain of the Groups content were to occur this may diminish of strategies with which to respond where required.
The intellectual property demand for or the value of some of the Groups services.
Groups recently appointed Head of Regulatory Affairs has Imitation or passing-off of the Groups brands could result in specific responsibility for the management and protection of diminution in the value of those brands and infringement or the Groups proprietary intellectual property.
Content piracy theft of the Groups proprietary intellectual property could and intellectual property rights infringement are not currently result in the damage to the Groups businesses and the value considered by Management to be a material risk to the Group of that IP.
Infringement of the rights in third-party content and the costs and resources incurred in dealing with this risk are used by the Group could result in the Group being liable to prudent and proportionate.
All arrangements under which the compensate third parties and or the suspension or loss of the Group acquires rights to use content, brands and or intellectual affected content.
property are considered carefully by the Groups legal function to ensure that appropriate protections are incorporated.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Risk and uncertainties continued Group risks Summary Description Mitigating actions The Groups Reliance on key technologies and operations, integrations The Group devotes significant management time and technology and and development: The Groups business is naturally reliant resource to the identification and mitigation of risks relating operations on its technology and operational functions to support and to its technology and operations, which are key to its develop its platforms, systems and infrastructure to meet the businesses.
It has significant experience in these matters needs of the Groups businesses.
and Management regard the technological and operational risks faced by the Group as in-line with expectations in the At any given time the Group is undertaking a number of context of a fast-growing and acquisitive business.
strategically significantly development activities, and failure or delay in delivering them could have an adverse effect on the Groups results or prospects.
Some of these activities are complex, cutting-edge and require substantial innovation.
The Group is also working continuously to integrate its multiple organic and acquired platforms, technologies and operations so as to derive maximum value and efficiency from its assets.
Some of these integrations are operationally and technologically complex and all change is inevitably accompanied by risk: if not executed successfully or on time scales anticipated, the Group may fail to realise the full potential value of and synergies between its constituent parts and this may affect its economic performance.
The Group is also highly conscious of the risks associated with changes in the availability of or support for key third-party technologies and services that are critical to the Groups operations: the need to give continuous focus to ensuring that it has adequate disaster recovery plans and facilities: appropriate security technology and associated policies: and the capabilities necessary to support its live operations and sufficient and experienced personnel capable of managing the risks associated with running whilst integrating multiple technical platforms.
Failure of or defects in any one or more of these aspects of the Groups operations could impact continuity of those operations and the Groups results.
The Groups financial Exchange risk: A significant portion of the Groups revenues Management prepare cashflow forecasts by currency and and legal affairs, and and costs are in Euros and Dollars, and the Group is attempt, where possible, to naturally hedge the Groups its people increasingly exposed to trading in other currencies.
Management will continue to carefully monitor the could be exposed to adverse movements in the currencies in Groups cashflow and consider alternative arrangements if which it trades.
there is a material unhedged exposure.
Tax: Adverse changes in taxation could affect the Groups Management work closely with external tax advisers on an results and the Group could be exposed to a variety of tax ongoing basis to mitigate tax risks.
Content liability: The Group produces and handles very The Group requires that its editorial staff abide by an substantial volumes of content.
If use of an item of content editorial code of practice.
Content produced is reviewed breaches a third-partys rights, applicable law or regulation, against that code by its senior and managing editors prior or otherwise carries legal risk for example, because it is to publication to ensure suitability for each geographical found to be defamatory the Group may be subject to legal market it is published in.
or regulatory proceedings, penalised and or required to compensate third parties: resulting costs may impact the Groups financial performance and the Group may experience reputational damage.
Personal data: The Group continues to grow its direct to The Group continues to invest in the legal and regulatory consumer business and uses or controls increasing quantities compliance function, which grew significantly in 2013. of personal data.
If the Group does not adequately protect and Management regularly assess the legal and regulatory manage this data it may be exposed to risk of non-compliance requirements of the Group and adjust the level of resource with applicable laws.
44 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Group risks Summary Description Mitigating actions Organisational change: As the Group continues to The Group appointed its first Chief Personnel Officer in expand and mature it will engage in sometimes substantial March 2013 and has continued to invest in its HR function, organisational change in order to ensure that its people which grew significantly in 2013.
This function will support structure and resources are appropriate for its needs.
the business as it continues to grow and evolve.
Organisational change programmes carry an inherent degree of risk.
The Group may not always be able to effect change as rapidly or in the manner it anticipates.
Delays or unexpected changes to change programmes may impact the Groups operations and its results.
The Groups business M&A: The Group continues to pursue opportunities for The Group is accumulating significant M&A experience expansion including geographic through mergers and in the sector in which it operates and continues to make acquisitions.
This activity may not be successful and the Group valuable resources available to the team responsible may not achieve technical and or other synergies as quickly as for M&A to ensure that opportunities are explored and it anticipates.
Traffic shift to mobile: Digital advertising and sponsorship The Group continues to invest in mobilising all of its inventory is growing rapidly on mobile devices, but across products to ensure equal usability for the users accessing many parts of the digital media industry mobile inventory our services via a smartphone.
Additionally, all our revenues are growing less quickly than the traffic itself.
This advertising and sponsorship publishers now include a trend may affect the Group to some extent and impact the strong element of mobile inventory, which is driving growth.
Groups ability to monetise its inventory assets, which may in turn impact its results.
Products: Constant technological and user behaviour changes Management are highly focussed on ensuring that the necessitate that the Group engages in continuous and Group makes maximum progress in this respect, but the sometimes rapid product development.
Groups strategy or its product innovations may not be successful or may take longer to deliver to the market or monetise than anticipated.
This could impact the Groups economic performance.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
