Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 28 How we manage risk Persimmon has a long established and effective framework for identifying, monitoring andmanaging the risks faced by the Group.
It is managements role to implement the Boards policies on risk control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
Our risk management process Board t Sets the Group strategy Identify Areas of key focus t Establishes the policy to reduce risk t Ensures appropriate financial controls are available t Regularly monitors Group risks Mitigate Implement control processes Monitor Ensure compliance Audit Committee t Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reportingprocess Review Principal risks t Approves the Group Risk Managers annual risk management programme t Reviews the effectiveness of internal controls t Monitors the statutory audit Key areas of focus during 2013 Quality of new land investment Risk Committee t Determines appropriate control procedures are in place t Reviews Group performance against budget and forecasts Monitoring health and safety policy and procedures t Involvement in each operating business managementmeetings t Reviews reports from the Group Risk, the Health and Safety Director and the Corporate Responsibility Committee Reviewing Group sales and marketing policy and procedures Review of upgrade of information technology Group Risk Department t Risk based programme of internal audit project work Review of the carrying value of the Groups landbank t Compliance testing and assurance t Production of KPI data on the Groups key risks t Maintenance of Group Risk Register Review of shared equity fair value Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 29 Principal risks Risk Impact Mitigation The Board has adopted its strategy The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board Strategy asitbelieves it is the one most likely to add at anannual strategy meeting and thereafter thegreatest value for shareholders and regularly reviewed at Board meetings and stakeholders.
It is possible that, with time, by the Executive Directors.
The Board factors become known that indicate that the engages withmanagement and employees strategy currently being pursued is not the to ensure the strategy is communicated and most effective or efficientand that alternative understood and that all employees have a strategies may be more appropriate.
clear understanding ofthe potential benefits andrisks of thestrategy.
The housebuilding industry is sensitive to We control the level of build undertaken by National and regional changesin unemployment, interest rates closely managing our work inprogress levels.
Any deterioration We carry out extensive duediligence prior to ineconomic conditions may significantly our land investment decisions tocapture best decrease demand and pricing for new homes, returns.
We monitor our geographical spread which could have a material effect on our to mitigate the effects of local microeconomic business revenues, margins and profits and fluctuations.
result in theimpairment of asset values.
Any restrictions in the market availability of We ensure construction is matched to our Mortgage availability mortgages for our customers could reduce level of sales.
We can use shared equity demand for our homes and affect revenues, schemes to enable buyers with small deposits margins and profits.
Our business is subject to extensive and We operate comprehensive management Regulatory compliance complex laws and regulations principally systems to ensure regulatory compliance relating to planning, the environment and andreduction in reputational risk, health and safety.
Our obligations tocomply particularly relating to the health and safety with legislation can result in delays causing of our workforce, customers and visitors.
usto incur substantial costs and prohibit or We hold alandbank sufficient to provide restrict land development and construction.
security of supply for short to medium term Non compliance could also result in damage requirements.
Our ability to continue to manage our The Group actively maintains an appropriate Capital requirements business may depend on our ability to access mixture of medium and long term debt capital on appropriate terms.
Wecould facilities and bonding lines to ensure be adversely affected by a change in our sufficient funds and bonding are available creditrating or disruption in the capital to support operations.
The Group regularly markets resulting incredit facilities not being reviews itsforecast capital requirements to available.
We also require access to bonding ensure these facilities are sufficient to support facilities to secure planning, road andsewer anticipated demand.
Persimmon Plc Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 Annual Report December 2013 30 30 New communities where people want to live Meadow Brook, Stotfold, Bedfordshire Persimmon Homes
