Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our principal risks The principal risks and uncertainties we face are outlined below.
These are the most significant risks that could have adverse impact on our financial position or business performance.
Their occurrence could therefore reduce the likelihood of us achieving our strategic goals.
Our business risk systems, combined with the Boards ownership of strategic risk, ensure that a risk management culture is embedded in business.
Details and 2013 developments are included in the Board Details of how our risk Risk Committee Report on pages 86 to 91. framework has evolved: pages 88 to 91 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market risks See the Group Chief Over-exposure to a single As we pursue our business strategy, we are achieving a more balanced Executives foreword page 17 market risk geographic and business model mix.
We are also working across the for details on how we are The risk of over-concentration entire life cycle of our customers assets from early development right diversifying our business model.
in a particular market through to decommissioning.
When considering the entry into new territories, or extending our activities in existing territories, our plans are reviewed by the Group Risk Committee.
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews the overall concentration risk.
We also take all reasonable measures to reduce and limit our commercial exposure in each territory.
This includes regular security risk assessments, careful selection of contracting parties, out-of-country arbitration, advance payments, and disciplined cash management.
See our Sovereign and Counterparty risks We aim to minimise our cash ow exposure on contracts, especially Financial Market Risk Policy The risk of financial or where we deploy capital alongside our services such as in certain IES available from our website: commercial exposure if contracts.
We will only do so where we are comfortable with the level of www.
com governancedownloads counterparties such as key counterparty risk and with the contractual terms and conditions.
financial institutions, customers, We regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that our financial assets partners, subcontractors are spread across a number of creditworthy financial institutions and that or vendors default on limits are not breached.
Our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy requires that material financial counterparty risk is only held with counterparties that are rated by Standard and Poors as A or better or the equivalent Moodys rating.
Financial Counterparty Risk is managed by Group Treasury.
The Board Risk Committee has established specic limits for financial counterparties.
Liquidity risk We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we always maintain an See note 29 to the financial statements.
The risk arising if we were adequate level of liquidity in the form of readily available cash, short-term not able to meet our investments or committed credit facilities.
As the Group has grown, we are investing more of our surplus cash into strategic investments and other opportunities, particularly in IES.
In 2013 we launched our inaugural bond issue as a means to invest in the business and secure additional liquidity.
The Board Risk Committee has dened a minimum level of liquidity that must be maintained.
Additionally, the Board has set a target for the maximum level of leverage.
Cash ow forecasting is carried out across allservice lines on aregular basis to identify any funding requirements well in advance.
28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market risks continued Investment risks As the Group moves into new geographies and competes for larger, The risk that poor investment more integrated projects, the Board is required to sanction more complex decisions could negatively bids and investments.
In doing so, it assesses the level of project impact our business.
management discipline and executive capability behind them, to satisfy itself that the right mix of risk and reward is established.
This includes investments in the business itself, and co-investment in our customers assets as is often the case with IES contracts.
Business disruption risks We face a range of political risks in a variety of territories, including the Despite some continuing unrest in the Middle East and The risk of exposure to civil or possibility of unforeseen regime change as well as legal or regulatory North Africa during 2013, our political unrest, civil war, regime changes.
The Board regularly monitors the changing political landscape, activities suffered minimal change or sanctions that could particularly in those countries regarded as unpredictable.
disruption see page 56 for details.
Security risk assessments are carried out in all high risk territories before There is also a risk that IT entering into new contracts.
Careful consideration is also given to project, The effective evacuation security failings could result investment and income exposures, and to the associated contract terms of our In Salah gas plant in the loss of commercially and conditions.
As well as facing external cyber-security threats, almost in Algeria helped us sensitive data.
every business is increasingly dependent on the on-going capability and to test and rene our reliability of its IT platforms.
Across Petrofac we are alert to the related related procedures.
risks, and conscious of the need to be able to respond effectively to any far-reaching systems failure.
Commodity or currency risks The majority of Group revenues are denominated in US dollars or See note 29 to the financial statements for details of our significant movements in currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In instances where we are procuring oil and gas derivative exchange rates could impact our equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, we use forward instruments and foreign financial performance.
currency contracts to hedge any related exposures.
currency exposures and how they are managed.
Also, volatility in oil and gas OPOs revenues and costs are principally denominated in sterling.
prices could inuence the level However, we choose not to hedge these revenues as they are Over the medium term, of investment in the industry substantially matched by the sterling costs of our corporate ofce growth in IES is expected and, hence, the demand for andother UK-based activities.
to be primarily driven by our services.
As detailed in the Operating Environment section, we expect demand Risk Service Contracts and The financial performance of for our services to remain robust and to be largely insulated from any Production Enhancement IES is more susceptible to oil short-term uctuations in oil and gas prices.
However, we do recognise Contracts, where we have and gas price volatility due to the impact that a fall in oil prices could have on our future backlog less exposure to changing Production Sharing Contracts and margins.
Under our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy we aim to hedge, on a rolling annual basis, the net profit exposure from at least 75% of our low-estimate of production.
However, we do not begin hedging until a development has achieved steady-state production.
Operational and contractual risks Customer concentration risks The Board regularly monitors the total value of contracts by customer to Under our operating The risk of over-exposure to any ensure that we are not overly dependent on any one relationship.
framework for managing one customer and the impact such risks, we have a In ECOM, our customer-base is already widely disaggregated.
We are this could have if the relationship number of relevant policies, also working towards a larger client portfolio for IES.
Through our were to be jeopardised including our Operational business strategy, we are progressively diversifying our business in and Contractual Risk Policy.
termsof service lines locations and business models.
In addition, we have a formal programme of regular, senior level dialogue with our major customers to understand and pre-empt any concerns they may have.
29 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our principal risks continued Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Operational and contractual risks continued Competition risks As noted in the Operating Environment section, we expect the demand See the Group Chief Executive Foreword page The risk of a significant change for our services to remain robust over the long term.
17 for details on how we are to the marketplace dynamics diversifying our business.
Our business strategy assumes that a high level of competition will and the ways in which this could continue but our progressive diversication continues to grow the size threaten our market position or of our addressable market.
Bid-to-win ratios and segmental competition is regularly analysed to monitor this risk.
Environmental, asset integrity Our strong culture of health, safety and environmental awareness See page 55 for details ofourrecorded incident and safety risks is central to our operational and business activities.
This culture is performance as well as The risk of experiencing a continually re-emphasised and is supported by our operating framework ourrelated policies and serious environmental, asset and its associated management processes and systems including our processes.
integrity or safety incident and Asset Integrity Framework.
the commercial and reputational We also have a wide variety of controls embedded within the business damage that could be caused.
including: HSSEIA processes, safety case management processes, major accident hazard risk assessments and audits, and regular monitoring of integrity management and maintenance schedules.
For all of our contracts, the respective management teams also review the commercial arrangements with clients, maintain emergency preparedness plans and review insurance coverage.
Contractual performance We have a strong track record of successful project execution from bid See our Operational and Contractual Risk Policy submission through to project completion, which demonstrates our risks available on our website: The fact that we work on a rigorous approach to risk identication and mitigation.
com status on all key projects is regularly reviewed by senior management relatively small number of governancedownloads very large contracts and the and reported to the Board.
implications for our financial Our design integrity assurance processes involve the robust challenge performance if any of these of all specications including peer-review assessment, as well as oncontracts were to be disrupted.
Also, our subcontractor risk management strategy involves the retention of competent subcontractors with a track record of delivery.
We always seek to avoid liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which we could not reasonably be held responsible.
We also monitor the level of insurance provision and the extent to which we could bear the financial consequences of a major disruption.
Risk transfer arrangements We maintain an insurance programme to provide mitigation against If we are unable to transfer significant losses.
This programme is consistent with general industry certain risks to the insurance practice, and it also incorporates a captive insurance vehicle.
market due to the availability or All insurance policies that we purchase are subject to certain limits, cost of cover, for example, we deductibles and specic terms and conditions.
In addition, insurance could be exposed to material premium costs are subject to changes based on various facts including: uninsured losses.
a particular companys loss experience: the overall loss experience of the insurance markets accessed: and capacity constraints.
30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Operational and contractual risks continued Organisation and Given our ambitious growth targets, it is necessary for Petrofac See pages 58 to 61 for details of people and resourcing succession risks to attract and retain significant numbers of appropriately qualied programmes and the related The availability of sufciently employees.
We have therefore developed a more systematic, developments in 2013 skilled, experienced and capable Group-wide approach to talent management.
personnel particularly at We regularly review our resourcing needs, and aim to identify and senior levels is one of the most nurture the best people through talent and performance management, significant challenges facing the linked to effective succession planning and recruitment.
We remain confident that our policies to attract, train, promote and reward our people will be sufficient for the Group and will enable us to meet our strategic goals.
Ethical, social and regulatory risks Major breaches of our Our Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours we expect of our See our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy Code of Conduct employees and the third parties we work with including suppliers, available on our website: The risk that employees or suppliers contractors, agents and partners.
We have a full programme of www.
com may fail to live up to our high ethical on-going activity to embed this Code of Conduct across the Group.
governancedownloads standards and the consequent impact on our reputation.
We are also disciplined in monitoring and managing the social impacts of our operations, as set out in our Social Performance Standard.
This includes supporting and investing in local communities affected by our operations.
We seek assurances that the third parties we employ comply with our Code of Conduct and the principles set out in our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy, and our Social Performance Standard.
In addition, our external affairs risk reviews help to identify possible areas of exposure and to ensure that we put appropriate controls in place.
Major regulatory breaches Our business is conducted in a growing range of territories, and is See page 57 for details of ourCode of Conduct and the including bribery and therefore subject to a broad range of legislation and regulations.
ways in which it is embedded corruption across the Group.
The Group has an anti-corruption compliance programme that The potential financial and seeks to manage related risks across all of our business activities.
reputational risk that would arise This programme recognises the requirements of the UK Bribery Act if any of our employees or third See our Bribery and 2010, and focuses on training, monitoring, risk management and parties were to breach local or Corruption Standard due diligence.
available on our website: international laws.
com Our management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence and governancedownloads risk assessment.
In recent years, we have increased the level of due diligence for new contracts in higher-risk countries.
Where appropriate, this includes the commissioning of independent investigations.
We continue to re-emphasise our independently managed whistleblowing line, available to all employees as well as third parties and are fully committed to investigating any suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct.
31 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business model in action Boosting the production 45% ofageingassets boost in production An innovative commercial approach is part Magallanes and Santuario, Mexico ofthe story.
Since taking responsibility for the Magallanes and Santuario Production Enhancement 10% Under the terms of the 25-year contract, we Contracts, we have boosted output by 45% receive a 75% reimbursement for our capital increase in resource base since we took over operations, and the investment and operating expenditure, known resource base is up by more than plus a tariff for every barrel of incremental 10% which means that PEMEX has seen a production.
This means we are remunerated significant increase in both the scale and the for the value we bring yet PEMEX retains 90% efficiency of its assets.
ownership and control of its assets.
of employees are Mexican Originally commissioned in the early 1960s, Building on our success, we have now been these oilelds had been largely ignored in awarded two more PEMEX contracts.
favour of other, better producing elds, and We are, of course, recruiting and training only one in ten of the drilled wells remained 25 years productive.
But, drawing on our broad-based locally.
Ninety per cent of our employees are Mexican, and four in ten work within their own capabilities, we knew that a combination a long-term relationship with of innovation, focus and hard work could home state.
PEMEX maximise the inherent resources we knew theelds still retained.
32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 33 33
