Strategic report managing RiSkS The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 44 to 53. kEy RiSkS Achieving Playtechs strategic goals while minimising some of the key risks the business faces will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
business Risk management at Playtech IntEGRAtED RISk AUDIt AND PlAytEcH Regulatory Risk BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT RISk & BOARD MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE cOmPlIAncE financial Risk SYSTEM COMMITTEES Other Risks The Regulatory Environment: Impacts on Reputation and Revenues Risk mitigation The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from regulators, The Group has an established compliance function that maintains principally for its activities as a software provider issued by the UK relationships with regulators, monitors the regulatory environment closely Gambling Commission and the Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
and ensures continuation of all necessary licences and permits that allow Loss of all or any of these licences may adversely impact on the revenues the Group to continue its current business.
and or reputation of the Group Risk mitigation The Group licences its products to operators in the online gambling As an established regulated supplier to the online gambling industry, the industry whose ability to operate in any jurisdiction may be impacted Company is vigilant over legal and regulatory issues that could apply to its by changes in regulations, or failure to obtain any necessary licences.
activities not only in those jurisdictions where the Company is located, but Laws and regulations relating to the supply of gambling services are also in the jurisdictions where its licensees are accepting bets and wagers complex, inconsistent and evolving and the Group may be subject to from end users, using Playtechs software and services.
Under the terms such laws indirectly, insofar as it has assisted the supply to licensees who of its agreements with its licensees, the Group prohibits the acceptance of are themselves subject to such laws and so subject to enforcement risks.
players from certain identified jurisdictions.
Risk mitigation New licensing regimes may impose conditions, such as the requirement The Group closely monitors developments in jurisdictions seeking to to locate significant technical infrastructure within the relevant territory or introduce new licensing regimes and seeks to establish joint venture establish and maintain real-time data interfaces with the regulator that relationships, or other close contractual relationships, with key local present operational challenges, or may prohibit the ability of licensees to operators with influence on the development of local regulation.
In addition, offer the full range of the Groups products.
through the participation of the Group in industry bodies such as the Remote Gambling Association, it seeks to influence the shape of new licensing regulations.
Changes in Taxation of Group Revenue: Impacts on Net Earnings Risk mitigation The Group benefits from favourable arrangements in some of the The Group works closely with its tax advisers to review its tax position, jurisdictions in which it is established.
Changes in taxation legislation and undertake periodic tax audits and monitor any changes in tax legislation.
rates may impact the Groups net earnings and cash flows.
Playtech plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Competitive Landscape: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues Risk mitigation The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is the related The Group continues to invest significant resources in research and software and services industry that supports it.
Failure to compete development in order to enhance its technology, products, content and effectively may result in the loss of licensees and also the inability to services, and in making acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies, attract new licensees.
products and services that it can offer to licensees.
The Economic Climate: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues Risk mitigation The vast majority of the Companys revenue is generated as a share of Playtechs licensees are geographically diverse, which should mitigate the revenue of its customers.
Any downturn in consumer discretionary reliance on any particular region.
Management closely monitors spending could result in reduced spend by consumers on gambling and business performance and if a downturn were to occur remedial action, the Groups revenues would fall.
commensurate with the nature and scale of the slow down, could be taken.
Reliance on Key Personnel: Impacts on Revenues Risk mitigation The Groups future success depends in large part on the continued The Group has a comprehensive performance evaluation system to service of executive directors, senior managers and key personnel, the identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are appropriately retention of whom cannot be guaranteed.
rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives linked to the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Cash Management Risk: May Lead to Loss of Shareholder Funds Risk mitigation Playtech has significant cash balances, which may be used to acquire The Company has made a number of very successful, value creating other businesses.
Such acquisitions may not deliver the expected acquisitions and has an established process in place and experienced staff synergies and or benefits and may destroy shareholder value.
to conduct thorough due diligence before completing any transaction.
Playtech has significant cash balances and is therefore exposed to Playtech holds its cash and cash equivalents in a number of AAA rated counterparty credit risks.
banks and financial institutions to mitigate the risk of a default.
Business Continuity and Technology Risk: Impacts on Revenues Risk mitigation The Group and its licensees are constantly vulnerable to hacking, The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect any intrusion or Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attacks, malicious acts other security breeches, together with preventative measures safeguarding and cybercrime.
against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information technology systems.
In addition, the Group has put in place disaster recovery processes.
The Groups ability to compete effectively depends amongst other things, The Group registers patents and trademarks, where this is possible, to on its ability to protect, register and enforce, as appropriate, its intellectual protect key aspects of its intellectual property.
In addition, proprietary and property rights.
or confidential information, and IP is protected through legal and physical security process and Playtech vigorously defends itself against thirdparty claims.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Financial statements Governance strategic report
