Principal Risks and Uncertainties The board acknowledges its clear responsibility for risk management.
The board uses a risk framework which is designed to support the process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial and non-financial risks.
There is an ongoing process in place for Internal audit work is undertaken by an The Audit Committee has also received identifying, evaluating and managing the independent firm of chartered accountants reports from management in relation significant risks faced by the Group, which who develop an annual internal audit plan to specific risk items together with reports has operated throughout the year.
The having reviewed the Groups risk register from external auditors, who consider Groups risk management framework is and following discussions with external controls only to the extent necessary to auditors, management and members designed to support this process, giving form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the Audit Committee.
The system visibility and control of both financial and non-financial risks.
This process involves of internal control is designed to manage, regular assessment of the Groups risk During the year the Audit Committee rather than eliminate, the risk of failure register by the Audit Committee.
In line has reviewed reports covering the work to achieve business objectives and it must with best practice, the register includes undertaken as part of the annual internal be recognised that it can only provide an assessment of the impact and likelihood audit plan.
This has included assessment of reasonable and not absolute assurance of each risk together with the controls the general control environment, identification against material misstatement or loss.
in place to manage the risk.
of control weaknesses, quantification of any associated risk together with a review of the The principal risks and corresponding status of actions to mitigate these risks.
mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that the board believes may impact the Groups ability to deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
Risks Relating to the Group Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Adverse publicity in relation Adverse publicity in relation to the Group or its It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees brands could have an adverse impact on the operate within the boundaries of compliance in the to the Group or its brands.
Groups reputation sales and operatinN profits areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical working standards and these are regularly reviewed by the board and management committee The Group maintains and develops ISO9001 and 14001 systems which are subject to annual external audits with any non conformances actioned in a timely manner ithin the Group there is a clearly dened and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility 7olicy 8uality standards are well dened, implemented and measured The Groups product recall process is documented through the business continuity process and tested regularly Failure or unavailability The Group would be aected if there was a Assets within the Group are proactively managed catastrophic failure of its major production or whether this be intangible brand assets, plant and of the Groups operational distribution facilities which led to a sustained eXuipment, people or IT systems infrastructure.
loss in capacity or capability Robust disaster recovery and incident management plans exist and are formally tested Contingency measures are in place and are regularly tested Failure of the Groups Information The maintenance and development of Information IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and Technology systems may result in systems failures, procedures exist that support rapid and clean recovery Technology systems.
including cyber security breaches which may adversely Robust disaster recovery and incident management impact the Groups ability to operate plans exist and are formally tested Contingency measures are in place and are regularly tested Inability to protect the intellectual Failure to maintain the Groups intellectual The Group invests considerable eort in proactively property rights could result in the value of our protecting the intellectual property rights associated with property rights associated with brands being eroded its current and future brands, through trademark registration current and future brands.
and vigorous legal enforcement as and when reXuired 24 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Interruption to, or significant The packaging and raw material components that the The Group adopts centralised purchasing arrangements Group uses for the production of its soft drink products to ensure the best possible terms are negotiated change in the terms of, the are largely commodities that are subject to price and Groups supply of packaging Contingency measures exist and are tested regularly supply volatility that could have an adverse impact on and raw materials.
the Groups sales and operating profits Supplier performance is reviewed on a monthly basis Risk Impact Mitigating Actions and audits are undertaken for major suppliers Overall commodity risks are reviewed and managed by the purchasing and operations teams and reviewed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the board Together with the operations team, the Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability of the cost of supply and seeks to minimise potential related adverse eects on the Groups financial performance through either forward purchasing or hedging known commodity requirements Financial Risks.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial Financial risks are reviewed and managed by the risks which include market risk including medium term Treasury Committee whose remit and authority movements in exchange rates, interest rate risk and levels are set by the board commodity price risk, credit risk and liXuidity risk The Treasury Committee seeks to minimise adverse In the poor economic climate the risk of customer eects on the Groups financial performance through insolvency is increased hedging known currency exposures whilst reviewing the appropriateness of the interest rate hedging policy throughout the year The Groups finance team reviews cash ow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits oered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained Change programmes may not A number of change programmes designed to improve Appropriate governance structures are put in the eectiveness and eciency of the end to end place to provide the required frameworks to deliver the benets intended.
operating, administrative and financial systems and supervise, monitor, control, direct and manage processes continue to be undertaken There is a risk change programmes that these programmes will not fully deliver the These structures review the scope of change expected operational benets within the timescales programmes and related project plans and project expected There is also the risk that the change resources, monitoring progress against set deliverables programmes lead to disruption to production, External support is utilised when the Group is unable administrative and financial processes and could to support the project solely from internal resources impact customer service and or operating margins Increasing funding needs or The triennial valuation of the Groups dened benefit The Groups finance team works closely with the pension scheme may highlight a worsening funding Pension Scheme Investment Sub Committee and obligations in respect of the Groups position that requires the Group to invest additional the Pension Trustees to ensure that an appropriate pension scheme arrangements.
cash contributions or provide further assurance to Investment Strategy is in place to fund future pension cover future liabilities requirements at acceptable levels of risk Acquisition strategy fails to deliver Failure to deliver expected return could aect A robust initial evaluation and diligence process exists overall performance, net debt level, share price, which clearly outlines expectations relative to agreed expected returns via either market management credibility and or shareholder rates of return and clearly identies deliverables performance or under attainment appetite for future acquisitions of targeted synergies.
Sensitivity analysis of the key value drivers is also undertaken A dedicated integration and project management team is established pre completion and a 100 day plan established against which progress is actively monitored Finally, a six monthly review of performance relative to the acquisition model is undertaken A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued Risks Relating to the Market Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Failure to take account of A decline in sales of key brands or a failure to The Group oers a range of brands that it manufactures renew trading agreements on favourable terms and distributes through a cross section of trade channels changing market dynamics.
or reduction in the customer base could have and retailers Performance is monitored closely by an adverse impact on the Groups sales and the board and management committee This includes operating profits monitoring and tracking of metrics which review brand equity strength, together with monitoring of financial and operational performance The Group focuses heavily on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity Regular contact is maintained with all of the Groups major customers through regular sales force interaction and members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year Changes in consumer Consumers may decide to purchase and consume The Group oers a range of branded products across alternative brands or spend less on soft drinks a range of avours, subcategories and geographies preferences, perception which oer choice to the end consumer or purchasing behaviour.
Changing consumer preferences are reviewed annually by the board with reference to qualitative and quantitative research Spontaneous and prompted brand awareness levels are monitored in order to measure any changes in consumer knowledge of brands and or changes in brand equity strength Changes in regulatory Changing legislation may impact our ability to market The Group proactively engages with the relevant or sell certain products or could cause the Group to authorities, including the British Soft Drinks Association, requirements.
incur additional costs or liabilities that could adversely The Food Standards Agency and the General Counsel aect its business of Scotland to ensure full participation in the future development of and compliance with relevant legislation It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees are aware of their responsibilities and all applicable regulatory requirements Formal training sessions are undertaken throughout the year An audit against changing legislative requirements is undertaken annually by the in house legal team Potential impact of Changes to legislation may vary the taxation levels The impact of changes to the taxation legislation associated with the sale or consumption of soft drinks is reviewed regularly taxation changes.
which could impact sales and operating profits The Group will seek to remain commercially competitive by passing on any resulting cost dierential through price amendments to customers 26 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility KA The KAribbean taste of KA continued to grow in popularity with the brands still range growing by just under 10% in the year.
In this section: Corporate Social Responsibility Page 29 KA Karnival A. G. BARR backed the KA range with a summer-long burst of marketing support.
At the heart of the activity was a nationwide sampling campaign at some of the U. K. s busiest summer carnivals including Notting Hill, Europes biggest street festival.
Outdoor advertising also heightened consumer awareness of KA.
18 75 A unique range of great tasting flavours since 1875
