Premier Farnell 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group are summarised below.
The disclosure of risks and uncertainties in the table below reectsthe ethos of the Company to also look for the  when addressing significant risks.
The Principal Risks are formally reviewed, twice per year by the Board.
Updates in terms of emerging risks or significant actions undertaken are addressed as and when required at Board meetings.
The Principal Risks are determined through an evaluation of likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, with a full review also undertaken by the GET, comprising the CEO direct reports.
Management also review specic strategic, operational, and financial and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the year: GET meetings: quarterly business reviews with each of the businesses: major programmes and project reviews: and at other key executive management meetings.
Risks and uncertainties Relative Mitigating actions Opportunity increase decrease compared toprior year European economy continues We have embedded processes which drive working capital management Our focus on meeting customers todeteriorate and cash ow at Group and across our businesses.
Wealso have requirements through the economic cycles, proven agility in driving cost reduction and working capital.
enhanced by the insights provided from data from our eCommerce channels, Our banking facilities and relationships are kept under constant review means we are able to respond rapidly and action taken when required.
The business regularly reviews its Euro cash deposits and collects unutilised cash on a regular basis.
Competitive pressures increase We are intently focused on the continual enhancement of our high We continue to implement strategic service customer proposition.
initiatives to build customer loyalty and initiatives targeted at vertical market We continue to build our high service proposition by adding new segments, which provide a differentiated technologies and a broad range of products working closely with proposition for our customer base.
suppliers as we provide end-to-end solutions throughout their product development process.
The fragmentation of the marketplace allows us opportunities given our strengths Our customers also benefit from our multichannel approach including of global reach and financial position to win innovative eCommerce channels.
business and create further barriers to entry from smaller competitors.
We have business intelligence processes to maintain our awareness ofmarket developments and competitor actions, along with our market share for the Group and at a detailed market level.
Competitive advantage in the We are continuously driving improvement to our transactional and The continued investment in and web channel is not maintained Community websites.
development of web functionality provides value to customers, meets their Our Web Advisory Board includes external subject matter experts, to requirements for information and provides provide advice and guidance to the Board and eCommerce team on Premier Farnell with insights to help the core areas of our web strategy.
The implementation of a new global web platform in 2013 14 will enable the Group to enhance its online proposition faster and more efficiently.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 31 Risks and uncertainties Relative Mitigating actions Opportunity increase decrease compared toprior year Recruitment, development or Our high potential talent is identied and nurtured through The creation of a high performing actively retention of talented people agreeddevelopment plans including a comprehensive mentoring engaged team which will consequently lead programme as well as a focus on succession planning for our key to improved business performance.
Byfocusing on training and development, customer relationships, leadership, social We actively measure the retention of talent within our organisation responsibility, and communications, the which provides us with the ability to track trends and act with the number of employees who are actively appropriate and necessary actions.
engaged at Premier Farnell is 73%.
We conduct annual employee engagement surveys to enable progress of our people actions to be monitored and areas of improvement identied and actions put in place.
Our reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
As we drive significant change throughout the organisation our competency development and evaluation processes are focused on encouraging change agility.
Through the strengthening of our diversity and inclusion team, the Groups focus on employee individuality, diversity and creativity has signicantly increased.
Development of talent through transfer across the business through international assignments.
Data and content quality A dedicated data function has been established to ensure compliance Continued investment in data and data inhibiteffectiveness of our with internal processes and external regulations.
management processes to provide our eCommerce strategy customers with high quality product A data strategy and governance framework has also been developed to information and suppliers with rich insights support the information requirements of our strategic programmes.
insufficient progress with We have a fully integrated multichannel sales and marketing plan aimed By enhancing and better targeting our improving performance in at addressing the needs of our customers, including a focus on specic offering we have an opportunity to NorthAmerica segmentation by type of customers and vertical industries.
signicantly improve operating performance in North America by taking market share and attracting customers to our online environment.
Failure to leverage the Ongoing focus from senior leadership team on the development of the We continue to invest and effect structural investment made in Asia Pacic markets in accordance with our strategic intent.
growth in our key Asia Pacic markets, Asia Pacic developing strong customer loyalty and Best practice and personnel leveraged from around the Group to market share growth in all of our Asia ensure delivery.
Investments in global inventory and renement of our proposition to enhance value-add services and solutions will signicantly benefit our customers in AsiaPacic.
significant failure or Business continuity plans are kept under review for all our locations.
We continually improve workows and inefficiencies in our Asan example of these contingencies, we have the ability to switch operational efficiencies and provide  order fullment in Europe between our Leeds and Liege distribution increased capacity and investment in centres.
Contingency plans are in place for our US warehouse and capability.
All of these allow the greater management systems.
We have maintained an ongoing review of our IT support of customers future requirements, infrastructure and conduct regular testing of our systems.
We will invest suppliers future needs and the ability to in our back-ofce systems to support our single front-end web platform leverage our product and legislative data.
over the next three to five years.
Legal and regulatory risks We have exposure to a number of countries and their respective legal The increase in environmental legislation compliance requirements are addressed through a variety of controls.
forelectronics, such as the introduction Trade compliance is a specic significant requirement which is ofREACH, allows us to provide real controlled through an experienced specialist team, automated valueto our customers through our screening enablers and ongoing training of our sales teams.
Compliance review meetings are held with senior management atGroup and within the regions.
