Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee is rigorous and effective in its role of monitoring: the integrity of the companys financial statements, and other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and the significant financial reporting judgements they contain: the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, including in particular as regards the identification of emerging risks and the effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate them, together with the results of the programme of reviews of these systems and managements response to the review findings: the effectiveness and objectivity of the companys Group Audit and Risk function, the David Lindsell appropriateness of its work plan, the results of reviews undertaken, and the adequacy Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of managements response to matters raised: the appropriateness of the companys relationship with the external auditor and the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and the enforcement of the companys code of conduct and the adequacy and security of its whistle-blowing procedure.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board, and are available on the companys website at www.
The Committees terms of reference were updated during the year to reflect the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, in particular to require the Committee to advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Throughout 2013 the Committee consisted of myself, Joe Darby and Michel Romieu all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Corporate Services Director, the Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs Manager and representatives of the external auditor.
Other executive directors or senior managers are required to attend when significant risk management or control issues relating to their area of responsibility are considered by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee meets privately with the Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs manager and with the external auditor.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and to make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Meetings The Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
Activities during the year The Committee met four times in 2013 and has met once in 2014 to date.
Its January and March 2013 meetings focused primarily on the status of the 2012 risk management and internal control reviews, the 2013 plan for such reviews, and the 2012 full-year audited results and Annual Report and Financial Statements together with the Committees annual review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
In January the Committee discussed the launch of a root-and-branch review during 2013 of the groups IT Security Policy.
In March the Committee reviewed progress in the development of the groups new HR Information System, previously identified as one of the risk areas for the group.
The Committee was also briefed on the Corporate Governance Returns for 2012 which had identified no material omissions, deficiencies, weaknesses or non-compliance issues in Premiers management systems.
At its August meeting the Committee reviewed the half-year results and discussed the external auditors report on its review of the half-year report and also considered the results of the group internal control reviews carried out in the first half of the year, the outcomes of and actions arising from a senior employee survey on risk culture, and progress in the development of a new corporate business management system.
The August meeting also received a presentation on Cyber Security, prompted by a number of government initiatives on this subject.
The Committee requested that it be kept updated on progress in managing risks in this area.
In December 2013 the Committee considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full-year results and the external auditors work plan, reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee, reviewed the status of the 2013 risk management and internal control reviews, focusing on the significant findings and actions, and reviewed and approved the scope of the 2014 audit plan for such reviews steered by the major business risks faced by the group.
68 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Activities during the year continued In February 2014 the Committee reviewed the 2013 full-year results and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, discussed with the external auditors its audit findings, and completed its annual review of the effectiveness of internal controls so as to be able to approve the statements on internal control and the management of risk in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and the independence of the auditor as a basis for considering reappointment, and reviewed its own effectiveness.
Risk management and internal control The Audit and Risk Committee continues to be responsible for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the groups risk management process designed to identify and mitigate the key risks facing the group.
There is an ongoing process of refinement and embedding of risk management best practice through the group in accordance with the principles and guidelines set out in ISO 31000.
Risk management and internal control in the group is discussed more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 and 66.
The Corporate Risk Register CRR is the principal record of information about identified risks and the controls in place to mitigate them, at departmental, asset project, business unit and corporate function levels.
Ongoing development and refinement of the CRR during 2013 has enabled risks and mitigating processes to be described in a more complete and consistent manner and the programme of financial and operational control reviews to be prioritised further against the most significant group business risks as ranked in the CRR.
CRR functionality is continuously being improved to allow risks assessed to have a significant potential impact which can be measured in terms of effect on net present value or other severity of consequence and a higher likelihood of occurrence to be flagged and referred automatically up to the next level s in the organisation, enabling more effective top-down monitoring of risk.
Group Audit and Risk An annual risk-based programme of audit and review is proposed to the Committee following discussion by Group Audit and Risk with functional and business unit management.
The Committee considers and approves the programme, and monitors and reviews the scope and results of the audits and reviews carried out at each meeting, receiving reports covering progress against plan, significant findings and the action plans in place to address them.
Some thirty reviews of aspects of risk management and internal controls in operations and corporate functions were carried out during the year.
In reviewing the findings from these reviews, the Committee noted that the work carried out had been increasingly directed towards the groups major risks, enabling the Committee to focus on the key issues and challenges facing the group.
Recommendations to improve internal controls and or to mitigate risks were agreed with the relevant business unit or corporate function management after each review and progress in implementing the recommendations was monitored by Group Audit and Risk.
The group continues to use both Premier staff with the necessary expertise and experience and third-party specialists to carry out the programme of review.
In addition the group obtains independent confirmation of the effectiveness of internal controls from a variety of external sources, including joint venture and governmental financial and operational audits.
Financial reporting The Committee reviewed the 2013 half-year and full-year financial results announcements and 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements with the Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and considered the findings from the external auditors review of the interim results and the audit of the 2013 financial statements.
The areas of focus for the Committee included consistency of application of accounting practices and policies: compliance with financial reporting standards, stock exchange and legal requirements: the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements in items subject to estimation: the going concern assumption: the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements: and, in relation to the Annual Report and Financial Statements, whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considered in particular the following major financial statement items that require significant judgement and estimation: Oil and gas reserves Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are principally measured based on managements estimates of proved and probable oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of proved and probable reserves are also used in the determination of impairment charges and reversals.
Proved and probable reserves estimates are based on a number of underlying assumptions including future oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, all of which are inherently uncertain.
The Committee considered reports from management on the process applied to calculate the reserves estimates, addressing in particular the extent to which the methodology and techniques applied by the company were generally accepted industry practice, whether the methodology and techniques applied were consistent with those applied in prior years, and the experience and expertise of the managers who prepared and reviewed the estimates.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 Impairment of oil and gas properties The determination of whether impairment of an oil and gas property has occurred and the extent of any such impairment or its reversal is necessarily based on a number of assumptions and judgements, relating in particular to future oil and gas prices, production volumes and costs together with the time value of money relating to the future cash flows involved.
The Committee received a detailed report on the outcome of the impairment review by management and noted that the oil and gas price assumptions were consistent with those used for budgeting and capital investment appraisal purposes and that production volumes were derived from the oil and gas reserves estimates discussed above, applying the same assumptions regarding future costs.
As explained in note 9 to the financial statements, an impairment charge of US$178.7 million was made in respect of the Balmoral area.
The Committee discussed with management the review that was carried out of the longer-term plans for the life of fields in the area and in particular the conclusion that additional maintenance and operating cost expenditure is expected to be required in order to ensure that remaining reserves will be extracted, together with greater decommissioning costs than previously anticipated, thereby reducing the recoverable amount of the asset and giving rise to the impairment loss.
The Committee was satisfied that the rates used to discount future cash flows appropriately reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific assets concerned.
Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets The Committee satisfied itself by reference to the groups business plan and discussion with management that, in respect of all exploration and evaluation assets, either commercially viable resources have been discovered or substantive expenditure on further exploration and evaluation activities in the specific area is budgeted or planned.
Decommissioning costs Estimates of the cost of future decommissioning and restoration of hydrocarbon facilities are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology and price levels, while estimates of when decommissioning will occur depend on assumptions made regarding the economic life of fields which in turn depend on such factors as oil prices and operating costs.
The Committee therefore discussed with management the estimation process and the basis for the principal assumptions underlying the cost estimates, noting in particular the reasons for any major changes in estimates as compared with the previous year.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach applied was fair and reasonable.
The Committee was also satisfied that the discount rate used to calculate the provision was appropriate.
Taxation The group currently produces oil and or gas in five countries and is subject to complex hydrocarbon and corporate tax regimes in each of them.
Judgements must be applied in order to make provision for the amounts of tax that are expected to be settled.
Also, in order to continue to recognise the substantial deferred tax asset relating to tax losses in the UK, it must be probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which the tax losses can be utilised.
This in turn requires assumptions about future profitability.
The Committee discussed with management the status of discussions with relevant tax authorities and considered managements views on open issues, together with any related professional advice from external tax advisers.
The Committee also discussed with management their projections of probable UK taxable profits to support the continued recognition of the deferred tax asset.
Based on these discussions the Committee concluded that managements judgements regarding uncertain tax positions and the provisions made, and the continued recognition of the deferred tax asset, were appropriate.
As well as reviewing the above areas with management, the Committee received written commentary from Deloitte LLP Deloitte on each of them in their paper to the Committee on their audit findings, and these matters were discussed in detail during our February 2014 meeting.
External audit Audit effectiveness The Committee reviewed the auditors work plan at the start of the audit cycle, considering in particular the auditors assessment of the significant areas of risk in the groups financial statements, which for 2013 corresponded with the major areas of judgement identified by the Committee discussed above, and the scope of their work.
At the conclusion of the audit, the Committee discussed with the auditor the findings of the audit, including key accounting and audit judgements, the level of errors identified during the audit, the recommendations made to management by the auditor and managements response.
The Committee met privately with the external auditor twice in 2013 and in February 2014 at the conclusion of the 2013 audit.
The Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, based on its own direct experience and on feedback from the corporate and business unit finance teams, and considered in particular: the experience and expertise of the audit team: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in handling the key accounting and audit judgements: and the quality of the auditors recommendations for financial reporting process and control improvements.
