22 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal Risks and Uncertainties On behalf of, and in consultation with, the Board of Directors, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks identified which may affect the Groups ability to deliver its Business model and strategy, and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Political and The Group conducts a substantial proportion of The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio: however, in economic instability its operations in emerging markets which have developing its corporate strategy and in order to help mitigate significant capacity for profitable growth, but the risk that could arise in any one particular territory, the which also have an increased risk of political Board seeks to maintain an appropriate balance both between andeconomic instability.
mature and emerging markets and, within the developing world, between its operations in different territories.
In addition, the Group has extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure that any specific risks or opportunities may be identified and addressed as they arise.
Demand risks Demand for the Groups products may be adversely Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected markets is a core impacted by changes in consumer preferences.
strategic pillar and the Group actively monitors the needs and aspirations of consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and The increasingly competitive environment and iscontinuously developing new products to satisfy them.
continued growth of discounters could adversely impact the rate of sales growth and profit margins.
The Group will continue to invest in selected brands and selected markets in order to drive profitable sales growth.
The Board believes that competition is healthy as it encourages and motivates the Groups operations across the world to do their best to serve the interests of consumers and our brands.
Raw materials In common with other companies within its The Group takes measures to protect against the shortterm sector, the Groups profitability is affected by impact of these fluctuations and shortfalls: however, failure price and supply fluctuations in raw materials torecover higher costs or shortfalls in availability could have used in the manufacture of its products.
Key anegative impact on profits.
The Group continually monitors items, such as oils and fats, packaging materials the price and availability of materials against forecast demand and energy are subject to fluctuations in price to ensure that there are adequate resources to continue in and availability.
The Group also continues to refine its raw material forecasting processes and to strengthen its procurement capabilities.
23 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Financial risks Foreign currency The international nature of the Groups activities The Group requires its operating units to hedge their material and treasury risk gives rise to both transactional exchange rate transaction exposures on sales and purchases conducted in risk with the main exposure relating to US Dollar currencies other than their functional currencies.
The Group trade balances and translation exposure when does not actively hedge its translation exposures as these are the results, assets and liabilities of foreign of an accounting rather than a cash nature: however, the subsidiaries are translated into Sterling.
international spread of the Groups operations itself reduces dependence on individual currencies.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function whichoperates on a nonspeculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results and support operating units in treasury matters.
Operational risks Staff retention and The Group recognises that in order to deliver The Board believes that there is an attractive employment recruitment sustained strong results it requires the right proposition across the Group in place which will continue calibre of people at all levels of the business.
toattract capable recruits and that key management and Inparticular, the Group must compete to recruit personnel are sufficiently well recognised, incentivised and and retain capable individuals within the challenged in order to retain them as far as possible.
business including training them in the skills andcompetencies which are required to deliverprofitable growth.
Reputation risks Should the Group fail to meet high product Product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards safety, social, environmental and ethical continue to be the cornerstones on which our business is standards in all operations and activities, its based.
They are key focus areas for the Corporate Social corporate reputation could be damaged, leading Responsibility Committee, a standing subcommittee of to the rejection of our products by consumers, theBoard.
Should any issues arise in these areas, the Group damage to brands and diversion of management hasprocesses in place to enable a quick response.
time into rebuilding our reputation.
