US Services continued Case study: Defense Solutions At the end of the year, the divisions two defence-focused At the end of the year the two defense focused businesses, SSE businesses Lifecycle Solutions and Software & Systems and Lifecycle Solutions, were integrated creating Defense Solutions.
Engineering, were integrated to create Defense Solutions, aligning existing programmes with business development initiatives and Software & Systems Engineering removing duplicated overheads.
Support the delivery of C4ISR and combat systems, software Aerospace Operations and Systems supports spaceflight through and IT testing, engineering and launch services and has expertise across Advice on systems engineering, procurement programmes all aspects of a space mission from design to launch.
Following and equipment lifecycles commencement of work in March 2011, revenue has continued to increase on the NASA Engineering Services Contract at the Kennedy Space Center.
The business also secured a 16-month extension to Lifecycle Solutions the contract for environmental test integration services at the Aviation expertise in condition-based maintenance Goddard Space Center.
Future opportunities exist to leverage this Help customers manage their fleets and supply chains growth in space services to compete for new business with NASA, as well as with commercial space companies and the United States Air Force USAF.
During the year, the business won new mission Our competitive advantage planning work with the USAFs Electronics Systems Center at the Highly skilled employees Hanscom Air Force Base, and was selected for the TAASC II IDIQ Key client relationships contract by the USAF Material Command.
Track record of improving value for money through tools Mission Solutions provides cyber security, enterprise information and process-based efficiencies technology and software solutions principally to non-defence customers including intelligence agencies and the Department of Leading edge open source, open architecture development Homeland Security DHS.
The majority of its employees have high levels of security clearance and work on customer sites.
During 50% 26% the year the business commenced the provision of cyber security Engineers and IT specialists services at the Department of Transportations Volpe Center to program protect US transportation control systems and critical national infrastructure.
It also received a $46m contract extension from managers the DHS for infrastructure support for the Customs and Border Protection Agency.
In IT and software solutions, the business 7% 11% is positioned in a highly competitive market and revenue has Logistics Training & come under pressure during the year, but there are future experts simulation opportunities for its higher end offerings such as the provision specialists of Cloud-based solutions.
Arlington VA Software & Systems Engineering helps the US Armed Forces, primarily the Navy and Marine Corps, deliver C4ISR and combat systems to operating forces.
20QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Case study: Aerospace Operations & Systems What we do Support spaceflight by testing software and spacecraft together with engineering and launch services Analyse scientific data and manage risks Our competitive advantage Highly skilled people Aerospace Operations and Systems is working to upgrade and modify the NASA crawler transporter, supporting NASAs space launch system.
Involved in all aspects of a NASA mission lifecycle from design to launch Program management of complex contracts The Group is nurturing a select number of Explore businesses including Cyveillance which identifies and responds to critical, real-time intelligence on the Internet that represents a threat or 55% 16% risk to its customers.
Its customer base, which includes the majority Engineers Systems of the US Fortune 50, is primarily financial services companies but and support developers among this years new awards were customers in the technology, service managers and analysts healthcare, FMCG, energy and professional services sectors.
Following the appointment of a new leader in October 2012, the business grew its revenues year-on-year, delivered improvements 17% 9% in productivity and introduced 24 7 operations.
Demand for cyber Program Technicians intelligence solutions is likely to increase with growing threats to managers people, infrastructure, Cloud-based systems, mobile devices and and operations brand reputation.
Cyveillance is responding to this demand by focusing on the delivery of commercial services, larger contracts and higher margin offerings, particularly those that aggregate both 3% physical and virtual threat information.
Greenbelt MD QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201321 Global Products Extending our offerings into wider markets Case study: Survivability Revenue was 254.9m 2012: 325.0m, a 21% decrease on an organic basis at constant currency, and was first half weighted, illustrating the What we do lumpy profile of the divisions revenue and its dependency on the Provide innovative products and solutions to US and allied timing of shipments of key orders.
Q-Net revenue was strong at governments, enabling them to protect people and assets, $120m but there was a reduction in demand for other conflict-related reduce operational costs and save lives products associated with the drawdown of the US troop presence in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Underlying operating profit fell 8% to 61.0m 2012: 66.2m as the reduction in revenues was partially offset by Our competitive advantage an improved mix of US product sales, which included a high proportion of spares, and a one-off credit of 6m relating to a contract extension Sound engineering, product-focused culture for additional work already undertaken in the UK.
Innovative, cutting-edge technology base Organic-Plus update Deep understanding of customer problems Global Products focuses on the provision of product-based solutions Advanced engineering capabilities enabling rapid innovation to meet customer requirements, complemented by contract-funded to meet urgent mission challenges research and development.
The division combines a cutting edge Effective, affordable and timely solutions technology base with an intimate understanding of customer problems.
To reduce the volatility of its revenue profile over time, QinetiQ is The portfolio includes: seeking to increase its portfolio of products and to find new markets and applications for its existing offerings.
EARS IWS The Survivability business provides innovative products to US and allied Acoustic Integrated governments, enabling them to protect people and assets, thereby sensors Warrior TM saving lives.
In the first half of the year, it delivered two key orders enhancing System for the Q-Net vehicle survivability product with a combined value personal safety of $44m.
These orders were for Navistars MaxxPro MRAP vehicles and for the US Armys Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck HEMTT LAST PADS the first time Q-Net has been fitted to a large haulage vehicle.
The Precision Air business is leveraging the convergence of multiple military capabilities Armor Drop system in order to expand its range of product offerings.
At the beginning of Field Installable 2013, it launched its Integrated Warrior System that enables a soldier Appliqu Armor to plug-and-play multiple sensors through a lightweight, wearable vest System and access data via a tablet or smartphone.
The Unmanned Systems business is a world-leading provider of military Q-Net robots.
Although demand for TALON robots has reduced as a result of Protection the drawdown of US troops, the business is finding new markets and against received $8m of TALON orders from Poland and the Czech Republic.
rocket-propelled Unmanned Systems is also increasing its portfolio of products, receiving grenades a $13m order from the US Governments Joint IED Defeat Organisation for the new, lightweight Dragon Runner 10 robot and a $10m order from the US Armys Rapid Equipping Force for innovative robotic applique kits that convert Bobcats into remote-control and semiWhere we operate autonomous systems for route clearance missions.
Other new products include lightweight tactical robotic controllers that can simultaneously command a variety of unmanned assets and unattended ground sensors.
Reston VA TM Integrated Warrior System provides vital power and data connectivity to improve command and control and situational awareness.
22QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Revenue Underlying operating profit Underlying operating margin 254.9m 23.9% 61.0m 2013 254.9m 2013 61.0m 2013 23.9% 2012 325.0m 2012 66.2m 2012 20.4% Case study: OptaSense What it does Distributed acoustic sensing delivering highly valuable data Converts standard fibre optic cable into thousands of virtual microphones with the equivalent of one every ten metres Provides real-time, actionable data for oil field services including fracking and vertical seismic processing and other vertical markets such as security and border protection Optasense: taking the pulse of the planet.
As military budgets are reduced, customer demand is increasing for solutions that extend the life of existing platforms and enhance their capability to meet new mission challenges.
Global Products is also leveraging the innovative, products-focused culture of its employees Our competitive advantage to develop technology-based solutions for non-defence markets.
Exclusive patents and licensing in rapidly expanding An early example of this approach is a Smart Sensor System that global markets precisely measures voltage and current on power grids to monitor Proven technology with important commercial reference sites the performance of distribution networks.
The system was selected by British Columbia Hydro to support its smart metering programme and is currently in the testing and pre-production phase.
127 40 The OptaSense fibre-optic sensing business is the most mature of the Patent Countries of Explore opportunities in QinetiQs portfolio.
The business delivered families operation double digit revenue and profit growth, winning key infrastructure monitoring contracts to protect a strategic pipeline corridor in Iraq and Significant expansion the state-controlled Bijwasan pipeline in India.
Whilst infrastructure of team increasing from services has been the key early adopter market for OptaSense, oilfield 4 to 140 employees services represents the biggest opportunity with a multi-billion-pound over last four years market potential.
In this market, the business signed follow-on contracts with Shell to fund 10m of product development over the next three years and enable deployment of the technology throughout Shell within a recurring services model, as well as to other companies.
The end of the exclusivity period with Shell is a significant milestone in the development of the OptaSense business, which is now starting to contract with other companies across the oil and gas industry.
QinetiQs Space business has been rigorously assessed over the last Where we operate year and has the potential to deliver future profitable growth.
Its key capabilities include ion engines and the Proba family of mini satellites, the latest of which was launched in early May by the European Space Agency.
In the Test for Value category, early stage offerings are being tested to determine the best route to maximise value.
During the year, the Zephyr  UAS technology was divested to EADS Astrium for further development and the Energy from Waste business was re-focused on core defence markets.
A number of capabilities, such as E-X-Drive hybrid electric drive, continue to be developed for customer-funded programmes.
Others, such as the GAJT GPS anti-jammer and the Modular Electronic Warfare System MEWS are being taken to market by partners, reducing implementation and sales risks.
Follow-on orders were received for the ALARM radar system which provides warning of in-coming rocket fire.
The licensing of intellectual property remains an important revenue stream, particularly in non-defence markets.
Oil and Gas Transport Defense and Security Note: Year references 2013 and 2012 relate to the year ended 31 March.
Utilities Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 116.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201323
