FINANCIAL REVIEW 60 PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks Reed Elsevier has established risk management practices that performance.
Our risk management and internal control are embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the processes are described in the Structure and Corporate framework in internal control issued by the Committee of Governance section.
A description of the business and a Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
discussion of factors affecting performance is set out in the Chief The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier, which have been Executive Officers report and Business Review.
Financial risks considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers report and in note 18 below.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our to the combined financial statements.
Our approach to managing businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described environmental and other non-financial risks is set out in the below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not Business Review and the separate Corporate Responsibility materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial Report.
Important specific risks identified include: EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy and Demand for our products and services may be Our businesses are focused on professional markets which have market impacted by factors such as the economic generally been more resilient in periods of economic downturn.
conditions environment in the US, Europe and other We deliver information solutions, many on a subscription basis, major economies, and government funding.
which are important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
We have extended our position in long-term global growth markets through organic new launches supported by the selective acquisition of small content and data sets.
We continue to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our strategy.
Intellectual Our products and services are largely We actively engage in developing and promoting the legal property rights comprised of intellectual property content protection of intellectual property rights.
Our subscription delivered through a variety of media.
We rely contracts with customers contain provisions regarding the use of on trademark, copyright, patent and other proprietary content.
intellectual property laws to establish and We are vigilant as to the use of our content and, as appropriate, protect our proprietary rights in these take legal action to challenge illegal distribution sources.
There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which may impact demand for and pricing of our products and services.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
Where upon content and data from external sources.
content is supplied to us by third parties, we aim to have contracts Data is obtained from public records, which provide mutual commercial benefit.
We also maintain an governmental authorities, customers and active dialogue with regulatory authorities on privacy and other other information companies, including data related issues, and promote, with others, the responsible competitors.
The disruption or loss of data use of data.
sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them could adversely affect our products and services.
Paid Our scientific, technical and medical STM We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STMcommunity to subscriptions primary publications, like those of most of our better understand their needs anddeliver value to them.
We are competitors, are published largely on a paid open to serving the STM community under any payment model subscription basis.
There isdebate in the that can sustainably provide researchers with the critical government, academic and library information tools that they need.
We focus on the integrity and communities, which are the principal quality of research through the editorial and peer review process: customers for our STM publications, we invest in efficient editorial and distribution platforms and in regarding whether such publications should innovation in platforms and tools to make content and data more be funded instead through fees charged to accessible and actionable: and we ensure vigilance on plagiarism authors or authors funders and or made and the long-term preservation of research findings.
freely available after a period following publication.
If these methods of STM publishing are widely adopted or mandated, it could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscription publications.
indd 60 07 03 2014 10:55 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 61 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on We are focused on the needs and economics of our customers and acceptance of the continued acceptance by our customers of seek to provide content and innovative solutions that help them products our products and services and the value achieve better outcomes and enhance productivity.
Failure to meet evolving customer needs could impact demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive We continuously invest significant resources in our products and markets, which continue to evolve in response services, and the infrastructure to support them.
We gain insights to technological innovations, changing into our markets, evolving customers needs, the potential legislation, regulatory changes, the entrance application of new technologies and business models, and the of new competitors and other factors.
These insights inform our market to anticipate market trends could impact the strategies and operational priorities.
competitiveness of our products and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions We regularly make small acquisitions to Acquisitions are made within the framework of our overall strengthen our portfolio.
If we are unable to strategy, which emphasises organic development.
We have a well generate the anticipated benefits such as formulated process for reviewing and executing acquisitions and revenue growth, synergies and or cost for managing the post-acquisition integration.
This process is savings associated with these acquisitions underpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethical criteria.
We this could adversely affect return on invested closely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic We have established procedures for the protection of our failure platforms and networks, primarily the technology assets.
These include the development of business internet, for delivery of products and continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up services.
These could be adversely affected if delivery systems, to reduce business disruption in the event of a our electronic delivery platforms or networks major technology failure.
experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach.
Data security Our businesses maintain databases and We have established data privacy and security programmes.
We information online, including personal test and re-evaluate our procedures and controls with the aim of information.
Breaches of our data security or ensuring that personal data is protected and that we comply with failure to comply with applicable legislation or relevant legislation, regulatory and contractual requirements.
regulatory or contractual requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss or litigation and increased regulation.
Supply chain Our organisational and operational We select our vendors with care and establish contractual service dependencies structures are dependent on outsourced and levels that we closely monitor, including through key performance offshored functions.
Poor performance or indicators and targeted supplier audits.
We have developed failure of third parties to whom we have business continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of a outsourced activities could adversely affect major failure by a vendor.
our business performance, reputation and financial condition.
Talent The implementation and execution of our We have well established management development and talent strategies and business plans depend on our review programmes.
We monitor capability needs and ability to recruit, motivate and retain remuneration schemes are tailored to attract and motivate the high-quality people.
We compete globally and best talent available at an appropriate level of cost.
We actively across business sectors for talented seek feedback from employees, which feeds into plans to enhance management and skilled individuals, employee engagement and motivation.
particularly those with technology and data analytics capabilities.
An inability to recruit, motivate or retain such people could adversely affect our business performance.
indd 61 07 03 2014 10:55 FINANCIAL REVIEW 62 PRINCIPAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the We have professional management of our pension world.
Historically, the largest schemes have been local schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset versions of the defined benefit type in the UK, the US and allocation and plan designs.
We review our funding the Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated requirements on a regular basis with the assistance of with those pension schemes are sensitive to changes independent actuaries and ensure that the funding inthe market values of assets and the market related plans are appropriate.
assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Adverse changes to inter alia asset values, discount rates or inflation could increase future pension costs and funding requirements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our earnings are We have clear and consistent tax policies and tax subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at matters are dealt with by a professional tax function, differing rates.
We seek to organise our affairs in a tax supported by external tax advisors.
We maintain an efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in open dialogue with the relevant tax authorities and are which we operate.
However, tax laws that apply to Reed vigilant in ensuring that we comply with tax legislation.
Elsevier businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently, which could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are Reed Elseviers approach to funding and management expressed in pounds sterling and are subject to of interest rate and foreign currency exposures is movements in exchange rates on the translation of the described on pages 58 and 59.
The approach to the financial information of businesses whose operational management of financial risks is described in note 18 currencies are other than sterling.
The US is our most tothe combined financial statements.
important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could significantly affect our reported results.
Macro economic, political and market conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world leading provider of professional information The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct solutions to the scientific, technical & medical, risk is provided to every employee and is supported by solutions & business information, legal, and exhibitions training.
It encompasses such topics as fair competition, markets we are expected to adhere to high standards of anti-bribery and human rights and encourages open independence and ethical conduct.
A breach of and principled behaviour.
We have well established generally accepted ethical business standards could processes for reporting and investigating instances of adversely affect our business performance, reputation unethical conduct.
Our major suppliers are required to and financial condition.
adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Our businesses have an impact on the environment, We are committed to reducing these environmental principally through the use of energy and water, waste impacts by limiting resource use and efficiently generation and, in our supply chain, through paper use employing sustainable materials and technologies.
and print and production technologies.
Failure to Werequire our major suppliers and contractors to meet manage our environmental impact could adversely the same objectives.
We seek to ensure that all Reed affect our reputation.
Elsevier businesses are compliant with relevant environmental regulation.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 62, has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Registered Office Henry Udow 1-3 Strand Company Secretary London 26 February 2014 WC2N 5JR 29275 SAS p051-062.
