Principal risks Effective risk management requires awareness and engagement at all levels of our organisation.
It is for this reason that risk management is incorporated into the day-to-day management of our business, as well as being re ected in the Groups core processes and controls.
The Board oversees the risk management strategy and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework.
Risk Management risk assessments throughout the year Annual planning process for all markets The successful delivery of Regus strategy as part of our business review process and Group functions depends on our ability to identify and and all our investment decisions.
Annual risk assessment exercise, manage the risks associated with These activities include: reviewed every six months, with our business.
Monthly business reviews of all countries participation of all senior managers Risk management is at the heart of and Group functions everything we do, particularly as we look Individual reviews of every new centre to grow across multiple markets around investment and all acquisitions the world.
For this reason, we conduct Board fide fines Regus risk appetite Overall responsibility for risk Assesses effectiveness of internal and tolerance management compliance control systems Audit committee Reviews effectiveness of Monitors progress against internal Approves the annual internal and internal controls and external audit recommendations external audit plans Senior leadership team Accountable for the design and Accountable for the regular review Contributes to the identi cation and implementation of risk management and appraisal of key risks assessment of key risks processes and controls General management Responsible for compliance and ensuring that staff are adequately trained Business assurance function Assists management and the Board in conducting Reviews risk pro les risk studies Tests compliance with internal controls Advises and guides on policies and internal control framework 24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MANAGEMENT Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Mitigation Progress in 2013 Strategic Lease obligations The single This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: During 2013, the number greatest financial risk to Regus of exible leases as a 1 84% of our leases are exible, meaning that they are is represented by the financial percentage of the total terminable at our option within six months and are structurally commitments deriving from the increased from 82% to 84%.
In this way, individual centres are sustained by portfolio of leases held across At the end of 2013, we were their own pro tability and cash ow.
During the recent downturn the Group.
operating 1,831 centres this exibility enabled us to negotiate revised lease terms with up from 1,411 at the end Whilst Regus has demonstrated our landlords to re ect downward movements in market rental of 2012 in 684 cities.
consistently that it has a rates and return affected centres to pro tability.
fundamentally pro table business 2 Around a quarter of our leases with landlords are variable in model which works in all nature, which means that payments to landlords vary with the geographies, the pro tability of performance of the relevant centre.
In this way the risk to centres is impacted by pro tability and cash ow of that centre from uctuations in movements in market rents, market rates is softened by the consequent adjustment to rental which, in turn, impact the price costs.
In a growing number of cases, we take no risk at all since at which Regus can sell to the lease is signed by a partner who also undertakes all of the its customers.
capital investment and pays us a xed percentage of revenues The fact that the outstanding as well as a share of centre pro t. lease terms with our landlords 3 The sheer number of leases and geographic diversity of our are, on average, signi cantly business reduces the overall risk to our business as the longer than the outstanding phasing of the business cycle and the performance of the terms on our contracts with our commercial property market vary from country to country customers creates a potential and region to region.
mismatch if rentals fall signi cantly which can impact pro tability and cash ows.
Economic downturn An The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: We increased the number economic downturn could of centres operating on 1 Almost a quarter of our leases are performance-related to a adversely affect the Groups performance related leases greater or lesser extent and our rental payments, if any, vary operating revenues thereby by 25%.
with revenues earned by the centre.
reducing operating performance We also increased the scale or, in an extreme downturn, 2 Lease contracts include break clauses when leases can be of our network by 30% to result in operating losses.
The Group also looks to stagger 1,831 business centre leases in locations where we have multiple centres so that we locations.
can manage our overall inventory in those locations.
Our monthly business 3 We review our customer base to assess exposure to a particular performance reviews provide customer or industry group.
early warning of any impact 4 The increasing geographic spread of the Groups network on our business performance increases the depth and breadth of our business and provides and allows management to better protection from an economic downturn in a single market react with speed.
generally, investment in our management team has also led to improved decisionmaking at a country and area level.
Shifting demand and technology Regus continually invests in R&D to develop new products and The Group increased spend trends Demand for exible services to increase its competitive advantage, protect current on R&D by 60% in 2013. working which has been aided revenues and unlock potential new sources of revenue.
com investors 25 Principal risks continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2013 Financial Exchange rates The Group has 1 Given that transactions generally take place in the functional Overall in 2013 the signi cant overseas operations currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to movement in exchange rates whose businesses are generally transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
during the period was conducted in the currency in marginally bene cial and 2 Where possible, the Group attempts to create natural hedges which they operate.
The principal increased reported revenue, against currency exposures through matching income and exposures of the Group are to gross pro t and operating expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the same currency.
the US dollar and the euro pro t by 20.2m, 4.9m with approximately 58% of and 1.2m respectively.
the Groups revenues being attributable to the US dollar and 16% to the euro.
The translation into sterling of overseas pro ts and net assets will be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
Any depreciation or appreciation would have an adverse or bene cial impact on the Groups reported performance and position respectively.
Funding The Group relies on The Group constantly monitors its cash ow and financial During 2013, the Group an element of external funding headroom development and maintains a 12-month rolling forecast.
extended and amended its to support a net debt position The Group also monitors the relevant financial ratios against the banking facility, which of 57.2m at the end of 2013. covenants in the facility to ensure the risk of breach is increased from 200m to The loss of these facilities being managed.
The facility is would cause a liquidity issue committed until September The Group also stresses these forecasts with downside scenario for the Group.
2017 and there is signi cant planning to assess risk and determine potential action plans.
headroom on each of the Part of the annual planning process is a debt strategy and action covenant ratios.
plan to ensure that the Group will have suf cient funding in place to achieve its strategic objectives.
Operational Loss of critical systems Regus manages this risk through: During 2013, we undertook The Groups systems and regular testing of business 1 Business continuity plans which are regularly tested.
applications are housed in a continuity procedures to central data centre.
Should the 2 A detailed service agreement with our external data centre ensure that they were data centre be impacted as a provider which incorporates back-up procedures and controls.
result of circumstances outside 3 We have appropriate business interruption insurance.
the Groups control there could be an adverse impact on the Groups operations and therefore its financial results.
Ensuring demand is there to Regus mitigates this risk as follows: In aggregate, our new support our growth Regus has centres continue to perform 1 Each investment or acquisition proposal is reviewed and undertaken signi cant growth in line with management approved by the Investment Committee which is composed to develop local and national expectations and are of the Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer.
Adding capacity delivering attractive returns.
carries the risk of creating 2 Part of the monthly business review process is the monitoring overcapacity.
Failure to ll of new centre development against their investment case to new centres would create a ensure that the anticipated business progression and returns negative impact on the Groups are being generated.
pro tability and cash generation.
3 As part of the annual planning process, a growth plan is agreed for each country which clearly sets out the growth objectives for the coming year in the context of a strategic plan.
This plan includes the assessment of risks and the ideal mix of deal types to manage the risk.
26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Mitigation Progress in 2013 Human Resources Ability to recruit at the right level Mitigating actions include: The strengthening of our Our ability to increase our senior management team 1 Succession planning discussions as an integral part of our management capacity and and country management business planning and review process.
capabilities through the hiring teams has been an ongoing of experienced professionals 2 The Human Resources Plan as part of the annual planning activity over recent years.
not only supports our ability to process.
Performance against this plan is reviewed through This investment in people is execute our growth strategy the year.
delivering a return, re ected but also enables us to improve in the financial performance 3 Regular external and internal evaluation of the performance succession planning throughout of the Group.
During 2013, we also increased the size and diversity of our Board with the addition of Florence Pierre in May.
Training and employee One of the key items in the Human Resources Plan is the Global During 2013 we successfully engagement As we are a Induction & Training Plan, which sets out the key objectives for increased our headcount by service based business the the forthcoming year.
Performance against these objectives is 1,508, including 108 senior performance and future reviewed through the year.
capabilities of our increasingly Our employee survey also provides an insight into employee issues All General Managers, who geographically diverse team which are then used to improve the Plan.
run our business centres, are critical to achieving our undertake a week long strategic objectives.
training programme as part of their comprehensive induction.
This is run by the Regus training team and our new General Managers are then supported by a coaching General Manager.
