Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties 27 Risks and Uncertainties Principal risks risk, its interaction with other risks and whether mitigating actions are successful in reducing the overall financial impact.
However, The groups overall risk management approach, described on as a rule of thumb, a 1% decrease in revenue, if not mitigated pages 46 to 47, is designed to provide reasonable, but not at all, would have an impact on operating profit in the range of absolute, assurance at all levels of the group that risks are properly 8.0m to 12.0m and on operating cash flow in the range identified and are being effectively managed.
This includes the of 6.0m to 10.0m.
provision of appropriate mechanisms to ensure that issues and concerns relating to risk can be escalated up through the Review of risks Risks and mitigating activities are regularly organisation confidentially.
reviewed by the Board and the senior leadership team, but it should The principal risks most relevant to the group are described in the be noted that remedial actions taken may not be sufficient on their table below, together with mitigating actions.
Assurance Risks, own to fully mitigate the risks, should they materialise.
which relate to activities that the group must undertake in order Other risks The group is exposed to other risks and uncertainties to meet legal, fiscal and governance obligations, are also shown.
related to environmental, political, social, economic and employment Full details of the Companys financial risks can be found in NoteC1 factors in the territories in which we operate.
Additional risks and on pages 114 to 116. uncertainties not presently known to management or deemed to be of lower materiality may, if they materialise, have an adverse impact The exact financial impact of one or more of our principal risks on the groups revenue, profitability, cash flow and or net assets.
materialising will depend on the precise operational impact of the Managing our principal risks Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Failure to achieve service level targets Global KPIs are defined for state of service.
These are reviewed Customer monthly at local, regional and group level and incorporated into service employee reward schemes Failure to achieve or exceed customer Customer account management processes and systems are being satisfaction rolled out following successful trials in the UK.
Customer Voice Counts net promoter score surveys are regularly undertaken across the group, included in group KPI reporting Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Failure to ensure appropriate project Our project management process PFI Lite is used to drive Capability of management resource is in place across the all significant projects.
The IT Investment committee prioritises our organisation group to deliver planned business projects projects to ensure sufficient resources financial and manpower, and people on schedule including implementation of are available to deliver the projects to the agreed budget and new information systems and technologies schedule.
Progress is monitored by the ELT Failure to roll out a pipeline of new innovation A group marketing and innovation function was established in across the business 2012, focusing on innovation for the hygiene and pest categories, leveraging the groups global scale and ensuring effective development and deployment Failure to develop and appropriately A global sales leadership team GSLT has been established to drive incentivise a professional sales capability improved sales capability, training and selling tools as well as to support activity at regional country level Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Industrial action in a major country Local management has an ongoing dialogue with unions and Operational works councils where issues are discussed and resolved excellence Failure to integrate acquisitions A detailed implementation checklist is deployed on completion of an acquisition.
Implementation is regularly monitored by senior management, and internal audit reviews the internal controls at all acquired businesses within 18 months of completion Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 27 01 04 2014 16:21 28 28 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Managing our principal risks continued Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Failure to identify and execute cost saving Cost savings programmes are in place across all operations and are Operating at opportunities via service productivity and monitored monthly.
Cost savings of 50m were delivered in 2013 lowest possible overheads reduction cost consistent Poor supply chain management including A Group Procurement function oversees procurement of key capital with delivering procurement and direct materials and central logistics across all European service objectives operations and maximising Failure to optimise capital expenditure and Cash management is monitored monthly through KPIs, the most cash flow working capital to support operating cash important of which are cash conversion rate and debtor days.
flow targets Approval for all capex projects greater than 100,000 is managed centrally through an Investment committee and all units have debtor days targets Failure to deliver benefits from the country A number of projects are in place to harmonise processes and integrated management operating model systems across the group, where cost-effective to do so.
These augment local harmonisation and integration projects at country level.
Implementation is regularly monitored by regional and group management Deteriorating ability to collect debts due to Aged debtors KPIs are monitored monthly.
The creditworthiness weak economies impacting our customers, of new customers and material existing customers is regularly especially governments reviewed.
Credit limits are applied based on an assessment of risk Financial market risks foreign exchange Detailed policies are in place that require Group Treasury to approve, risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, oversee and monitor all financial market risks.
See Note C1 on pages counterparty risk and settlement risk 114 to 116 Failure to ensure sufficient funds are Further fundraising during 2013 has been successful and the available at short notice to enable the business is now fully funded for at least two to three years.
Plans business to deliver its strategy and meet are in place to significantly increase free cash flow, which will its obligations, including acquisitions provide greater capacity for M&A activity Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Failure to win profitable new business Initiatives to win new customers such as tele-appointing, bids and Delivering through acquisition of new customers tenders and online tools as well as the development of cost-to-serve profitable and or up-selling to existing customers models to enable more competitive pricing of the service offering growth including through digital channels continue to be rolled out, coordinated by the GSLT see above organically Failure to retain profitable business when A number of initiatives are under way focusing on price.
Training of and through renewing existing customer contracts by the sales force, customer profitability analysis and greater financial acquisition ensuring that cost inflation is mitigated control are all in place to ensure that appropriate pricing action is through pricing action considered whenever contracts are renewed Failure to generate profitable growth through A major acquisition was completed in 2012 and a significant number strategically relevant acquisitions joint of bolt-on acquisitions have taken place in 2012, 2013 and early ventures 2014.
The pipeline of potential acquisitions is regularly reviewed by group management.
The group has sufficient funding capacity for the anticipated level of bolt-on acquisitions Strategic thrusts Risk description Management and or mitigating actions Fraud, financial crime or material accounting There is a strong focus on regular financial controls testing, including Assurance risks misstatement independent testing against a set of minimum control standards by the external auditors.
Speak Up is available for confidential whistleblowing Health, Safety or Environmental breach The group SHE board is responsible for setting SHE policies, resulting in loss of life, litigation, financial processes and systems and monitoring and reviewing their penalties or reputational damage effectiveness.
External certification and review ensure that SHE standards are maintained at an adequate level.
SHE metrics are reviewed monthly by the Group Executive Board Breach of laws or regulations including Group policies are in place on competition law.
Compulsory competition and anti-trust laws and e-training is required for all managers on competition law and regulations anti-corruption laws.
The group legal director is informed of all potential law breaches which may give rise to litigation Loss of operational capability due to major The business continuity policy has been revised and is being incident e. g. fire, flood, terrorism, war, implemented across all business units political or civil unrest, kidnap, etc.
Failure to act responsibly and ethically The Code of Conduct that was rolled out in 2010 was refreshed towards colleagues, customers or business in 2013.
Code of Conduct training is taken by all new starters.
partners i. e. failure to comply with the Code An e-learning programme has been developed and will be rolled of Conduct out through 2014.
A confidential Speak Up hotline is monitored by group internal audit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 28 01 04 2014 16:21 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 29 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Our Business 2 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 4 Our Operating Model 8 Our Strategy 10 Managing the Business for Profitable Growth 12 Pest Control 16 Hygiene 18 Workwear 20 Business Overview 22 Business Review 23 Key Performance Indicators 25 Risks and Uncertainties 27 Board of Directors 30 Executive Leadership Team 32 Chairmans Statement 33 Corporate Governance Report 34 Audit Committee Report 42 Nomination Committee Report 48 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 50 Directors Remuneration Report 55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc 73 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement 76 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 77 Consolidated Balance Sheet 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 79 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 81 Notes to the Accounts 82 Principal Operating Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings 128 Other information Five-Year Summary 129 Information relevant to the Directors Report can be found Parent Company Balance Sheet 130 elsewhere in this annual report on the following pages: Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 131 Statutory information Location in this annual report Accountability and audit Page 51 Additional Information Acquisitions and disposals Page 6 & Note B1 Shareholder Information 138 Financial Statements Appointment of directors Page 35 Board of directors and committee membership Pages 30 and 31 Directors conflicts of interest Page 37 Directors interests in shares Page 70 Directors liabilities and protections Page 39 Going concern Page 51 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 52 and 53 Key Performance Indicators Pages 25 and 26 Operating Model Pages 8 and 9 Pension schemes Note A9 Financial Statements Post balance sheet events Page 53 & Note D3 Financial Statements Risks and Uncertainties Pages 27 and 28 Share capital Note 10 Parent Company Accounts Substantial interests in shares Page 40 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
