30 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Summary of principal risks and uncertainties Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment Trend Continued economic slowdown Rexam continues to manage capital investment closely and is The risk of economic slow down and sluggish focused on maximising utilisation of assets to ensure we align recovery in Rexams key markets and its impact volume demand by our customers and our capacity.
upon demand for consumer packaging.
This High We use scenario planning and modelling based on potential remains one of the key risks for the Group.
upside and downside risk analysis within our budgeting and forecasting processes to identify mitigating actions which would be implemented should this risk increase further.
Continued cost improvement measures were implemented during 2013.
Financial impact from Emerging market risks are assessed in detail by management country based instability when considering investment opportunities and in due diligence The risk of political, socio-economic and reviews prior to investment.
We ensure that the Rexam Code of legal uncertainties within a country or region Conduct is communicated and adhered to and that financial that Rexam operates in and its impact on our policies and procedures are in place and regularly appraised.
Our expansion in emerging High This risk can manifest itself in several different ways: currency markets means that this is a risk area to exposure, political and operational risks etc.
These risks are which we will continue to be exposed.
regularly reviewed as part of the ongoing management of our business.
We also take external advice on specific matters and use local external advisors.
We will continue to carry out reviews of key risk areas both internally and with the support of external experts.
Competitive environment trends We have developed long term relationships with our customers The risk of adverse commercial impact on where a strong interdependency and a sense of partnership have Rexam from customer and competitor activities.
been built over the years.
We continue to invest in our production This risk can be driven by dependency on key capacity to strengthen those ties and our capabilities.
We continue High customers, competitor activities and behaviours, to focus on providing competitive performance as well price and volume pressure or contract negotiations.
as value adding service and innovation which are key parts of our strategic focus of strengthening our customer relationships.
Cyber attack and data security Rexams IT security procedures and processes ensure that all Risks of a data security incident which could servers and computers have up to date antivirus software.
Backups be driven by, for example, cyber attack, virus, are made regularly and we perform regular access control checks, data loss or technology failure.
system penetration and vulnerability tests along with disaster recovery tests.
Also, in the case of a disaster or technology failure, High clear responsibilities have been set between IT and business units to ensure operations can continue during the down time and this is regularly tested.
Rexams controls to counter cyber attack are checked and aligned with external best practice.
Security improvements have been and will continue to be made to mobile devices and Cloud services.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 31 Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment Trend Aluminium and other In beverage cans, almost all of our aluminium ingot costs are input costs increase charged to our customers on a pass through or back-to-back Aluminium represents our most significant hedged pass through basis.
For the remaining aluminium raw material cost.
We also purchase steel exposure, we hedge the aluminium cost and associated currency for our European beverage can operation.
The pass through and hedge strategy only applies to High volatility and uncontrollable input costs LME costs, whilst the conversion cost to aluminium coil is covered may have a material impact on our results.
by long term supply contracts.
Substantial rise in cost could adversely impact Aluminium premium cost has remained stable through 2013 and the demand of our packaging product as we hedged a proportion of our premium exposure during the year.
Medium customers adjust their packaging mix and the With new LME rules coming into effect in April 2014, premiums materials they use.
were expected to gradually decline as metal queues at warehouses reduced.
New market developments, however, have led to further spikes in premiums, the full year impact of which remains unclear for 2014.
We purchase aluminium and steel from a small number of regional and global suppliers with whom we have long term relationships and contracts.
We continue to identify new aluminium supply sources in some geographies.
Business interruption Rexam has established protocols and procedures across the Every business faces the potential risk of its Group such that plans are in place to ensure business continuity in operations being impacted by disruption due our operations in the case of business interruption.
We continue to to loss of supply, industrial disputes, failure with further enhance the principles of business continuity management technology, unplanned outages and physical and ensure that there is clarity on responsibilities between Group damage as a result of fire or other such event.
functions and business units in the event of disaster.
We continue to roll out business continuity workshops to business units.
Medium Strong relationships with customers and suppliers enable us to make arrangements on alternative sources of supply or production for critical product lines if required.
Rexam also has insurance in place to cover losses associated with business interruption for a stipulated period as a result of property damage or supply failure.
We review our insurance programme on an ongoing basis to ensure there continues to be appropriate level of coverage.
Changes in packaging legislation Rexam continually monitors changes or proposed changes in and regulatory environment laws or regulations that may affect our business.
This is done The risk of changing legislation impacting the through established and effective membership of relevant trade markets in which Rexam operates.
Packaging associations, by direct collaboration with governmental and will continue to be a focus for government non-governmental organisations and through our own efforts legislators working within the sustainability which include our legislative risk monitoring tool.
Changes in packaging legislation and the best possible chance of shaping a constructive outcome regulation affecting producer responsibility for which is not detrimental to Rexam or its stakeholders.
recycling, recycled content, carbon footprint Rexam also focuses on investment in new innovation and landfill taxation represent an increasing and technology programmes to ensure continuous trend risk.
improvements and enhancements in our packaging products and manufacturing processes.
Changes in consumer tastes, nutritional We continue to monitor market and consumer trends as well as preferences, health related concerns political developments through our own and external business and environment related concerns intelligence services and through our involvement in national The risk of changing consumer trends resulting and international packaging and environmental associations Medium in a shift in demand away from beverage cans in the countries and regions where we operate.
or from our customers products for which Rexam manufactures packaging.
Drivers of this risk can include lifestyle and taste change, nutrition and health considerations or environmental concerns.
32 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Summary of principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment Trend Counterparty default A range of financial counterparties are used and strict limits on our Risk of counterparty failure including, for exposure are applied to each of them.
These limits are determined by example, bank, insurer, customer or supplier, a range of qualitative and quantitative measures that are embedded resulting in financial exposure for Rexam.
into our treasury procedures and systems such that any breaches are The continued challenging macro-economic automatically reported, independently reviewed and approved.
environment in certain regions or countries The limits are automatically updated by factors such as credit in which Rexam operates requires focus rating change and also reviewed regularly for any qualitative in this area.
During the year, enhancement to the treasury system for Medium further defining bank counterparty limits by geography has been implemented to increase effectiveness of Rexams limits methodology.
The risk of insurer failure is monitored by our insurance broker and reported to Rexam immediately if an issue arises.
Customer credit limits are imposed and their credit risk, as well as suppliers, is reviewed and monitored.
In addition, we have implemented procedures across the business to manage working capital tightly, including customers overdue debts reporting.
Tax risks We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently, in the In an increasingly complex international tax jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning will complement environment, some uncertainties are inevitable and be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
Medium in estimating our tax liabilities.
Using internal tax experts and external tax advisors where required, we exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Pension deficit Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen by Risk relates to cash contributions, charges to the the Retirement Benefits Committee RBC which is chaired by the income statement and balance sheet volatility.
The RBC reviews all proposed new undertakings and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general fide-risking of Medium funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risks, are undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid to the respective plans to ensure that there are adequate assets to meet the plans obligations.
Fraud, bribery and The Rexam Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our internal control failure policies at Group, sector and individual businesses.
During the The risk of an internal control failure such as a year, improvements on compliance training were implemented to Rexam employee committing fraud or bribery ensure and increase employees awareness of their responsibilities.
Medium due to lack of integrity or awareness could A Group control framework, setting out key financial controls to be result in both financial loss and reputational applied across the Group, is in place to ensure consistency and damage to the business.
further enhance the control environment.
Rexams Raise Your Concern hotline also allows employees to raise any concerns regarding behaviour that does not conform to Rexam policies.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 33 Risk and description Key mitigation Assessment Trend Funding and other financial risks Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic Risks related to the cost and availability of objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam negotiates funding funds to meet our business needs, movements requirements in a timely manner ensuring appropriate headroom in interest rates, foreign currency exchange is secured to mitigate the risk of lack of availability.
Derivative and rates as well as commodity prices.
other financial instruments are used to manage exposures under Medium conditions agreed by the board.
During the year, a new commodity exposure system has been implemented across the Group to enhance the review of exposure and enable better management of risk in this area.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Environmental, fire, health and safety We continue to carry out regular environment, health and safety The risk of a significant environmental EHS audits in cooperation with internal and external specialists contamination, fire or health and safety issue at to drive best practice.
The audit approach was developed to one of our locations which can have an impact provide the basis for delivering a more sustainable and robust on the safety of our employees, or on our improvement of EHS management systems and performance at financial situation or our reputation.
all sites and strive for continuous improvement in our key health Medium and safety KPI measures.
In addition, we continue with our fire safety and property protection audit supported and performed by an independent provider.
We continued to have capital investment in fire safety and property protection during the year.
In 2013, we invested 5m in 15 plants.
Insufficient talent and As part of our continued strategic focus on building a winning knowledge capital organisation, we continue to invest in active talent management, Risk of insufficient talent and high quality succession planning and the development needs of our employees.
Low knowledge capital could potentially result in We also carry out an employee survey across the Group every performance declines due to lack of bench 18 months and review the outcome of the survey to address strengths, for example, we are unable to areas that require improvement.
See also page 23. place best candidates in key positions.
