28 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Risk management process RISK OvERvIEW Senior executive management formally review Effective management We have continued to develop and improve our risks and mitigations for the Group and each of of risk is essential to approach to business risk management during the business units biannually.
The review focuses on the course of 2013 in response to changes in the identifying potential risks that could significantly the achievement of our business and operating environment.
We ensure impact the business and considers in detail the business objectives and that all key risks are fully defined and mitigating various impacts of the risks and the mitigations actions are in place to manage these risks.
The Audit and Risk Committee see page to the protection of our maintain close working relationships between 55 continue to review the overall risk process people, assets and Group functions and business units to understand of the business and validate the risk register, to and address risks.
ensure that the Committee remain effective in reputation.
discharging its responsibility to the board.
Three We strive to ensure that risk management is of the four business sectors, Europe, AMEA and embedded into day to day business processes North America, presented their risks and mitigation and operations such that it is effective at all levels plans to the Audit and Risk Committee during the of the organisation: this ensures that potential risks year.
We also regularly assess the risks and monitor are identified at an early stage and mitigations the key risk indicators in the light of changes and are put in place to manage such risks.
Through the development around the Groups operating and risk management process and communication, external environment, and this is reported to the there is a robust, periodic risk review involving all board each month.
functions at Group level and individual business units.
Awareness of risk and of the risk escalation process has increased among key employees, and we will continue to cultivate an appropriate risk awareness culture in our businesses.
Rexam risk management process Suppliers, Functions & Macroeconomics Strategic planning, Audit assessments, competitors business units & other external forecasting & external input & & customers review & risk analysis budgeting process benchmarking monitoring behaviour Risk identification Functions & business units Risk capture and review & quantification risk mitigation forms Risk assessment Global functions & committees Risk leadership involvement & inputs team Risk mitigation action & monitoring Bi-annual ARC process review with senior management and Audit & Risk Committee Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 29 Key activities during 2013 2014 focus 2013 was a challenging year with lower volume growth in a difficult trading The focus for Group ERM in 2014 includes the evaluation of cost and environment in Europe and South America.
The North American beverage benefits tradeoffs of risk and mitigations, improving the risk management can operations continued to experience strong growth as we recovered system to drive efficiency in risk reporting, and continue to focus on business market share.
The market, however, remained competitive with pressure continuity management to ensure resilience.
Following the world class from both competitors and customer activities.
These risks were assessed benchmarking on safety risks in 2013, we plan to embed a world class and mitigating actions were put in place to address and respond to the approach to our plants in 2014.
A risk survey will be carried out to assess risk events.
the risk management awareness within Rexam.
Our new risk management software system went live at the start of the year.
Our approach to business risk management will continue to evolve to meet All risk registers are maintained in the system to ensure improved reporting the needs of our business and the changing environment that we operate and easier analysis of risk information across Rexam businesses to support in.
The principles of risk management are well embedded and there is a review and best practice sharing.
wide and effective recognition of the need to identify and mitigate risks at all levels of the organisation.
The 20132015 Enterprise Risk Management ERM roadmap was approved by the Audit and Risk Committee, covering developments to In addition, Internal Audit is increasing its scope and remit to ensure the risk management around process and infrastructure, risk identification and effectiveness of our risk mitigation plans and actions.
management, risk communication, operational and commodity risks, this involved third party input and external benchmarking.
Focus of the risk programme in 2013 has included the roll-out of risk based auditing, formal sharing of best practice across the business units, benchmark on world class safety and the roll-out of a commodity exposure system.
During the year, the Group ERM team participated in the Commercial and Supply Chain functional meetings to review the common risk themes in these areas with the objective to achieve consistency in risk and mitigating actions.
This will be rolled out to other Group functional teams in 2014.
Rexam risk management tool heat map matrix Risks represented after mitigating actions 2013 risk description Major 5 1 Continued economic slowdown 10 11 13 impact 2 Financial impact from country based instability 3 Significant Competitive environment trends 4 3 impact 4 Cyber attack and data security 5 Aluminium and other input cost increases 6 7 8 Risk Moderate 3 4 1 6 Impact impact Business interruption 9 12 14 7 Changes in packaging legislation and regulatory environment Minor 2 8 Changes in consumer tastes, nutritional 15 5 2 impact preferences, health related concerns and environment related concerns 9 Counterparty default Insignificant 1 impact 10 Tax risks 11 Pension deficit 1 2 3 4 5 12 Fraud, bribery and internal control failure Rare Unlikely Moderate Likely Almost certain 13 Probability Funding 14 Environmental, fire, health and safety 15 Insufficient talent and knowledge capital
