STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties Overview of Rio Tintos risk management framework External risks Factor Nature Rio Tinto recognises that dealing with risk is an integral part of how we protect and create value.
It is fundamental to our business success.
Our risk Commodity prices and demand are volatile and strongly influenced by world economic conditions.
The Groups normal Commodity prices and global management framework recognises this, and reflects the importance of leaders retaining ownership of risk management in each part of the business.
policy is to sell its products at prices that reflect the value of our products in the market and not to enter into price hedging demand for the Groups The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with all of Rio Tintos managers and business leaders, who operate within a Group-wide framework arrangements.
Recent volatility in commodity prices and demand may continue, which could adversely affect the Groups products are expected to that ensures risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
earnings, cash flow and mineral reserves.
The basis on which the Group prices iron ore in Asia is evolving and to the extent remain uncertain this results in prices or pricing mechanisms that are less favourable to the Group, its earnings and cash flow could be adversely The framework, underpinned by Rio Tintos Risk policy and standard, includes clearly-defined oversight responsibilities for the board of directors and the affected.
Furthermore, iron ore prices are typically determined on a landed in China basis, and increases in the freight market Executive Committee, supported by the Risk Management Committee, in ensuring key risks to Group objectives are identified, understood, and managed.
would adversely impact Group earnings.
It also defines the roles played by central support functions, by Group Risk, and by Group Audit & Assurance in support of effective risk analysis and management across Rio Tinto.
More information on the Groups approach to risk management can be found in the corporate governance section on page 66.
The Group is heavily reliant on the Chinese market.
A micro-economic slowdown, sudden economic disruption whether caused Past strong demand for the by sharp curtailment of bank credit or otherwise or the significant shift from infrastructure-led to consumer spending-focused Groups products in China growth could substantially decrease Chinas demands for the Groups commodities, adversely affecting the Groups profitability could be affected by future and cash position.
developments in that country Board of directors Board of directors Provides oversight across the risk management process, Rio Tinto is exposed to The great majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used for holding surplus Provides oversight across the risk management process, fluctuations in exchange rates cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, a level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of significant portion are incurred in or influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic objectives and monitors Group-level risks the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
The Groups normal policy is to avoid hedging of foreign exchange rates and so the strategic objectives and monitors Group-level risks Group may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility.
Currency fluctuations may negatively impact the Groups profitability and dividend payments as well Group Risk Group Risk as rating agency metrics and asset carrying values.
Executive Committee Responsible for maintaining Executive Committee Responsible for maintaining Political, legal and commercial The Group has operations in jurisdictions where governments and communities are seeking a greater share of mineral wealth.
Responsible for risk strategy and appropriate risk policy and standard, Responsible for risk strategy and appropriate risk policy and standard, changes in the places where Some operations are conducted under specific agreements with respective governments and associated acts of relevant accepting risks inherent in key providing co-ordination and support accepting risks inherent in key providing co-ordination and support the Group operates legislative bodies.
In several countries, land title and rights to land and resources including Indigenous title may be unclear.
investments and in strategic, of Group-level risk management investments and in strategic, of Group-level risk management Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law or government regulation can result in expropriation or business or annual plans Business risk owners activity and risk reporting Business risk owners business or annual plans activity and risk reporting nationalisation of the Groups rights or assets.
In some jurisdictions, commercial instability can arise from a culture of bribery Managers across the business Managers across the business and corruption.
are accountable and responsible are accountable and responsible In its operations and development projects, Rio Tinto is exposed to: Central support functions Central support functions Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee and management difficulty in obtaining agreements, leases or permits for new activities: Provide targeted expertise and and management Provide targeted expertise and Responsible for ensuring that Responsible for ensuring that renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits: support to risk owners, develop and support to risk owners, develop and maintain risk specific controls to changes in government ownership of operations: maintain risk speci c controls to ensure effective management of significant restoration and environmental clean-up costs: ensure effective management of ensuring the risk management ensuring the risk management material Group-level risk within currency and foreign investment restrictions: material Group-level risk within process is effective process is effective agreed thresholds agreed thresholds changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements: limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access: and Group Audit & Assurance general increases in regulation, including compliance costs.
Group Audit & Assurance Responsible for providing reasonable assurance that the Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to terms applicable to the Groups operations may result in Responsible for providing reasonable assurance that the systems for internal control are adequate and effective increased costs for the Group, may curtail or negatively impact existing operations and prevent the Group from making systems for internal control are adequate and effective future investments.
Community disputes in the Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may regard these operations Risks may materialise individually, simultaneously or in combination and could Risk factors countries and territories in as being detrimental to them.
Community expectations are typically complex with the potential for multiple inconsistent significantly affect the Groups: Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic and which the Group operates stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve.
Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be subject to many non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework influences, for example, related industries, operations of other groups, or local, regional or national events in other places short, medium and long-term business and prospects: defined by the Groups Risk policy and standard.
Principal risks and uncertainties where we operate.
These disputes can disrupt our operations and may increase our costs, thereby potentially impacting our earnings, cash flow and financial position: are identified when the Risk Management Committee, business unit or revenue and profitability.
In the extreme, our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity, which can impact overall financial results and product demand: function determines that the potential consequences are material at a Group our operational and financial performance, as well as our reputation.
level or where the risk is connected and may trigger a succession of events current asset values: Increased regulation of Rio Tintos operations are energy-intensive and depend on fossil fuels.
Worldwide, there is increasing regulation of greenhouse that, in aggregate, become material to the Group.
Once identified, each future asset values and growth potential: greenhouse gas emissions gas emissions, tighter emission reduction targets and progressive introduction of carbon pricing mechanisms.
These are likely principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed by the relevant internal experts and could adversely affect the to raise significantly worldwide energy, production and transport costs over the medium to long term, which will increase the safety record and the long, medium and short-term health of its employees: by the Risk Management Committee.
Groups cost of operations Groups cost base and potentially negatively impact the Groups profitability.
environmental effects: or The following describes all currently-known principal risks and uncertainties Regulations, standards and The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards alongside Group or business unit reputation.
that could materially affect Rio Tinto.
There may be additional risks unknown stakeholder expectations community and stakeholder expectations.
Evolving regulation, standards and stakeholder expectations could result in to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with regarding health, safety, increased costs, regulatory action, litigation or, in extreme cases, threaten the viability of an operation.
The risk factors outlined do not include the management any forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement environment and community detail on how each is managed and mitigated, which is discussed in more detail on the inside front cover.
evolve over time and on page 66. unforeseen changes could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and reputation 14 15 14 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties Overview of Rio Tintos risk management framework External risks Factor Nature Rio Tinto recognises that dealing with risk is an integral part of how we protect and create value.
developments in that country Board of directors Provides oversight across the risk management process, Rio Tinto is exposed to The great majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used for holding surplus fluctuations in exchange rates cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, a level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of significant portion are incurred in or influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally strategic objectives and monitors Group-level risks the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
The Groups normal policy is to avoid hedging of foreign exchange rates and so the Group may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility.
Currency fluctuations may negatively impact the Groups profitability and dividend payments as well Group Risk as rating agency metrics and asset carrying values.
Executive Committee Responsible for maintaining Political, legal and commercial The Group has operations in jurisdictions where governments and communities are seeking a greater share of mineral wealth.
Responsible for risk strategy and appropriate risk policy and standard, changes in the places where Some operations are conducted under specific agreements with respective governments and associated acts of relevant accepting risks inherent in key providing co-ordination and support the Group operates legislative bodies.
investments and in strategic, of Group-level risk management Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law or government regulation can result in expropriation or business or annual plans Business risk owners activity and risk reporting nationalisation of the Groups rights or assets.
In some jurisdictions, commercial instability can arise from a culture of bribery Managers across the business and corruption.
are accountable and responsible In its operations and development projects, Rio Tinto is exposed to: Central support functions Risk Management Committee and management difficulty in obtaining agreements, leases or permits for new activities: Provide targeted expertise and Responsible for ensuring that renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits: support to risk owners, develop and maintain risk specific controls to changes in government ownership of operations: ensure effective management of significant restoration and environmental clean-up costs: ensuring the risk management material Group-level risk within currency and foreign investment restrictions: process is effective agreed thresholds changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements: limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access: and Group Audit & Assurance general increases in regulation, including compliance costs.
Responsible for providing reasonable assurance that the Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to terms applicable to the Groups operations may result in systems for internal control are adequate and effective increased costs for the Group, may curtail or negatively impact existing operations and prevent the Group from making future investments.
evolve over time and on page 66. unforeseen changes could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and reputation 14 15 15 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties continued Factor Nature Strategic risks Factor Nature Joint ventures, strategic The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter into others, all of which partnerships or non-managed necessarily involve risk.
Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains operational control in its joint ventures, The Groups exploration and Rio Tinto identifies new orebodies and mining properties through its exploration programme, and develops or expands operations may not be its partners may: development of new projects other operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Exploration is not always successful and there is a high degree successful and may not comply have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group: might be unsuccessful of competition to develop world-class orebodies.
The Group may also not be able to source or maintain adequate project with the Groups standards financing, or may be unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing large projects.
exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint ventures best interests: or Furthermore, project execution may not proceed as planned and project budgets and schedules may prove inaccurate, all be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital of which may negatively impact the Groups profitability.
to expansion or maintenance projects.
Where these joint ventures are controlled and managed by others, the Group may provide expertise and advice but has limited Rio Tinto may fail to The Group may not be able to successfully divest non-core assets resulting in unforeseen pressure on its cash position.
control over compliance with its standards and objectives, such that partners may take action contrary to the Groups interests successfully execute In addition, potential acquisitions may not succeed, reducing the Groups ability to expand operations as a means of generating or policies with respect to its investment.
divestments and acquisitions shareholder value.
All business combinations or acquisitions entail a number of risks including the cost of effectively integrating acquisitions to realise synergies, significant write-offs or restructuring charges, and unanticipated costs and The Groups operations are 1.
Natural disasters and events liabilities.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities it has acquired that are unforeseen or greater vulnerable to a range of Mining, smelting, refining and infrastructure installations are vulnerable to natural events including earthquakes, subsidence, than anticipated.
The Group may also face liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour all commitments or the interruptions, not all of which drought, flood, fire, storm and the possible effects of climate change.
Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
are covered fully by insurance 2.
Sustained operational difficulties Operating difficulties are many and various, ranging from geological variations that could result in significant ground or Financial risks containment failure to breakdown of key capital equipment.
Factor Nature Reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power generation and transmission, and water supplies are required to access and conduct our operations.
The Groups reported results The Group may be required to record impairment charges as a result of adverse developments in the recoverable values of its could be adversely affected assets including goodwill.
Significant assumptions in the determination of recoverable value include, but are not limited to: Limitations, or interruptions in transport infrastructure, including as a result of third parties gaining access to our integrated by the impairment of assets pricing of the Groups commodities and products, reserves and resources, infrastructure availability, discount and exchange facilities, could impede our ability to deliver products.
and goodwill rates, operating and development cost projections, and timing of expenditure and revenues related to major projects.
Information technology and cyber security addition, the occurrence of unexpected events, or events beyond the Groups control that adversely impact its business, may The Group relies heavily on information technology and process control systems to support our business.
In common with have an impact on the assumptions underlying the recoverable value of its assets.
The foregoing items are not exhaustive and most large global companies, the Group has experienced cyber attacks and is faced with ongoing threats to the confidentiality, impairments may be caused by factors currently unknown to the Group.
To the extent that the recoverable value of an asset integrity and availability of such systems.
Whilst no material losses related to cyber security breaches have been discovered, is impaired, such impairment may negatively impact the Groups profitability during the relevant period.
given the increasing sophistication and evolving nature of this threat, we cannot rule out the possibility of them occurring in the future.
An extended failure of critical system components, caused by accidental or malicious actions, including those The Groups liquidity and cash The Groups ability to fund planned expenditure such as capital growth, mergers and acquisitions, innovation and other resulting from a cyber security attack, could result in a significant environmental, health or safety incident, commercial loss flow expectations may not obligations may be hindered if its cash position proves inadequate.
Our ability to weather a major economic shock could be or interruption to operations.
be realised, inhibiting compromised by insufficient cash reserves, a reduction in the value of existing cash reserves, or restricted access to these planned expenditure and other sources of cash, including bank financing or international capital markets.
Major operational failure The Groups operations involve chemicals and other substances stored under high temperature and pressure, with the Failure to reduce costs both in Input costs in the resources sector can increase at a disproportionate rate, adversely affecting the economics of current potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the process, leading to a release of hazardous materials.
This could operations and projects may operations and increasing the cost of our capital expansion projects.
Many of these input costs are linked to commodity prices occur by accident or a breach of operating standards, and could result in a significant environmental, health or safety incident.
result in reduced margins and and, in the case of capital expansion projects, the time lag between incurring project costs and receiving revenue can result threaten the viability of our in additional exposure to commodity markets.
Failure to reduce these costs may have an adverse impact on our operating The Groups insurance does not cover every potential loss associated with its operations and adequate coverage at reasonable capital projects margins and the viability of our capital expansion projects.
rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, insurance provision may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruption.
Any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
Operational risks The Group depends on The Groups ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent on the services of a wide range of highly-skilled and the continued services of experienced personnel available in the locations where they are needed.
Failure to recruit and retain key staff, and the inability Factor Nature key personnel to deploy staff worldwide, where they are most needed, could affect the Groups business.
Similar constraints may be felt by Estimates of ore reserves are There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, including subjective judgments and determinations the Groups key consultants, contractors and suppliers, thereby impacting the Groups operations, expansion plans or business based on uncertain that are based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information.
Previously valid assumptions may more generally.
assumptions that, if changed, change significantly with new information, which may result in changes to the economic viability of some reserves and the The Groups costs of closeClose-down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and costly.
Estimated costs could result in the need to need for them to be restated.
down, reclamation, and are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the provisions might prove to be inadequate due restate ore reserves rehabilitation could be higher to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new reclamation techniques.
In addition, the expected timing of Labour disputes could lead to Some of the Groups employees, including employees in non-managed operations, are represented by labour unions than expected expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary the life of an operation.
lost production and or under various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be able to renegotiate agreements satisfactorily when they increased costs expire and may face difficult negotiations, higher wage demands or industrial action.
In addition, labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
Some of the Groups The Group has invested in and implemented new technologies both in information systems and in operational initiatives, some technologies are unproven and of which are unproven and their eventual viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
The actual benefits of these technologies failures could adversely impact may differ materially from expectations.
costs and or productivity The Group may be exposed to Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of materials, services, equipment, and infrastructure, major failures in the supply and on providers of logistics.
Supply chain failures, or significantly increased costs within the supply chain, for whatever reason, chain for specialist equipment could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties continued Factor Nature Strategic risks Factor Nature Joint ventures, strategic The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter into others, all of which partnerships or non-managed necessarily involve risk.
