principal risks and uncertainties Our risk profile evolves as we move through the economic COnstAnt risK cycle.
Set out below are the principal business risks that deCreAsed risK currently impact the Group and information on how we mitigate against these.
economic conditions pOtentiAl iMpACt strAteGy FOr MitiGAtiOn In the longer term, there is a link between demand for our Prudent management through the different phases of services and levels of economic activity.
industry, from which we earn the majority of our revenue, Flexibility in the business model.
is cyclical and typically lags the general economic cycle by between six and 18 months.
Our performance is currently Capital structure and debt facilities arranged in recognition ahead of the economic cycle and we therefore expect to see of the cyclical nature of our market and able to withstand further upside as the economy returns to growth.
this recovery could be derailed by further economic shocks which could affect demand for our services.
Competition pOtentiAl iMpACt strAteGy FOr MitiGAtiOn The already competitive market could become even more Create commercial advantage by providing the highest level competitive and we could suffer increased competition from of service, consistently and at a price which offers value.
large national competitors or small companies operating Excel in the areas that provide barriers to entry to at a local level resulting in reduced market share and newcomers: industry-leading IT, experienced personnel lower revenue.
and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
Financing pOtentiAl iMpACt strAteGy FOr MitiGAtiOn Debt facilities are only ever committed for a finite period Maintain conservative below two times net debt to EBITDA of time and we need to plan to renew our facilities before leverage which helps minimise our refinancing risk.
they mature and guard against default.
Our loan agreements Maintain long debt maturities currently five years.
also contain conditions known as covenants with which we must comply.
Use of asset-based senior facility means none of our debt contains quarterly financial covenants when availability under the facility $667m at year end exceeds $216m.
Business continuity pOtentiAl iMpACt strAteGy FOr MitiGAtiOn We are heavily dependent on technology for the smooth Robust and well-protected data centres with multiple data running of our business given the large number of both links to protect against the risk of failure.
units of equipment we rent and our customers.
A serious Detailed business recovery plans which are tested uncured failure in our point of sale IT platforms would have periodically.
an immediate impact, rendering us unable to record and track our high volume, low transaction value operations.
Separate near-live back-up data centres which are designed to be able to provide the necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
18 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 people pOTenTiAl iMpACT sTrATeGy FOr MiTiGATiOn Retaining and attracting good people is key to delivering Provide well-structured and competitive reward and benefit superior performance and customer service.
packages that ensure our ability to attract and retain the employees we need.
Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact on our ability to maintain the appropriate quality of service to our customers Ensure that our staff have the right working environment and would ultimately impact our financial performance and equipment to enable them to do the best job possible adversely.
and maximise their satisfaction at work.
Invest in training and career development opportunities for our people to support them in their careers.
health and safety pOTenTiAl iMpACT sTrATeGy FOr MiTiGATiOn We need to comply with laws and regulations governing Maintain appropriate health and safety policies and occupational health and safety matters.
Furthermore, procedures regarding the need to comply with laws and accidents could happen which might result in injury to regulations and to reasonably guard our employees against an individual, claims against the Group and damage the risk of injury.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Compliance with laws and regulations pOTenTiAl iMpACT sTrATeGy FOr MiTiGATiOn Failure to comply with the frequently changing regulatory Maintaining a legal function to oversee management of these environment could result in reputational damage or risks and to achieve compliance with relevant legislation.
Group-wide ethics policy and whistle-blowing arrangements.
Evolving policies and practices to take account of changes in legal obligations.
Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate training and briefing on the relevant policies.
environmental pOTenTiAl iMpACT sTrATeGy FOr MiTiGATiOn We need to comply with the numerous laws governing Policies and procedures in place at all our stores regarding environmental protection matters.
These laws regulate the need to adhere to local laws and regulations.
such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest available wastes and materials, and air quality.
Breaches potentially emissions management and fuel efficiency tools in our fleet.
create hazards to our employees, damage to our reputation and expose the Group to, amongst other things, the cost of Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
investigating and remediating contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19
