Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 50 Corporate governance continued Induction and Development IG King is the current Senior Independent Director.
As part of his New Board members receive a suitable and tailored induction.
role, he annually arranges a meeting of the non-executive directors This is facilitated by the Company Secretary under the direction of to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This feedback is used to the Chairman.
No new directors were appointed during the year.
discuss with the Chairman his performance.
As part of Sally James ongoing induction she visited Rotorks Diversity on the Board manufacturing facilities in Lucca, Italy where she received training Rotork recognises the benefits that gender diversity can bring to on Rotork Fluid Systems products and met the local workforce.
the Boardroom and to the Group as a whole.
Having met its first published target of achieving 25% female representation in its Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional independent non-executive directorate last year, Rotork responded skills and knowledge.
During 2013, development activities for the to Lord Davies call for action in the Second Annual Review of directors included: Women on Boards by announcing the future action it will take to Attendance by the non-executive directors and the Chairman at improve diversity in senior management and throughout the a general Rotork products training course covering all Rotork organisation.
Rotork has also published a diversity policy which products: covers diversity on the Board and throughout the organisation.
Attendance by the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Details of this policy are set out in the report of the Nomination Director at a crisis management training course provided by FTI Committee on page 55.
Consulting: The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attended an internal Controls and risK manaGement Association of British Insurers Investment Conference which The Board is cognisant of its responsibility to present a fair, included presentations and discussions on executive balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys remuneration: position.
The Board is responsible for Rotorks system of internal The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended a Financial control and risk management and meets at least annually to review Reporting Council FRC seminar for Audit Committee Chairmen the effectiveness of it.
Internal control can only provide reasonable, and attended a number of webinars and workshops on not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, technical and governance matters: and as it is designed to manage the risks rather than remove All directors received the Rotork anti-bribery and corruption them altogether.
e-learning training module and completed this by early 2014.
The system covers controls which enable Rotork to respond The Chairman is responsible for reviewing the level and nature of appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any other training given to the Board of directors at least annually.
The system accords with the Turnbull Guidance, Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, and key Performance Evaluations elements include: During 2013 the Board undertook a detailed review of its Robust assurance processes and controls over financial performance, based on a written questionnaire which was reporting procedures: designed, in collaboration with the Chairman and Company A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board including Secretary, by Vivienne Cassley of Useful Thinking, an external responsibility for reviewing Group strategy: consultancy, who also provided an analysis on the responses.
Clearly defined levels of authority and a division of responsibilities throughout the Group: The feedback from the review was positive and there was a strong Formal documentation procedures: sense that the Board has continued to build on the progress made A formal whistleblowing policy with an external whistleblowing in prior years.
There is a level of openness and support between hotline: and Board members which allows the Board to function effectively and An internal audit function made up of accountants from head in a way that all members are comfortable with.
The review noted office and across subsidiaries supported by regular training in that improvements had been made this year in the process of internal audit, best practice and control procedures to monitor setting strategy and monitoring the performance of new initiatives and identify weaknesses in internal controls.
All members of the Board receive full Audit Committee papers and The review also revisited matters raised in 2012, and recorded prior meeting minutes.
Additionally, the Audit Committee continuing progress in these.
For example, during 2013 the Board: Chairman briefs the Board on the main business of the previous Continued to monitor and adjust the processes governing Audit Committee meeting as well as making recommendations identification and management of risk as the Group continues from the Audit Committee to the Board.
Board members therefore to expand and diversify: and receive information and updates on the work of the Audit Appointed new external advisers to the Remuneration Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk Committee to advise members in setting appropriate levels management and internal control systems throughout the year.
The Board then carries out its review of the system of internal control.
Board members identified key areas for focus in 2014, including: Succession planning and development of management immediately below Board level: and Continued focus on longer term product and acquisition priorities.
