Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 30 How we manage risk Overall responsibility for maintaining the risk management process and determining risk appetite.
Audit Committee provides oversight of the internal control framework.
Executive and senior management consider risk management for the Group as a whole.
Detailed risk assessment and consideration of mitigation is carried out at the divisional level.
Managing business risks The Finance Director is responsible for risk Risk management process The assessment and management of risk is management within the Group and leads the The major risks affecting the Group are first the responsibility of the Board, and the development of the risk management identified and considered by the divisional development and execution of a process and the tools used.
The Board boards during their regular meetings.
Once a comprehensive and robust system of risk approves risk appetite for the Group and risk has been identified, it is allocated to one management is a high priority in Rotork.
considers the consequential actions in terms of the directors to ensure the risk is Managing the risks to our business is of mitigation where possible and appropriate.
appropriately considered and the risk is essential to the long-term success and managed.
Risks are categorised on a matrix sustainability of the Group and our approach Determining risk appetite reflecting likelihood and impact on the to risk is intended to protect the interest of The Board is responsible for determining the business.
The assessment of likelihood is shareholders and all interested parties.
The nature and extent of the risks it is willing to considered after allowing for the effect of risk management process is an established take in achieving its strategic objectives.
This mitigation whilst the impact is measured way of identifying and managing risk, first at risk appetite is not only considered during the before allowing for mitigation such as divisional board level, and then for the Group risk review meetings but also during a insurance recoveries.
The impact scale is as a whole and it works within our number of other Board discussions during the determined as a function of annual profit so governance framework set out in our year.
These include strategy discussions, that each division has an appropriate corporate governance report, see pages 46 consideration of insurance coverage, setting benchmark.
Once the assessment matrix is to 55. of scope and timing of the internal audit and completed by each division, the risks are then health and safety audit programmes and aggregated and re-evaluated in relation to The Boards role in risk management involves amendments to Group policies and the Group as a whole using an appropriate promoting a culture that emphasises integrity procedures in areas such as whistleblowing Group impact scale.
at all levels of business operations.
This and bribery and corruption.
The includes ensuring that risk management is remuneration committee of the Board Identified risks are discussed and the progress embedded within the core processes of the considers risks related to staff retention and reviewed at both Rotork Management Board Group, determining the principal risks, the nomination committee the risks around and divisional board meetings during the communicating these effectively across the succession planning.
Senior management, in association with businesses and setting the overall policies for specific risks are identified during the year the full Board of Directors, meets twice a year risk management and control.
The these are identified in the written reports to consider the Group risk matrix and geographic spread of our activities makes received by the Board each month.
The external communication of these policies and Auditor is invited to attend one of the standards a key part of ensuring consistency meetings each year.
across all of our operations.
Strategic Report 01-41 31 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 How we manage risk Identify and assess individual risks Review previously Consider the overall identied risks and eectiveness of the the eectiveness control environment of mitigation Design of controls to Report any incidence mitigate identied risks of control failings Test the controls through management review and internal audit This is an ongoing process involving regular The risks considered during the process assessment of the risks, with clear and cover all aspects of the Groups activities and consistent procedures for monitoring, cover a far wider range of areas including updating and implementing appropriate environmental, reputational and ethical risks controls to manage the identified risks.
as well as product, competitor or financial We are therefore confident that we have a risks, but not all of these areas are methodology for ensuring that the Groups represented in the top 10 risks which approach to dealing with individual risks is are listed on pages 32 to 33.
These are robust and timely.
categorised by the three main risk areas identified Mitigation, where possible, and Classification of key risks is shown for each risk area identified.
We identify three main risk types: Key Risks Identified Strategic Risks that potentially could affect the strategic aims of the business, or those issues that could affect the strategic objectives that the Group is addressing: Operational Risks arising out of the operational activities of the Group relating to areas such as logistics, procurement, product development and interaction with commercial partners: and Financial Issues that could affect the finances of the business both externally from matters initially outside of our control, and from the perspective of internal controls and processes.
Increasing impact on Rotork Increasing likelihood
