Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 32 principal risks and uncertainties STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Competition on price as Where a competitor decides to use cost Rotork already has a direct presence, in terms of production, sales and a result of an existing savings to reduce their selling prices, this service support, in many low cost locations and regularly reviews competitor moving to could lead to a reduction in the general opportunities in other countries.
There is a constant drive to maintain manufacture in a lower market price.
Rotork might need to differentiation from the competition both in terms of the quality of cost area of the world.
respond to a change in market price our products and of the service we provide and thus ensure that price levels whilst still maintaining the price is not the only means of gaining a competitive advantage.
premium currently enjoyed for some products.
Not having the In order to be able to compete on a Development of products, or acquisition of companies with those appropriate products, project, our products must meet both products, to meet required specifications and broaden our product either in terms of the necessary specification and pricing portfolio is an ongoing activity as is the drive to take cost out of our features or costs.
A failure on either count could products to meet target pricing levels.
harm our competitive position and result in us not winning the project.
Lower investment in A reduction in capital or maintenance Identification of potential new end markets or ones which are Rotorks traditional expenditure in one of Rotorks key becoming more active takes place in each location and is coordinated market sectors.
market sectors would result in a smaller at divisional level.
This is supported by product development and addressable market, which in turn could innovation to address new markets and new applications in existing lead to a reduction in revenue from that markets.
At a Group level our geographic and end market sector.
diversification provides resilience to a reduction in any one area or market.
STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL MITIGATION FORMING A CONCLUSION DESIGN OF CONTROLS REVIEWING IDENTIFIED RISKS TESTING THE CONTROLS IDENTIFICATION AND REGULAR ASSESSMENT Strategic Report 01-41 33 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 principal risks and uncertainties OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Major in field product Replacement of defective components A comprehensive set of quality control procedures operates over failure arising from a or complete units would give rise to a suppliers.
These include supplier visits, audits and a scorecard system component defect or direct financial cost and there could also to measure their performance.
In some markets legislation determines warranty issue which be a reputational risk.
that this risk is entirely passed to the end user.
Our global service might require a product coverage ensures that any product failure issues could be dealt with recall.
quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact.
Failure of a key supplier Where customer delivery expectations Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible provides the best or a tooling failure at a are not met, this could lead to financial mitigation for key suppliers with regular monitoring and replacement supplier causing penalties and damage customer of tooling at all suppliers.
Inventory levels are maintained at a sufficient disruption to planned relationships.
level to protect against short-term disruption.
Failure of an acquisition Whilst growth opportunities, cost During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is prepared to to deliver the growth or savings and synergies are identified prior manage the important initial stages of integration.
Consideration is synergies anticipated, to completion, these may not always be given to the composition and skills of the management team with the due to incorrect delivered at the levels anticipated or to necessary training and support provided by a variety of Rotork assumptions or changing the timetable expected following the personnel.
This should ensure an effective integration and market conditions, or acquisition.
communication of Rotorks policies and procedures, whilst monitoring failure to integrate an delivery of the financial plan.
acquisition to ensure compliance with Rotorks policies and procedures.
Failure of IT security Sensitive data is stored and transmitted Rotork has a range of measures in place to monitor and mitigate systems to prevent electronically around the world.
penetration by Group is therefore exposed to the risk unauthorised people and of data loss by cyber attack.
This access to commercially data might contain technically or sensitive data.
commercially sensitive information which would provide a competitor with an advantage.
FINANCIAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Volatility of exchange Significant fluctuations in exchange A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short-term risk and this rates would impact rates could have an adverse impact on works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical Rotorks reported results Rotorks reported results and adversely spread of operations, sourcing and customers.
Whilst this will protect and competitive position.
affect the pricing point of our products against some of the transaction exposure our reported results would in other currencies.
still be impacted by the translation of our non-UK operations.
Political instability in a Disruption of normal business activity The wide geographic spread of Rotorks operations and customers key end market.
would impact our sales in that country diminishes the impact of any one market on the results of the Group and might ultimately lead to loss of any as a whole.
assets located in that country as well.
Growth of the defined The amount of the deficit may be Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new members, with the benefit pension scheme adversely affected by a number of UK scheme closed in January 2003.
The Group and trustees monitor deficit.
factors including investment returns, the performance of the scheme regularly, taking actuarial and long term interest rates, price inflation investment advice as appropriate.
The results of these reviews are and members longevity.
This in turn discussed by the Board.
might lead to a requirement for the Company to increase cash contributions to the schemes.
