RPC Group Plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2013 principAl riSkS RPC is subject to a number of risks, both external and internal, some of which could haveasignificant impact on the performance of its business.
A regular review is conducted of these risks to identify both the nature and magnitude ofariskand the manner in which it can be mitigated.
Therisks that are seen as being particularly important at the current time are: aRea oF RIsK DesCRIPTIon oF RIsK MITIGaTIon POlyMER PRiCE Polymer resin, which is the key raw material used in the The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer ANDAVAilAbiliTy manufacture of rigid plastic packaging, represented 40% of price increases to its customers through agreed the operating costs of the business in 2012 13.
Polymer contractual terms, providing an effective hedge against prices have risen consistently in recent years and are polymer price increases albeit with a time lag.
subject to volatility as they tend to follow the underlying price The Group has also reduced its dependence on of oil as well as being impacted by changes in global supply individual suppliers by adapting its manufacturing sites and demand.
to convert a wider range of polymer grades, to mitigate against supply disruption.
In addition some sources of polymer supply are affected by plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in shortages.
DEPENDENCE ON The Group has long established relationships with a number There is a high degree of mutual dependency between KEyCUSTOMERS of key customers, with the top 10 accounting for over 28% of RPC and its customers and because of the Groups sales in 2012 13.
The loss of any one of these customers size, product range, geographical reach and the joint could adversely affect the Groups results in the short-term.
investment often required to develop a product, many, customers have difficulty in moving their business to analternative supplier in the short term.
In addition customer retention is strengthened by the Group remaining responsive to customer demands, by delivering high quality products, excellent customer service and developing innovative packaging solutionsthat can provide new sales opportunities forour customers.
PRiCiNG AND The market for rigid plastic packaging, although fragmented, The Group differentiates itself from its competitors by COMPETiTiVE has become increasingly competitive, particularly where establishing long-term relationships with its customers PRESSURES there has been consolidation or overcapacity in the market, through bespoke product development and through exacerbated by the economic recession.
An increasing investing in new and innovative capabilities across focus on pricing by customers puts pressure on margins and awide range of conversion technologies.
In addition n may lead to lost business where customers have the theGroup has improved its competitive position in the capability to switch volumes to other suppliers.
challenging economic environment of the last few years by focusing on cost reduction, improving productivity and operational efficiencies through economies of scale.
ECONOMiC The continued impact of the recessionary economic The Group operates in a number of different markets ENViRONMENT AND environment in the UK and the eurozone, to which 86% of product, geographical, end customer or niches within CyCliCAl PATTERNS theGroups sales are made, has resulted in reduced demand the rigid plastic packaging market, which serves to iN ThE RiGiD PlASTiC for some of our businesses.
Other factors, such as changes dilute the effect of adversity of any one particular sector.
PACKAGiNG MARKET in consumer preferences and packaging trends, also impact The Group actively monitors the economic environment on demand.
and patterns of demand, the impact this has on its n businesses and responds by incremental and structural changes to its operations.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29 Change in risk since, n !
2012 Annual Report aRea oF RIsK DesCRIPTIon oF RIsK MITIGaTIon bUSiNESS Businesses face the potential risk of operations being The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply iNTERRUPTiON affected by disruption due to loss of supply, failures with are available where possible, and where a problem is AND ThE lOSS Of technology, industrial disputes and physical damage arising localised in many cases it is possible to manufacture or ESSENTiAl SUPPliES from fire, flood or other catastrophe.
The loss of essential supply the product from another site within the Group.
services or supplies could have a significant impact on the In addition all businesses have established protocols Groups ability to service its customers.
and procedures to ensure business continuity in the, event of a major incident.
SUPPly Of fAUlTy The Groups reputation as a business partner relies heavily The Group employs strict control measures and OR CONTAMiNATED on its ability to supply quality products on time and in full and externally accredited systems to ensure the safety and PRODUCTS the supply of faulty or contaminated products could have quality of products that are manufactured.
This might include adverse effects also has appropriate insurance in place to cover on consumer health, loss of market share, financial costs, product liability.
loss of turnover and reputational damage.
SAfEGUARDiNG The risk of fire represents a significant physical risk to the Business sites have sprinkler and or smoke detection PhySiCAl PROPERTy Group and the impact of a major catastrophe of this nature systems in place together with other preventive AND OUR EMPlOyEES could be considerable.
The health and safety of our measures.
Health and safety audits are regularly employees is the number one priority at all of our sites.
performed, in conjunction with internal and external specialists, to drive sites to best practice.
fUNDiNG AND Risks relate to the cost and availability of funding for the The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies fiNANCiAl RiSKS Groups businesses, movements in interest rates and foreign and procedures approved and monitored by the Board.
The Group has a translation The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely exposure to the euro, as over 70% of the Groups earnings manner ensuring appropriate headroom and funding, and net assets are reported in this currency.
tenure is obtained to mitigate availability risk.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates to give a degree of stability to the interest rate charged each year.
The Groups balance sheet translation exposure to the euro is hedged by ensuring that borrowings in euros are matched to the Groups net assets in euros, and any significant transactional exposures in foreign currency are managed using approved financial derivatives.
ENERGy COSTS The Group uses significant amounts of electricity in the The Group has an energy purchasing strategy which manufacturing process.
The price of electricity is subject ensures that a proportion of electricity purchased is at tovolatility and is a significant cost of manufacture for fixed rates, and the business is focused on reducing the, thebusiness.
electricity consumed per tonne of polymer converted through manufacturing efficiency improvements and the use of technical advances in equipment and processes.
The Group also participates in a Climate Change Agreement, through the British Plastics Federation, which sets out energy reduction targets.
