Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered bythe board are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Of cers reviewand in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Speci c risks we face Possible impact The global brewing and beverages industry Failing to participate in Lower growth rate, Industry is expected to continue to consolidate.
pro tability and There will continue to be opportunities to Paying too much to nancialreturns.
consolidation enter attractive growth markets, to realise acquire a business.
synergy bene ts from integration and to Not implementing leverage our global scale.
Failing to identify and develop new approaches to market and category entry.
Consumer tastes and behaviours are Failing to develop and Market positions come Change in constantly evolving, and at an increasingly ensure the strength and under pressure, market rapid rate.
Competition in the beverage relevance of our brands opportunities are missed, consumer industry is expanding and becoming more with consumers, lower top line growth rates preferences fragmented, complex and sophisticated.
Failing to continue to improve our commercial capabilities to deliver brand propositions which respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences.
We believe that our people are our enduring Failing to identify, develop Lower long-term Management advantage and therefore it is essential that and retain an appropriate pro tablegrowth.
we develop and maintain global pipeline of talented capability management capability.
managers for the present and future needs of thegroup.
With the debate over alcohol consumption Regulation places Lower growth, pro tability Regulatory intensifying in many markets, the alcohol increasing restrictions and reduced contribution industry is coming under increasing onthe availability and tolocal communities in changes pressure from national and international marketing of beer.
regulators, NGOs and local governments.
Tax and excise changes cause pressure on pricing.
Following the Fosters acquisition, the group Failing to deliver Lower growth rates and Acquisition has committed to delivering a turnaround integration objectives pro tability.
Damage to the plan with speci c and communicated andcommercial and groups reputation for strong of Fosters financial value creation.
operational excellence commercial capability and targets communicated for making value-creating aspart of the acquisitions.
Failing to achieve the synergy and cost saving commitments of the transaction.
The group continues to execute a major Failing to derive the Increased programme Delivering business capability programme that will expected bene ts from costs, delays in bene t simplify processes, reduce costs and allow the projects currently realisation, business business local management teams to focus more under way.
disruption, reduced transformation closely on their markets.
Failing to contain competitive advantage programme costs or inthe medium term.
ensure execution is in line with planned timelines.
16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities with potential Creating a balanced and attractive to create value are pursued.
Proven integration processes, procedures and practices are applied to ensure delivery Constantly raising the pro tability of expected returns.
Activities to deliver synergies and leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
Developing non-traditional capabilities to enter and grow pro tably in new markets.
Ongoing evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that they target Developing strong, relevant brand current and future opportunities for pro table growth.
portfolios that win in the local market.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing programmes.
Constantly raising the pro tability Ensuring we have deep understanding of changing consumer and industry dynamics of local businesses, sustainably.
inkey markets, enabling us to respond appropriately to issues which may impact our Leveraging our skills and global scale.
Continued enhancement of the SABMiller Marketing Way which sets out the best practice approach for our commercial processes.
Focus on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing thecritical commercial capabilities that are required in order to win in local markets.
Further develop the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Global Talent Developing strong, relevant brand Management model and strategic people resourcing.
Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment and personal development.
Constantly raising the pro tability Standardisation of key processes and best practices across the group through the of local businesses, sustainably.
roll-out of the SABMiller Ways.
Leveraging our skills and global scale.
Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by appropriate policies Creating a balanced and attractive and management review.
Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders on alcoholDeveloping strong, relevant brand related issues and working with them to address the harmful use of alcohol.
Investment to improve the economic and social impact of our businesses in local Constantly raising the pro tability communities and working in partnership with local governments and NGOs.
Embedding of the SABMiller Ways its processes, systems and tools throughout Creating a balanced and attractive theFosters business.
Ongoing monitoring of progress versus the integration plan, including frequent and Developing strong, relevant brand regular tracking of key performance indicators.
Constantly raising the pro tability of local businesses, sustainably.
Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress and in making key decisions.
Constantly raising the pro tability Mechanisms in place to track both costs and bene ts.
Rigorous programme management and governance processes with dedicated Leveraging our skills and global scale.
