Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risk sensibly is a key element of achieving our strategic objectives and maintaining high-quality services to our customers Our risk management strategy is designed to support the successful running of the business and provide assurance to the Board by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level.
We have reviewed our strategic plans to identify potential high-level risks that may impact our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties have been updated to reect the current status of our strategic delivery, with previously reported risks being split into component parts to give greater visibility on our mitigation plans and provide a clearer link to our strategy.
Other lower-level risks are analysed and mitigated via risk management processes that are embedded in the day-to-day running of the business.
Identify Evaluate Our risk management process Mitigate Analyse To read more about internal control and risk management, turn to page 67 46 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Potential impact Principal mitigations Technology transformation We do not meet market expectations or Individual initiatives are monitored by the compete effectively with rival providers: Group Executive Committee and Group Project There is a risk that we do not successfully Management Ofce PMO.
Targets, milestones transform our business in relation to Negative impact on future revenue and damage and timelines are tracked and progress is regularly technology initiatives by failing to achieve to future growth potential: reported and reviewed: targets and milestones, and meet our Loss of existing customers and inability strategic timetable.
Strategic opportunities are regularly reviewed to attract new customers: and by the Group Board: and Negative reputational impact.
The Technology Advisory Group reviews specic key technology initiatives on a regular basis.
Online solutions Negative reputational impact: Detailed product and services release and quality control procedures: There is a risk that we do not Data breach, corruption, or loss, leading to provide highly-available and secure potential regulatory penalties or financial loss: Thorough quality assurance processes and online solutions.
initiatives relating to the level of service provided Negative impact on current and future revenue to customers: and damage to future growth potential: and Detailed framework to control the risks associated Loss of existing customers and inability with the provision of online services and the to attract new customers.
protection of data: and Ongoing monitoring of availability and security incidents for online solutions.
Resource allocation Short-term financial results, including budgets Detailed business planning and budget processes and KPIs, are not achieved: and to allocate resource and review results on a There is a risk that we do not appropriately regular basis.
allocate resources to key priorities and do Strategic initiatives are not completed and not balance short-term delivery needs with our potential is not realised.
Pricing initiatives Negative impact on future growth potential: and Individual initiatives are monitored by the Group Executive Committee and Group PMO.
Targets, There is a risk that we do not complete Strategic initiatives are not completed and our milestones and timelines are tracked and progress the pricing initiatives to deliver expected potential is not realised.
is regularly reported and reviewed: and benets within the agreed timescales.
Recruitment of pricing strategists throughout the Group.
Regulatory and compliance failure Negative reputational impact: Group-wide compliance programme which seeks to ensure that all local, national and international Data breach, corruption, or loss leading to There is a risk that we suffer a significant regulatory and compliance requirements are compliance or regulatory failure, or that potential regulatory penalties or financial loss: identied and complied with.
we do not have appropriate governance, Impact on current and future revenues and decision making, or delegation of damage to future growth potential: authorities in place.
Loss of existing customers and inability to attract new customers: and Loss of shareholder confidence.
Traditional products Negative reputational impact: Detailed product and services release and quality control procedures: and There is a risk that we suffer a major Impact on current and future revenues and quality issue with a significant traditional, damage to future growth potential: and Thorough quality assurance processes and on-premise product.
initiatives relating to the level of service provided Loss of existing customers and inability to customers.
Source code and intellectual property Unauthorised copies of our software, Continual policing of unauthorised use leading to loss of revenue and or customers: of our products: There is a risk that we do not appropriately protect our source code Negative reputational impact: and Secure storage and protection of source and intellectual property.
code and intellectual property throughout Impact on current and future revenues and the Group: and damage to future growth potential.
Reliance on laws and regulations.
Change management Loss of talent and resources key to successful Change management programme, including strategic delivery: talent review and systems requirements With new business priorities, there are review: and risks associated with the change Inability to operate effectively and maintain management impact on employees, a competitive edge: and Key man dependency and succession systems and the alignment of talent planning processes.
Loss of sensitive information and knowledge.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47
