STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Following review by the Executive Committee, INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT The Group aims to embed its risk management AND GROUP RISKPHILOSOPHY procedures within its existing business a risk questionnaire is compiled and circulated to each Boardmember, who is required The Board is ultimately responsible for processes andcorporate governance structure, managing risk, and for the implementation of rather than impose an inefficient administrative tomake an individual assessment of the potential significance of each risk.
Completed effective risk management procedures and burden on its operations.
Ataminimum, the internal control systems.
Across the Group, Group aims to ensure that any individually questionnaires are subsequently reviewed and discussed at the Groups June Board meeting these are designed to align with the UK significant event that: Corporate Governance Codes guidance on eachyear, following which a Group Principal i h as or may result in the potential to Risk list iscompiled and presented for review Risk Management andInternal Control.
The compromise itsability to achieve its Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and discussion bytheBoard at the July Board objectives:or meeting.
The final step intheprocess is an the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems that were in operation during the year, ii c ould lead to a material breach of policies update of all Principal Risk lists, which is performed late in each calendar year by and the fulfilment of this responsibility is and procedures:or described in theAudit Committee report eachoperation as part of the annual budgetiii c ould impact the delivery of earnings setting process and ultimately presented to onpages 36 to 39. materially atalocal operational level theBoard at its Januarymeeting.
In between An integrated risk management framework formal updates, the Board monitors progress is identified, reported on and dealt with through continues toevolve within the Group, aimed the Groups risk management procedures.
inthe management of individual risks via atimproving theefficiency and effectiveness regular executive and divisional reporting ofthe Groups risk management procedures.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK procedures and review and discussion of This initiative is sponsored bythe Board, REPORTING PROCEDURES thesereports at Board meetings.
aligned with industry best practice and is The Group has a well-established annual designed to take account of the Groups process for identifying, evaluating and PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS internal culture.
As a result of this initiative, managing its significant risks.
This process Overall, the Groups risk profile was largely examples of process areas previously identified starts in April each year with a risk review unchanged in2013 when compared to 2012. for increased focus were strategic planning and and assessment conducted at each ofthe The principal potential risks and uncertainties objective setting, and the Groups approach to Groups operations, facilitated by local senior which could have a material impact onthe internal audit, business continuity, IT policies, management.
APrincipal Risk list is generated Groups future performance and ability to internal controls over financial reporting and from eachreview, with individual risks assigned deliver on its stated strategic objectives, risk reporting.
Goodprogress has been made to the categories of Strategic, Operational, together with actions that are being taken with the implementation of these process Compliance or Financial Reporting in nature.
tomitigate each risk, are set outon pages improvements, which are becoming Local management is required to record details 14and15.
of controls that are in place to mitigate each risk, make an assessment of the residual Seniors risk philosophy, embodied in a Risk likelihood and impact of each risk having a Philosophy Statement which has been rolled material impact on the operations ability out across the Group, isbased around an toachieve itsobjectives, and to record any acknowledgement that profits are in part the improvement measures that are targeted reward for risk taking, and therefore risk should tostrengthen the operations internal control be embraced and managed effectively within environment around each risk.
The results each business unit.
The Group aims to take ofthese reviews are consolidated at divisional arelatively conservative approach to risk level with an accompanying divisional overlay, management, targeting adevelopmental and divisional Principal Risk lists are then approach that is evolutionary rather than submitted for review and discussion revolutionary.
Pursuit of opportunities is bytheExecutive Committee.
encouraged, within an effective risk management framework, as an essential component of a high-performance culture.
Itisacknowledged that strong risk management procedures are likely to enhance senior leadership decision-making capabilities, strengthen accountability and enhance stewardship of the Groups assets.
In turn this can be expected to result in management teams being able to embrace increased levels of risk and pursuemore opportunities, which should also allow theGroup to increase its rate of performance delivery without exceeding its risk appetite.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 13 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued KEY INCREASED RISK DECREASED RISK CONSTANT RISK RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK PRICE-DOWN PRESSURES Customer pricing pressure is expected The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products toincrease, driven by the expectations of atalowercost thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
airlines and Governments of purchasing more The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer competitively priced aircraft in the future.
This can be expected to put pressure on Where appropriate, the Group is able to pass work to some of its lower cost facilities such theGroups future operating margins.
asThailand and Mexico, with a view to help satisfy customer challenges.
IMPORTANCE OF EMERGING MARKETS Customers desire to move manufacture of The Groups strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering manufacturing components to lower cost countries could companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from products where the render the Groups operations uncompetitive directthreat of lower cost country manufacture is significant.
and have an adverse impact on profitability.
The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering expertise close In addition, certain customers require global to customers locations, principally in North America and Europe.
This enables effective support to programme support as they respond to bereadily given to its customers, whilst increasing manufacturing at above-average growth rates increasing domestic demand in a number inlower cost country locations where it makes sense to dosoand with customeragreement.
The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India and China.
Each of these operations, individually and incombination, hasahealthy number of viable opportunities for further expansion either to supplydomestic markets or to support customers increasingly globalneeds.
ACQUISITIONS Failure to execute an effective acquisition Consistently strong free cash flow generation gives the Group capacity tocontinue to execute programme would have asignificant impact a targeted acquisition programme.
on the Groups ability to generate long-term The Group has a well-established acquisition framework that includes proven valuation, value forshareholders.
due diligence and integration processes.
Post-acquisition reviews are performed on all acquisitions, comprising a full retrospective review of each deal process, integration effectiveness, operational performance compared to expectation and sharing of lessons learned with the Board and across the senior managementteam.
STRATEGY An appropriately formulated, communicated Focus is placed on the strategic planning process, toensure that the Group formulates the most and effectively executed strategy is essential appropriate strategy tocapitalise, over time, on the significant breadth of potential to avoid the risk of inappropriate allocation of growthopportunities in its chosen market sectors.
resources and failure todeliver on long-term The process includes regular strategy sessions at operational, Executive Committee and performancegoals.
A Capital Markets day, held in October, included a presentation on certain aspects of the Groupsstrategy to enhance further the external communication process.
Thispresentation is available on the Companys website.
PROGRAMME PARTICIPATION Long-term growth in demand, including The Group has developed a portfolio of businesses that are exposed to markets which exhibit participation in future development fundamental long-term growth characteristics.
programmes in the Groups major markets, Customer value is driven through constructive and co-operative relationships with key customers is an essential foundation for future growth.
ineach market, providing innovative customer solutions and quality products delivered on Failure to secure profitable new programme timeandin line with specifications.
wins could have asevere impact on The Group ensures that its operations are sufficiently well capitalised tobeable to bid competitively Groupperformance.
on new programme opportunities, and maintains close control over operating costs to ensure that operations remain competitive on existing programmes.
The Group utilises an internal contract approval process, comprising bothfinancial and non-financial analyses, to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels.
14 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK NEW AIRCRAFT PLATFORM DELAYS Significant shipset content has beensecured The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft platforms on a number of new aircraft platforms very closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
currently under development or in initial A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to minimise the time phases ofproduction.
These include between installation and utilisation ofnew capital equipment, and to the projected build rates and Bombardiers CSeries regional jet, the Airbus associated revenue in financial projections.
Delays The growing breadth of Seniors exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of aerospace in the launch or ramp up in production of andland vehicle platforms, together with itsbroad exposure in global industrial markets, means these platforms could have a material adverse that the Groups future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new impact on the Groups rate of organicgrowth.
EMPLOYEE RETENTION An inability to attract, develop and retain Capable, empowered and highly engaged individuals are a key asset of thebusiness.
The strong high-quality individuals in key management reputation of the Group helps attract experienced senior executives from within the industry.
positions could severely affect the long-term The Group sponsors the development and training of key managers, at alllevels, through success of theGroup.
anincreasingly comprehensive in-house management development programme.
Senior management turnover ratios remain low, a further indication of success in this importantarea.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BREACH Corporate governance legislation such asthe The Group has well-established governance policies and procedures inall key areas, including a UK Bribery Act and theUS Foreign Corrupt Group Code of Business Conduct, a Health andSafety Charter, anti-bribery procedures and various Practices Act, regulations and guidance such policies and procedures over the review and reporting of risk management and internal control as the UK Corporate Governance Code and activities.
global health and safety regulations are The Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary and the Headof Internal Audit increasingly complex and onerous.
A serious collectively retain principal responsibility for maintaining and reporting on governance changes breach of these rules and regulations could thatmay have an impact on the Group.
have a significant impact on the Groups Periodic governance updates are provided to the Board and Executive Committee at reputation, lead to a loss of confidence on appropriateintervals, and to key operational management.
Recent examples of developments thepart of investors, customers or other inthis area include formulation ofaBusiness Continuity Framework, IT Policy Guidelines, stakeholders and ultimately have a material andanti-bribery training.
adverse impact onthe Groups enterprisevalue.
FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY The Group could have insufficient financial The Groups overall treasury risk management programme focuses onthe unpredictability resources to fund its growth strategy or meet offinancial markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups its financial obligations as they fall due.
Compliance with financial policies and exposure limits are reviewed bytheGroups Treasury Committee on a regular basis.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge theexchange risk arising onoperations trading activities in foreign currencies and does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and paying close attention to theprojected level ofheadroom under the covenants contained in itscommitted borrowing facilities.
GLOBAL CYCLICAL DOWNTURN The potential adverse impact on the Group The Group is well positioned in its key aerospace, industrial, and emission-related sectors of land of significant demand declines in key markets vehicle markets, where increasingly stringent legislation should ensure that long-term demand for arising from the consequences of either the Groupsproducts remains healthy.
future sovereign debt issues, ongoing The Groups financing position improved again in 2013 as cash conversion remained strong government austerity measures, and or withnomajor borrowing facilities expiring before October 2014. political instability in the Middle East or Through diversity of its end-market exposures and a robust financingposition, the Group remains elsewhere remains significant.
well placed to be able to withstand potential negative consequences that may arise from afurtherglobal cyclical downturn.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 15
