Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties as social, environmental and ethical impact, as We also have material investments in a Principal risks described within the Corporate Responsibility number of joint ventures, where we have The Group Risk Register identifies the principal section.
joint control over management practices.
risks facing the business as a whole, including Our representatives within these companies those that are managed directly at Group level.
The most significant risks relate to our ensure that their processes and procedures for These are managed through a formal process.
reputation, and to operational and financial identifying and managing risk are appropriate More information on our risk management performance, which are all direct threats to and that internal controls exist and are regularly framework can be found on pages 70 to 73. the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Summarised on the following pages are the The Groups key stakeholders include, but key risks we have identified that could have We keep reputational and emerging risks under are not limited to, customers, shareholders, a material impact on our reputation, our active review and inform the Board of changes.
suppliers, staff, trade unions, government, operations or our financial performance.
Emerging risks cover longer-term risks that regulators, banks and insurers.
The way we A number of our other risks reflect social could represent a threat to our activities but operate as a responsible company recognises and ethical issues.
which are not yet sufficiently defined to be the interests of the community in areas such included as active risks.
Group risks and mitigating actions overview Market risks Risk | Change in the political environment Description Comment Impact Mitigation As a major proportion of Sercos customers are governments and governmental Reduction in market opportunities Business strategy agencies, a substantial part of the business is dependent on government policies, Changes to terms of existing or Diverse business across budget priorities and regulatory or political constraints, in particular those regarding new contracts geographies and markets maintaining and improving public infrastructure, which could have a significant impact Failure to meet growth or profit Dedicated teams regularly on the size, scope, timing and duration of contracts and orders under them and expectations monitor the political landscape therefore on the level of business that we may win.
As such, these businesses are and government activities, susceptible to changes in government, government policy, budget allocations and reporting on government policy the political environment, primarily in the UK, Australia and the US.
Any reduction in changes and the political such government expenditure and funding could result in a suspension, cancellation, environments where we are termination or non-renewal of contracts.
Revenues may also be adversely affected operating.
We continue to by changes to the UK Governments, US Governments or Australian Governments develop expertise and capability policy in respect of outsourcing.
in new markets and geographies Failure to understand and manage the consequences of changes in the political environment, adverse changes in political stability, political leadership, policy and economic conditions will often negatively affect current and future business.
The sustainability of Sercos business with governments is dependent on normal stable government and a favourable policy climate to outsourcing.
The policy environment may change and favourable markets may become hostile, leading to loss of business and reduced opportunities.
12 Strategic Report Risk | Failure to win a strategic or significant bid or rebid Description Comment Impact Mitigation Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts could restrict growth Failure to meet growth or profit Business Lifecycle governance opportunities for the future or have an adverse impact on Sercos business, financial expectations process embedded in SMS condition and results of operations.
Further, a significant number of Sercos contracts Significant financial loss or cost Governance structure managed with the UK Government, the US Government and other public sector customers, overrun through Investment and Ethics including renewals and extensions of previous contracts, are awarded through formal Negative reputational impact, Committee, Programme and competitive bidding processes.
Competitive bidding processes present a number of potentially resulting in loss of Project Boards, Divisional and risks, including substantial cost and management time and effort to prepare bids and existing or new business Contract Boards proposals for contracts that may not be won.
In addition, there is often a long period Impact on strategic objectives Business strategy and targets between a successful competition tender offer and entering into definitive contractual managed through internal boards documentation and financial close, and in some cases financial close may not occur.
Regular review and monitoring of Risk Registers If Serco does not continue to be competitive, show entrepreneurial spirit and deliver Gate reviews of bids and formal our promises, it may result in our failing to win material bids or renew material sign-off process contracts, which could restrict growth opportunities for the future or have an adverse Robust bidding and contract impact on Sercos business, financial condition and results of operations.
We will review process including become increasingly less competitive and our growth will stagnate.
Margins will financial, technical and remain at current levels or reduce, impacting on share price and making us an commercial reviews increasingly less attractive prospect for investors.
Serco will also suffer from losing money due to the financing of unsuccessful bids.
Risk | Failure to effectively manage brand reputation Description Comment Impact Mitigation The economic value of our business is significantly impacted by our reputation, Failure to meet growth or profit Governance structure managed reflected in our share price, rating, ability to attract and retain talent, win business, expectations through Investment and Ethics attract finance, and maintain our licence to operate.
That reputation is held in the Significant financial loss or cost Committee, Programme and minds of others and broadly consists of their attitudes towards our Company and overrun Project Boards, and Divisional the actions they subsequently take.
Our future success will not Loss of contract revenue related and Contract Boards just depend on rational factors such as price, pay levels or contractual performance to operations and service charges An effective risk, issues and but also emotional attitudes towards the Company and the contracting market as a Could impact share price controls structure identifies whole.
We will need to decide how we wish to define and be seen by the full spectrum Inability to attract the human and potential reputational impacts, of customers from the economic buyers to the actual end users and beneficiaries financial capital necessary to allowing effective management of the services we provide and other stakeholders.
grow or expand into new markets and oversight Damage to reputation resulting Customer engagement and The events of last year relating to two UK government contracts have negatively in loss of existing or new business employee engagement strategies impacted Sercos reputation and brand, including our ability to bid for and win Impact on strategic objectives Relationship management UK Government business during the second half of 2013. and communication with external stakeholders.
13 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Operational risks Risk | Major information security breach Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with restrictions on the handling of sensitive information including Loss of service to our customers Security and information systems personal and customer and provide for secure transmission of such information.
Damage to reputation, resulting policies, systems and embedded This is a heightened risk, particularly with respect to government contracts, due to in loss of existing or new governance structure the sensitive and confidential nature of government data.
Despite controls to ensure business such as disqualification Think Privacy campaign to raise the confidentiality of such information, Serco may breach restrictions or be subject from future tenders or contract staff awareness, provide training, to cyber attacks e. g. from computer programs or hacktivist groups that may attempt termination promote incident reporting and to penetrate its network security and misappropriate confidential information.
Impact on strategic objectives strengthen control processes Costly to rectify and potential for Cyber security contract dilution of shareholder returns Risk assessments Criminal and civil action Cyber resilience of enterprise Contract and business external applications accreditations withdrawn User management, multifactor Significant media attention and authentication, user awareness future scrutiny Regular risk reviews ISO 27000 certification Governance risks Risk | Significant incident of bribery or corrupt practice Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco operates in international markets, which brings with it inherent risks including Legal action and fines against Policies and systems embedded bribery and corruption, particularly in certain developing nations.
the company in SMS Debarment from tender lists Code of Conduct Serco operates in a number of countries which are recognised as having a higher Damage to reputation resulting Ethics Committee bribery and corruption risk.
Increasing legislation significantly increases the in loss of existing or new business Speak Up process consequences of bribes and other corrupt practices.
Significant media attention and Ethics and compliance future scrutiny programme and training Risk assessment Third-party contracts 14 Strategic Report People risks Risk | Failure to retain attract key leadership talent Description Comment Impact Mitigation The success of the company depends on the efforts, abilities, experience and Risk of not achieving level of People policies and systems, expertise of the senior management teams and on recruiting, retaining, motivating, planned growth strategy and targets supported effectively communicating with and developing highly skilled and competent people Increased cost in recruitment by governance structure, at all levels of the organisation.
There can be intense competition for personnel activity and time taken to fill roles including Remuneration from other companies and organisations and there may at any time be shortages Instability and loss of business Committee in the availability of appropriately skilled people at all levels within Serco.
Further, continuity Succession planning the company cannot guarantee the retention of such key executives and technical Dilution of brand and values Leadership model personnel.
The failure of the company to retain and or recruit additional or substitute Reduced employee engagement Annual external independent senior managers and or other key employees could have a material adverse effect through loss of compelling remuneration review on its business.
leadership Job structure and grading system Strengthen competitors through Talent database and leadership loss of leaders to them development programme Employment engagement strategy, including annual staff survey Finance risks Risk | The impairment of goodwill could adversely impact reported results Description Comment Impact Mitigation Goodwill accounted for 45% of Serco Groups recorded total assets as at Inability to meet profit Internal board and governance 31 December 2013.
Serco evaluates goodwill for impairment annually or more expectations structure frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists.
Any decrease in expected Potential for breach of financial Strategic plans cash flows or deterioration in market conditions could require Serco to record covenants Business plans impairment charges that could have a material impact on the financial position Damage to reputation and Business Lifecycle Governance and results of operations.
shareholder confidence process Impact on strategic objectives Financial review and reporting 15
