Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Risk management Key risks are reported to the Audit Our approach to risk Risk management in practice Committee and to the board every Across the group our approach to risk Our assets right across our region work sixmonths in the form of risk maps.
balances the need to effectively manage 24hours a day seven days a week to providewater to our customers or to take inherent risks and also the opportunity Inaddition, individual risks or specic away and treat our customers waste water.
toimprove our performance through risktopics are also discussed by the With so many assets working so many selected risks.
We also have hours, occasionally things break down and regular risk deep dives at our executive Within the largest part of our group, we need to know about this as soon as team meetings.
These take the form possible so that services to our customers Severn Trent Water, our approach reects ofupdates from individual business are not affected.
our status as a regulated utility providing teams within Severn Trent Water on We have systems in place to monitor the essential services and operating as part theirprogress with improving controls performance of assets and processes so of the Critical National Infrastructure for that we can be alerted as soon as possible and providing effective mitigation for the UK.
The nature of our Severn Trent to potential problems.
A few examples their most significant risks.
Water business is such that there are include devices to monitor water levels in some significant inherent risks as We have also continued with our work our sewerage networks, chlorine levels illustrated in the section headed Principal tomake sure that the annual business inourwater distribution network and levels risks.
We aim to have a strong control planning process within Severn Trent ofwater stored in our reservoirs.
framework in place to enable us to Water is closely aligned to the ERM The monitoring of our processes is critical to understand our risks and manage process so that we can be confident that us and the ERM process has helped us to highlight the risks associated with the failure themeffectively.
our business plans adequately address of this monitoring system and has allowed key risk areas.
Although the Severn Trent Services us to put controls in place.
For example, businesses are not generally regulated, wehave reviewed our stock of critical spares Principal risks we provide products and services for to ensure continuous monitoring can be There are a number of significant risks clients who operate in regulated achieved: established an auditable process which are inherent to companies to track changes to the monitoring software environments and, as a result, we take combined with a planned back-up of the operating water and sewage treatment asimilar approach to risk.
programme: and have set up Framework works, distribution networks and related Across the group the management of Agreements contracts with our business activities.
These are shown on our risks takes place within the overall partners to support us with maintaining business models on pages 14 to 15 and thesystem.
governance framework which includes 26 to 27 and include: clear accountabilities and delegated Effective risk control within these systems F we, or our clients, operate in heavily helps to reduce interruptions to customer authority limits.
supplies, and minimise the risk of sewer regulated environments and are ooding and pollution events.
subject to many varied, complex and Our Enterprise Risk changing obligations.
As result, we face Managementprocess risks associated with non-compliance: We continue to use our established F Severn Trent Water has an extensive Enterprise Risk Management ERM network of assets and the failure of key process across the group to assess and individual or collections of these assets manage our most significant risks.
could result in a significant impact on Weanalyse both the possible causes our core business activities: ofarisk and what the impact would be F we face risks to the health, safety and ifthe risk occurred.
Using this process, well-being of our people, customers weare able to consider the controls and contractors as a result of the needed to minimise the likelihood of nature of our operations: risksoccurring and those which can F our business operations depend on the helpto maximise our resilience to risks.
effective performance of key supply Our assessment of risks includes explicit chain partners: consideration of the possible impact of F we share a concern with many other the risk on the reputation of the group businesses over our ability to fund asa whole.
The understanding which longterm pension promises: and weare able to gain from our ERM process F we share concerns with other allows us to put in place effective businesses over access to funding and mitigation strategies.
over the security of funds placed with counterparties, particularly in the current unsettled economic climate.
Where appropriate, these are discussed in the table of principal risks overleaf.
40 Business review Risk management Ref What is the risk?
Which part of What does it mean for us?
What are we doing to manage the risk?
Customer Perception 1 We may be unable to Severn Trent Failure to deliver the service customers We have co-ordinated programmes of work improve and maintain Water expect will lead to customer underway across all parts of Severn Trent Water our levels of customer dissatisfaction and as a result we may not to improve our processes and our technology service sufciently gain customers support for our business toenable us to deliver outstanding todeliver what our plan for the next price review period customerservice.
We are pleased that we are the most improved theywant.
If we are unable to provide the level of water and sewerage company in the UK in terms service we want to our customers we of customer satisfaction as measured by Ofwats may also suffer financial penalties under SIM measures.
Whilst our performance in the Ofwats SIM.
league tables has signicantly improved, it is still not as good as we would like.
We will continue with our organisation wide improvement programmes which include looking for ways to make our processes as customerfriendly as possible.
2 We may be unable to Group wide We may lose income as a result of We have worked to improve our levels of service respond effectively to business retail customers moving to for all customers and we continue to focus on the opening up of the competitors or we may fail to successfully offering the lowest charges.
business retail market to grow our business by offering a more Within Severn Trent Water, we are developing a competition.
attractive service which results in strategy for improving our offering to large customers moving to us.
business customers and we are implementing the necessary organisational and system changes needed to better serve these customers.
Legal and Regulatory Environment 3 We may be unable to Severn Trent The major part of our business, Severn Our joint publication with National Grid, effectively anticipate Water Trent Water, operates in a highly Changingcourse through sustainable and or inuence regulatedenvironment.
Whilst we are nancingwhich was published during the futuredevelopments in broadly content with the direction of yearset out our proposals for securing the the UKwater industry changes proposed for our industry, longterm future of the UK water industry.
resulting in our business thereremains a risk that future We will continue to engage with our peers, plans becoming changescould have a significant Ofwatand other regulators, UK Government unsustainable.
departments and other stakeholders to inuence the direction of regulatory policy where possible.
4 Ofwat may not support Severn Trent We submit a business plan to Ofwat In developing our five year plan for the next price our business plan Water everyve years.
When we submit our review period, we have worked closely with our submission for the next plans, there is a risk that they will not customers and with our independent customer price review period achieve therequired Ofwat assessment challenge group, the Water Forum, to ensure our AMP6 for 20152020, level.
Thismay result in more changes plans reect customers priorities.
or we may fail to meet being required to the plan.
We operate an established and robust internal some of the targets There is a risk that we will be unable to business planning process.
We review and update agreed with Ofwat in our deliver all of our agreed objectives in our our business plan on an annual basis.
Failure to achieve the targets against the targets agreed in our annual business could result in Ofwat being less willing to plans is monitored each quarter.
This enables support our business plan submission for usto make adjustments to planned activities the next price review period and could ifwe identify any concerns about our ability to result in additional funding requirements achieve our annual plans or the five year plan in the current period.
We will continue to monitor achievement of ourcurrent plan and to engage with the Water Forum to validate our proposals for the next price review period.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Business review Risk management Ref What is the risk?
5 The regulatory Group wide Our policies and processes must reect We have a group wide code of conduct Doing the landscape is complex the current legal and regulatory right thing The Severn Trent way together with and subject to ongoing environment and all relevant employees policies, standards, procedures and relevant change.
There is a risk must be kept aware of new requirements.
training for employees to mitigate this risk.
that processes may fail Due to the spread of our operations, and During the year, we have continued with our or that our processes changes in activity and organisational extensive programme to raise awareness of may not effectively keep structure this is not always straightforward.
This has included e-learning pace with changes in The group as a whole may face censure forrelevant employees in relation to Competition legislation leading to the for non-compliance in an individual group Law and Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation.
company or a specic region in which We will continue our programme of training and weoperate.
We are also carrying out a review of the mechanisms by which we gain assurance that policies are fully complied with across the group to ensure these mechanisms remain t for purpose.
Operations, assets and people 6 Our assets or processes Group wide The nature of our work requires our We have clearly identied roles, responsibilities, may fail resulting in employees and contractors to undertake standards and processes for controlling health, injury to an employee, activities or to use equipment which have safety and well-being risks.
Our strategy, which contractor or member potential to cause serious harm.
Whilst seeks to ensure that no one gets hurt or made ofthe public.
we take every precaution to prevent injury, unwell by what we do, includes improvement asset failure or failure to follow agreed activity on the management system, behavioural processes may result in someone being safety culture and occupational health with a hurt.
Specic examples include injury to focus on preventing incidents.
At a local level, our employees using chemicals in our safety improvement teams identify and address processes.
Additionally, failure of one of hazards.
We monitor safety performance and our key assets such as a reservoir could have delivered year on year reductions in result in injury to customers or members incidents and increases in prevention activity.
Our assets are subject to regular and rigorous monitoring including independent inspection of our reservoirs to ensure that they remain safe andthat maintenance work is undertaken whereneeded.
We will continue with our programme of safety education and improvements and with our rigorous monitoring and maintenance regimes for critical assets.
7 We may fail to meet all Severn Trent If we are unable to meet operational We continue to monitor and invest in our assets of our regulatory targets Water performance targets, we may be and to improve our processes in order to including targets from subjected to significant regulatory maintainour services to our customers.
We have Ofwat in relation to penalties either within the current price continued our major programmes of work to ongoing operational review period, or applied to the next review all aspects of our operations, including the performance of our pricereview.
necessary improvements to maintain continuous assets resulting in supplies, ensure water quality, reduce sewer Regulatory targets apply to all of regulatory penalties.
collapses andsewer ooding and improve ourwater treatment, distribution, .
sewerage and sewage treatment assets.
Measuresare in place in relation Our business plan submission for the price review towaterquality, continuous supplies, period from 2015-2020 will include the necessary sewerooding, sewer collapses and funding for upgrades and improvements to our pollution events.
assets to allow us to continue to provide good quality water and to effectively treat waste water for our customers.
42 Business review Risk management Ref What is the risk?
8 Failure of certain key Severn Trent Some of our assets are critical to the We have asset management plans in place assets may result in an Water provision of water to large populations for whichdrive investment in maintenance and inability to provide a which there are limited alternative means improvement of our assets in order to maintain continuous supply of of supply.
These assets are regularly our service to customers.
quality water to large inspected and maintained and our We also have security measures to protect our populations within our assessment of the overall condition is good.
assets and contingency plans to maintain area, or in damage to If a failure were to occur the consequence supplies in the event of failure.
would result in temporary inability to We will continue to develop and implement continue to serve our customers.
assetmanagement plans to ensure the long term sustainability of our services.
Financial Risks 9 The current economic Group wide As a result of current market conditions We ensure we maintain access to funds through climate may increase and economic conditions across the cash held on short term deposit and through our the difficulties associated eurozone, there may be increased committed borrowing facilities.
We constantly with obtaining funding difficulty for all businesses to obtain funds.
monitor the possible impacts of economic for the group at similar We may therefore be unable to meet all conditions on the funding requirements for the rates to those assumed of our funding requirements at group.
We have diversied sources of funding and in our business plan.
have a timetable for replacement of committed lending facilities which allows us more than one opportunity to go to market in order to mitigate against short term problems in the marketplace.
We will continue to monitor our financial position and future requirements and to maintain access to a diversied source of funds.
We will also continue our strategy of early renancing where this is beneficial to the group.
10 Changing demographics Group wide We already provide significant funding.
We regularly revalue our schemes and monitor and uctuations in the We may be called upon to provide our investment performance.
investment market may moremoney to reduce deficits in our We have introduced new pension arrangements affect our ability to fund pension schemes.
which we believe will be fairer for all our pension promises employees as well as reducing the build up sustainably.
ofdecit in future years, thus allowing us to continue to fund pensions sustainably into thefuture.
We will continue to monitor the performance of our pension investments and to work closely with our third party advisors to ensure that the schemes are managed effectively.
11 Counterparties with Group wide From time to time we may have We have strict policies which restrict the whom we have invested considerable sums available which we counterparties we can invest with and limit the money may fail, putting have not yet invested in agreed capital amount which can be invested with individual our investment at risk.
programmes, and we need to manage counterparties.
We continuously monitor the this in the most advantageous way for credit status of all our counterparties to ensure our customers and shareholders.
we only deposit with those who have good credit However, with any investment there is a status.
Compliance with our policies is monitored risk of default which could result in continuously to mitigate this risk.
We will continue to monitor the external market environment and maintain our policies to mitigate this risk.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Governance 44 Board of directors 46 Executive Committee 47 Chairmans letter 48 Governance report 52 Nominations Committee 54 Audit Committee 56 Corporate Responsibility Committee 57 Remuneration Committee 71 Directors report D 75 irectors responsibility statement
