Principal risks and uncertainties The Company has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, Risk Management Internal assess and manage the significant risks Governance Framework that it faces.
While the Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Board Mitigation of principal risks Established a risk governance framework The management and mitigation of risks and ensures the ACR Committee has the are a key focus of the Board which, resources to fulfill its role.
together with the Audit, Compliance & Risk ACR Committee, reviews risks impacting the Company on a timely basis as they arise, as well as periodically.
In addition, the Company has established a Risk The Audit, Compliance Council, which is supported by the Global & Risk Committee ACR Compliance and Risk Management Monitors the effectiveness of the risk management GCRM Department, to oversee process and the internal control structure.
themanagement and mitigation of the principal risks faced by the Company, asset out below.
The Risk Council and theGCRM Department are respectively chaired and managed by the Chief The Executive Committee EC Compliance and Risk Officer.
Ensures that an effective risk management process and a robust internal control structure Risk Council are implemented.
The Risk Councils membership includes senior members of the Companys business units and corporate functions, in addition to the Head of Internal Audit.
It is Business Units & charged with overseeing the Companys Corporate Functions risk management process and activities, Implements a risk management process and and as such, ensures that each business establishes internal controls within their respective unit and corporate function periodically organizations.
reviews the significant risks they face in accordance with an approved framework.
This review, which occurs biannually, includes identifying operational risks, compliance risks and risks to the Global Compliance & Risk achievement of goals and objectives.
Management Risk Council GCRM TheRisk Council ensures that there is Facilitates and supports the enterprise risk anowner who is responsible for the management process.
management or mitigation of each identified risk.
Material risks and associated mitigation plans are recorded on a corporate risk schedule for ongoing Internal Audit & Other review and assessment by the Risk Assurance Functions Council, which is also reviewed and Provides an independent assurance to the EC validated by the Executive Committee.
and ACR Committees that the risk management and Inaddition, the risk schedule is reviewed internal control environment is operating effectively.
biannually by the ACR Committee, and annually by the Board.
24 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report GCRM The Companys revenues, financial received approval to launch their own The GCRM Department is responsible for condition or results of operations may generic versions of ADDERALL XR.
Shire supporting the development and beadversely affected if any or all of the currently sells authorized generic versions implementation of practices that facilitate following occur: of ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax and employees compliance with laws and also continues to sell the branded version if the Companys products, or competitive Company policy.
The principal focus of the of ADDERALL XR.
products, are genericized: Departments compliance effort is to In 2013, Shire settled a number of patent prevent and detect misconduct or if the prices of the Companys products lawsuits in the United States against non-compliance with laws or regulations suffer forced reductions or if prices of certain companies that had filed for through the promotion of ethical behavior, competitor products are reduced approval of their generic versions of policy development, appropriate training, significantly: INTUNIV.
Under the terms of the monitoring and audit.
The GCRM settlements, Actavis was granted a license if there are unanticipated adverse events Department provides assistance to help to make and market Actavis generic experienced with the Companys employees meet high ethical standards versions of INTUNIV in the United States products or those of a competitors and comply with applicable laws and on December 1, 2014.
All other parties product not seen in clinical trials that regulations: encouraging them to seek withwhom Shire has settled will be able impact physicians willingness to help and to report suspected cases of toenter the market with their respective prescribe the Companys products: misconduct without fear of retaliation ANDA-approved products after Actavis further details are available on page 61. if issues arise from clinical trials being 180-day exclusivity period has expired.
conducted for post-marketing purposes Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Revenues from ADDERALL XR declined or for registration in another country The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, following the launch of Actavis generic which raise questions or concerns about who reports directly to the Chief Executive, version of ADDERALL XR.
Revenues from a product: has access at all times to the Chairman of INTUNIV are expected to decline as a the ACR Committee which provides a if the regulatory agencies in one country result of the launch of Actavis generic mechanism for bypassing executive act in a way that raises concerns for versions of INTUNIV and to decline further management should the need arise.
In regulatory agencies or for prescribers following the expected launch of generic addition, the ACR Committee is regularly orpatients in another country: versions of INTUNIV by other companies provided with summary reports on the after Actavis 180-day exclusivity period if patients, payors or physicians favor Risk Council and general compliance expires.
other treatments over the Companys activities.
products: Factors which could cause further or more Risk factors rapid revenue decline include: if the Companys products are subject Set out below are the Companys key risk tomore stringent government regulation factors that have been identified through generic or authorized generic versions than competitor products: the implementation of the Companys risk ofthe Companys products capture management strategy.
Some of these risk moreof Shires branded market share if patent protection or other forms of factors are specific to the Company, and than expected: exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if others are more generally applicable to the competitors are able to challenge or the FDA approves additional ANDAs for pharmaceutical industry or specific circumvent the Companys patents or generic versions of the Companys markets within which the Company other forms of exclusivity See Note 19 to products which, if launched, further operates.
The Company considers that the consolidated financial statements set reduce branded market share or impact these risk factors apply equally and forth in this Annual Report for details of the amount of authorized generic sales therefore all should be carefully considered current litigation : and related royalties: before any investment is made in Shire.
if launch of the Companys products in the production of ADDERALL XR is Risk factors related to the new markets is not successful: disrupted by difficulties in obtaining a Companysbusiness sufficient supply of amphetamine salts The Companys products may not be if the sizes of the patient populations for including, but not limited to, an inability a commercial success the Companys products are less than toobtain sufficient quota from the DEA: The commercial success of the Companys expected: or marketed products and other new there are changes in reimbursement if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, products that the Company may launch policies of third party payors: or including but not limited to, product inthe future, will depend on their approval liability claims, consumer law claims, and there are changes to the level of sales and acceptance by physicians, patients payor or reimbursement litigation.
deductions for ADDERALL XR and and other key decision makers, as well INTUNIV for private or public payors.
asthe receipt of marketing approvals in If the Company is unable to commercialize different countries, the time taken to obtain its products successfully, there may be a The failure to obtain and maintain such approvals, the scope of marketing material adverse effect on the Companys reimbursement, or an adequate level approvals as reflected in the product labels, revenues, financial condition or results of of reimbursement, by third-party approval of reimbursement at commercially operations.
payors in a timely manner for the sustainable prices in those countries where Companys products may impact Revenues from ADDERALL XR are price and reimbursement is negotiated, future revenues, financial condition subject to generic competition and andsafety, efficacy, convenience and and results of operations revenues from INTUNIV will become cost-effectiveness of the product as The Companys revenues are partly subject to generic erosion starting in compared to competitive products.
dependent on the level of reimbursement December 2014 provided to the Company by governmental During 2012 the FDA clarified the reimbursement schemes for its products.
regulatory pathway required for approval Changes to governmental policy or ofgeneric versions of ADDERALL XR.
practices could adversely affect the Consequently in June 2012 and February Companys revenues, financial condition 2013, Actavis and Teva, respectively, and results of operations.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 25 lost product sales, an interruption of Principal risks and uncertainties research activities or the delay of new continued product launches Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as the FDA, and similar agencies in other countries.
Active ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in the manufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved by regulatory agencies.
The development, approval and manufacturing of the Companys products depend on the ability to procure ingredients reimbursement of treatments by health and for certain products has its own and packaging materials from approved care providers, private health insurers manufacturing capability.
Although the sources and for the manufacturing process andother organizations, such as health Company dual-sources certain key to be conducted at approved sites.
maintenance organizations and managed products and or active ingredients, the Changes of manufacturer or changes of care organizations is under downward Company currently relies on a single source of ingredients or packaging pressure and this, in turn, could adversely source for production of the final drug materials must generally be approved by impact the prices at which the Company product for each of ADDERALL XR, the regulatory agencies, which will involve can sell its products.
Factors affecting CINRYZE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, testing and additional inspections to theCompanys ability to obtain and INTUNIV, LIALDA, PENTASA, and ensure compliance with the applicable maintain adequate reimbursement for RESOLOR, relies on a single active regulatory agencys regulations and itsproducts include: ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, standards.
The need to qualify a new FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, manufacturer or source of ingredients or higher levels of controls on the use of the REPLAGAL, RESOLOR and VPRIV in packaging materials can take a significant Companys products and or requirements theUS, and relies on limited third party amount of time.
Should it become for additional price concessions by sources to provide the donated human necessary to change a manufacturer or managed health care organizations plasma necessary for the manufacture supplier of ingredients or packaging orgovernment authorities: ofCINRYZE.
materials, or to qualify an additional legislative proposals to reform health care supplier, the Company may not be able The Company may experience supply and government insurance programs in doso quickly, or at all, which could delay failures or delays beyond its control if it many of the Companys markets: and or disrupt the manufacturing process.
does not, or if any of its third party manufacturers do not supply the Company price controls, unsuccessful government US-based manufacturers must be on time with the required volumes, or tenders, or non-reimbursement of new registered with the DEA and similar supply products that do not meet medicines or new indications.
regulatory authorities in other countries regulatory requirements.
Any such supply ifthey handle controlled substances.
The cost of treatment for some of the failures could lead to significant delays, Certain of the Companys products, Companys products is high, particularly increase in operating costs, lost product including ADDERALL XR and VYVANSE, those which are used for the treatment sales, an interruption of research activities, contain ingredients which are controlled ofrare genetic diseases.
The Company or the delay of new product launches, all of substances subject to quotas managed may encounter difficulty in obtaining or which could have a material adverse effect bythe DEA.
As a result, the Companys maintaining satisfactory pricing and on the Companys revenues, financial procurement and production quotas reimbursement for such products.
The condition or results of operations.
maynot be sufficient to meet failure to obtain and maintain pricing and commercialdemand.
The Company has also entered into reimbursement at satisfactory levels for manyagreements with third parties for the itsproducts may adversely affect the CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL and provision of goods and services to enable Companys revenues, financial condition VPRIV are manufactured using highly it to manufacture its products.
If these orresults of operations.
The thirdparties are unable to manufacture complexity of the manufacturing results in a The Company conducts its own products, or provide these goods and number of risks, including the risk of viral or manufacturing operations for certain services, in each case in accordance other contamination.
Additionally, CINRYZE of its Rare Diseases products and is withits respective contractual obligations, is derived from human plasma, and is reliant on third party contract the Companys ability to manage its therefore subject to the risk of biological manufacturers to manufacture other manufacturing processes or to operate contamination inherent in plasma-derived products and to provide goods and itsbusiness, including to continue the products.
The sole manufacturer of services.
Some of the Companys development or commercialization of its CINRYZE has received observations on products or ingredients are only products as planned or on a commercial Form 483 and a warning letter from the available from a single approved basis, may be adversely impacted.
FDA identifying issues with respect to the source for manufacture.
Any manufacturing process for CINRYZE which The development, approval and disruption to the supply chain for any must be addressed to the satisfaction manufacturing of the Companys of the Companys products may result ofthe FDA.
Any regulatory interventions, products is subject to extensive in the Company being unable to inrelation to these, or any other issues, oversight by various regulatory continue marketing or developing a iftheyoccur, may delay or disrupt the agencies and regulatory approvals product or may result in the Company manufacture of the Companys products.
orinterventions associated with being unable to do so on a changes to manufacturing sites, commercially viable basis for some The Company has made significant ingredients or manufacturing period of time investments in a new biologics processes could lead to significant The Company sources some products manufacturing plant at its site in Lexington, delays, increase inoperating costs, from third party contract manufacturers, 26 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Massachusetts.
The Companys ability to medical devices is highly regulated and the penalties, audit findings and injunctive manufacture certain of its Rare Diseases operations of market participants, such as oradministrative remedies, distract products or constituents in this new facility the Company, are closely supervised by management to the detriment of the remains subject to the approval of the regulatory authorities and law enforcement business, result in the exclusion of facility by the FDA and other international agencies, including the US Department of certainproducts, or the Company, from agencies.
HHS, the FDA, the US Department of government reimbursement programs Justice, the SEC and the DEA.
These orsubject the Company to regulatory The failure to obtain regulatory approvals authorities and agencies and their controls or government monitoring of its promptly or at all and or regulatory equivalents in countries outside the US activities in the future.
Any such outcomes interventions associated with changes have broad authority to investigate market could have a material adverse effect on the tomanufacturing sites, ingredients or participants for potential violations of laws Companys revenue, financial condition or manufacturing processes could lead to relating to the sales, marketing and results of operations.
For further information significant delays, an increase in operating promotion of pharmaceutical products and see Note 19 to the consolidated financial costs, lost product sales, an interruption medical devices, including the False statements.
ofresearch activities, the delay of new Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and product launches or constraints on The Company faces intense the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among manufacturing output, all of which could competition for highly qualified others, for alleged improper conduct, have a material adverse effect on the personnel from other companies, including corrupt payments to government Companys revenues, financial condition academic institutions, government officials, improper payments to medical and results of operations.
The professionals, off-label marketing of Company is undergoing a corporate pharmaceutical products and medical The actions of certain customers reorganization and the consequent devices, and the submission of false claims could affect the Companys ability uncertainty could adversely impact for reimbursement by the federal tosell or market products profitably.
the Companys ability to attract and government.
Healthcare companies may Fluctuations in buying or distribution or retain the highly skilled personnel also be subject to enforcement actions or patterns by such customers can needed for the Company to meet its prosecution for such improper conduct.
adversely impact the Companys strategic objectives Any inquiries or investigations into the revenues, financial conditions or The Company relies on recruiting and operations of, or enforcement or other results of operations retaining highly skilled employees to meet regulatory action against, the Company by A considerable portion of the Companys its strategic objectives.
The Company such authorities could result in significant product sales are made to major faces intense competition for highly defense costs, fines, penalties and pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as qualified personnel and the supply of injunctive or administrative remedies, well as to large pharmacies, in both the US people with the requisite skills may be distract management to the detriment of and Europe.
In 2013, for example, 52% of limited, generally or geographically.
the business, result in the exclusion of the Companys product sales were Therange of skills required and the certain products, or the Company, from attributable to three customers in the US: geographies in which they are required government reimbursement programs or [McKesson Corp. Cardinal Health, Inc and bythe Company may also change subject the Company to regulatory AmerisourceBergen Corp].
In the event of overtime as Shires business evolves.
controls or government monitoring of its financial failure of any of these customers TheCompanys ongoing One Shire activities in the future.
The Company is there could be a material adverse effect reorganization, which aims to simplify subject to certain ongoing investigations onthe Companys revenues, financial theCompanys organizational structure, by governmental agencies.
For further condition or results of operations.
The involves changes to, and geographic information, see Note 19 to the Companys revenues, financial condition or relocation of, certain skilled roles.
If the consolidated financial statements.
results of operations may also be affected Company is unable to retain key personnel by fluctuations in customer buying or Adverse outcomes in legal matters or attract new personnel with the requisite distribution patterns.
These fluctuations and other disputes, including Shires skills and experience, it could adversely may result from seasonality, pricing, ability to enforce and defend patents affect the implementation of the Companys wholesaler inventory objectives, or other and other intellectual property rights strategic objectives and ultimately adversely factors.
A significant portion of the required for its business, could have a impact the Companys revenues, financial Companys revenues for certain products material adverse effect on the condition or results of operations.
for treatment of rare genetic diseases are Companys revenues, financial Failure to achieve the Companys concentrated within a small number of condition or results of operations strategic objectives with respect to customers.
Changes in the buying patterns During the ordinary course of its business the acquisition of ViroPharma may of those customers may have an adverse the Company may be involved in claims, adversely affect the Companys effect on the Companys revenues, disputes and litigation with third parties, financial condition and results of financial condition or results of operations.
employees, regulatory agencies, operations governmental authorities and other parties.
Investigations or enforcement action On January 24, 2014, Shire completed the The range of matters of a legal nature that by regulatory authorities or law acquisition of ViroPharma for a total cash might arise is extremely broad but could enforcement agencies relating to the consideration of approximately $4.2 billion.
include, without limitation, employment Companys activities in the highly Acquisitions of this size typically entail claims and disputes, intellectual property regulated markets in which it various risks, which, if they materialize, may claims and disputes, contract claims and operates may result in significant adversely impact the Companys revenues, disputes, product liability claims and legal costs and the payment of financial condition or results of operations.
disputes, regulatory litigation and tax substantial compensation or fines audits and disputes.
The Company engages in various These risks include but are not limited to: marketing, promotional and educational Any unfavorable outcome in such matters failure to achieve the targeted growth and activities pertaining to, as well as the sale could adversely impact the Companys expected benefits of the acquisition if of, pharmaceutical products and medical ability to develop or commercialize its sales of ViroPharma products, including devices in a number of jurisdictions around products, adversely affect the profitability CINRYZE, are lower than anticipated: the world.
The promotion, marketing and of existing products, subject the Company sale of pharmaceutical products and to significant defense costs, fines, WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 27 The introduction of new products Principal risks and uncertainties bycompetitors may impact future continued revenues The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device industries are highly competitive and are characterized by substantial investment in continuous product development and technological change.
The Companys products could, therefore, be rendered obsolete or uneconomic, through the development of new products, new methods of treatment, or technological advances in manufacturing or production by its competitors which may impact futurerevenues.
difficulties in integrating ViroPharma into global economic growth.
Accordingly Shire may lead to the combined asubstantial and lasting slowdown of The successful development of company not being able to realize the theglobal economy or major national products is highly uncertain and expected operating efficiencies, cost economies could negatively affect growth requires significant expenditures savings, revenue enhancements, in the markets in which the Company andtime synergies or other benefits in the operates.
Such a slowdown, or any Products that initially appear promising timeframe anticipated, or at all: resultant austerity measures adopted by inresearch or development may be governments in response to a slowdown, delayed or fail to reach later stages of undiscovered or unanticipated risks and could also reduce the level of development as: liabilities, including legal and compliance reimbursement that governments are related liabilities, may emerge after preclinical or clinical tests may show willing and able to provide to the Company closing the acquisition or may be higher theproduct to lack safety or efficacy: for its products and, as a result, adversely than anticipated: and affect the Companys revenues, financial delays may be caused by slow enrolment condition or results of operations.
the Company may not be able to retain in clinical studies: regulatory requirements the existing customers of ViroPharma or for clinical trial drug supplies: extended Any slowing economic environment may attract new customers.
length of time to achieve study endpoints: also lead to financial difficulties for some additional time requirements for data ofthe Companys significant customers.
Any failure to achieve the Companys analysis or dossier preparation: time Insuch situations, the Company could strategic objectives with respect to the required for discussions with regulatory experience delays in payment or nonViroPharma acquisition could result in agencies, including regulatory agency payment of amounts owed which may slower growth, higher than expected requests for additional preclinical or result in a rising level of contractual defaults costs, the recording of asset impairment clinical data: delays at regulatory by its contractual counterparties.
charges and other actions which could agencies due to staffing or resource adversely affect the Companys business, The Company does business, both directly limitations: analysis of or changes to financial condition and results of with government hospitals, clinics, study design: unexpected safety, efficacy, operations.
pharmacies and other agencies and or manufacturing issues: delays may indirectly through wholesalers and General risk factors related to the arise from shared control with distributors, with a number of Eurozone Company and to the healthcare industry collaborative partners in the planning and governments, including the governments The actions of governments, industry execution of the product development, of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and regulators and the economic scaling of the manufacturing process, Spain.
These and other countries have environments in which the Company orgetting approval for manufacturing: experienced, and may continue to operates may adversely affect its manufacturing issues, pricing or experience, declines in their ability to develop and profitably reimbursement issues, or other factors creditworthiness.
These events could market its products may render the product economically inturn result in these countries making The healthcare industry is heavily unviable: significant cuts to their public spending, regulated.
Changes to laws or regulations including national healthcare budgets, in impacting the healthcare industry, in any the proprietary rights of others and their an attempt to manage their budget deficits, country in which the Company conducts competing products and technologies or could result in a greater risk of default its business, may adversely impact the may prevent the product from being ornon-payment of outstanding payment Companys revenues, financial condition or developed or commercialized: or obligations, any of which could adversely results of operations.
For example, the product may fail to receive necessary affect the Companys revenues, financial changes to the regulations relating to the regulatory approvals.
condition or results of operations.
exclusivity periods available for the Companys products may allow for the In addition, concerns have been expressed Success in preclinical and early clinical earlier entry of generic or biosimilar for the overall stability and suitability of trials does not ensure that late stage competitor products.
theEuro as a single currency, given the clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical economic and political challenges facing results are frequently susceptible to varying A slowdown of global economic individual Eurozone countries.
Continuing interpretations that may delay, limit, or growth, orcontinued instability of deterioration in the creditworthiness of prevent regulatory approvals.
The length of theEurozone, could have negative Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one time necessary to complete clinical trials consequences for theCompanys or more member countries from the EU, and to submit an application for marketing business and increase the riskof orthe failure of the Euro as a common approval for a final decision by a regulatory non-payment by the Companys European currency could adversely affect authority varies significantly and may be customers the Companys revenues, financial difficult to predict.
If the Companys Growth of the global pharmaceutical condition or results of operations.
large-scale or late-stage clinical trials for a market has become increasingly tied to product are not successful, the Company 28 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report will not recover its substantial investments intellectual property rights, such as patents The Company has filed applications to in that product.
The Company also relies register various trademarks for use in on various trade secrets, unpatented connection with its products in various In addition, even if the products receive know-how and technological innovations countries and also, with respect to certain regulatory approval, they remain subject and contractual arrangements with third products, relies on the trademarks of third toongoing regulatory requirements, parties to maintain its competitive position.
These trademarks may not afford including, for example, obligations to The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or adequate protection or the Company or conduct additional clinical trials or other defend such intellectual property rights, for the third parties may not have the financial non-clinical testing, changes to the any reason, could allow third parties to resources to enforce their rights under product label which could impact its make competing products or impact the these trademarks which may enable marketability and prospects for Companys ability to develop, manufacture othersto use the trademarks and dilute commercial success, new or revised and market its own products on a their value.
requirements for manufacturing, written commercially viable basis, or at all, which notifications to physicians, or product In the regular course of business, the could have a material adverse effect on the recalls or withdrawals.
Company is party to litigation or other Companys revenues, financial condition or proceedings relating to intellectual property results of operations.
The failure of a strategic partner to rights.
See Note 19 to the consolidated develop and commercialize products The Company intends to enforce its patent financial statements for details of current could result in delays in development, rights vigorously and believes that its patent litigation.
approval or loss of revenue commercial partners, licensors and third If a marketed product fails to work The Company enters into strategic party manufacturers intend to enforce effectively or causes adverse side partnerships with other companies in vigorously those patent rights they have effects, this could result in damage areas such as product development, licensed to the Company.
However, the tothe Companys reputation, the manufacturing, sales and marketing.
In Companys patent rights, and patent rights withdrawal of the product and legal these partnerships, the Company is that the Company has licensed, may not action against the Company sometimes dependent on its partner to provide valid patent protection sufficiently Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable deliver results.
While these partnerships broad to prevent any third party from publicity from complaints concerning any are governed by contracts, the Company developing, using or commercializing of the Companys products, or those of its may not exercise direct control.
If a partner products that are similar or functionally competitors, could have an adverse effect fails to perform or experiences financial equivalent to the Companys products or on the Companys ability to obtain or difficulties, the Company may suffer a technologies.
These patent rights may be maintain regulatory approvals or delay in the development, a delay in the challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed successfully market its products.
approval or a reduction in sales, or or circumvented by third parties.
relating to such rights may in future also The testing, manufacturing, marketing and bechanged or withdrawn.
The failure to secure new products sales of pharmaceutical products and orcompounds for development either medical devices entails a risk of product Additionally, the Companys products, or through in-licensing, acquisition or liability claims, product recalls, litigation the technologies or processes used to internal research and development and associated adverse publicity.
The cost formulate or manufacture those products efforts, or the failure to realize of defending against such claims is may now, or in the future, infringe the expected benefits from acquisitions expensive even when the claims are not patent rights of third parties.
It is also of businesses or products, may have merited.
A successful product liability claim possible that third parties will obtain patent an adverse impact on the Companys against the Company could require the or other proprietary rights that might be future results Company to pay a substantial monetary necessary or useful for the development, The Companys future results will depend, award.
If, in the absence of adequate manufacture or sale of the Companys to a significant extent, upon its ability to insurance coverage, the Company does products.
The Company may need to develop, in-license or acquire new not have sufficient financial resources to obtain licenses for intellectual property products or compounds, or to acquire satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim rights from others and may not be able to other businesses.
The expected benefits or to fund the legal defense of such a obtain these licenses on commercially from acquired products, compounds or claim, it could become insolvent.
Product reasonable terms, if at all.
businesses may not be realized or may liability insurance coverage is expensive, require significantly greater resources The Company also relies on trade secrets difficult to obtain and may not be available andexpenditure than originally anticipated.
and other unpatented proprietary in the future on acceptable terms.
Thefailure to realize expected benefits information, which it generally seeks to Although the Company carries product from acquisitions of businesses or protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure liability insurance when available, this products including those resulting from agreements with its employees, consultants, coverage may not be adequate.
In integration into the Group, or the failure advisors and partners.
These agreements addition, it cannot be certain that todevelop, in-license or acquire new may not effectively prevent disclosure of insurance coverage for present or future products or compounds on a commercially confidential information and may not products will be available.
Moreover, an viable basis, could have a material adverse provide the Company with an adequate adverse judgment in a product liability effecton the Companys revenues, remedy in the event of unauthorized suit, even if insured or eventually financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, if the Companys overturned on appeal, could generate employees, scientific consultants or The Company may fail to obtain, substantial negative publicity about the partners develop inventions or processes maintain, enforce or defend the Companys products and business and that may be applicable to the Companys intellectual property rights required inhibit or prevent commercialization of products under development, such toconduct its business other products.
inventions and processes will not The Companys success depends upon necessarily become the Companys itsability and the ability of its partners and property, but may remain the property licensors to protect their intellectual ofthose persons or their employers.
Where possible, the Companys strategy is to register WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 29
