E C R N I S A K R U W S S O A R K T I N N E G D N G R E P O E U D P N I PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THE GROUP HAS A SERIES OF REVIEW PROCESSES IN PLACE INCLUDING PERIODIC STRATEGIC REVIEWS, BUDGET REVIEWS AND ROLLING FORECAST REVIEWS WHICH ENSURE THAT ALL KEY RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ARE IDENTIFIED AND MANAGED.
RISK IDENTIFICATION, MONITORING PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK Risk management involves the identification and evaluation BOARD of risks and is the responsibility of the Group Board.
The field of risk management is constantly evolving within SIG and e Sets strategic objectives the process was reviewed again during 2013 to ensure that e Approves risk governance structure and agrees risk appetite it remained robust and that emerging risks are identified, e Sets delegation of authority assessed and managed effectively.
The review process involved the consideration of the objectives and targets e Receives and reviews Group Risk Register of the Groups strategic business plan, the ongoing e Receives and reviews Audit Committee reports on risk governance development of a risk universe and the identification of and internal controls key strategic risks.
Risks are continually evaluated using consistent measurement criteria.
Mitigating controls are identified and opportunities for the enhancement of the Groups control environment are implemented.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Further information on our risk management procedures is included e Considers adequacy of risk management and internal in the Corporate Governance section on pages 55 and 56. control framework There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that could have e Receives and reviews reports from the Risk Working Group a material impact on SIGs long-term performance.
The risk identification, monitoring and reporting framework, together with the key risks and e Receives and reviews reports from independent assurance providers uncertainties identified as part of the Groups risk management process, are as follows: RISK WORKING GROUP INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE e Conducts continual review e Internal audit of risks and risk controls e External audit e Concludes on treatment e Quality standards audit of risks e Insurer and property BOARD OF e Reviews and reports on DIRECTORS risk surveyors risk to the Audit Committee and Board BUSINESS UNIT e Management and employees are responsible for the identification, management and reporting of local risks e Maintenance of local risk registers Our strategy Report of the e Implementation of risk mitigation plans p. 14 Audit Committee p. 60 SIG plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 E E T B T U I M S I M N E O S C S T U I N D I U T A O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr ra at te egi gic c r re ep po or rt t Directors report Accounts Understanding movements in business risk: Increase Moderate increase No change Moderate decrease Decrease PRINCIPAL RISKS RISK NATURE OF RISK CHANGE MITIGATION Market conditions The Group operates in a number e The Group continually reviews all available indicators of countries across Europe with of market activity including market data, economic the vast majority of the Groups forecasts and surveys and also has regular communication sales being made to the building, with key suppliers and customers to ensure that any construction and civil engineering change in market demand is anticipated as early as industries.
Early identification of reducing market demand driven by both private and ensures that the Group is able to act swiftly to changing Government expenditure.
The Group is exposed to changes e The Group operates in a number of different countries in the level of activity and therefore and market sectors.
This diversification provides an demand from these industries.
element of protection against reduced market activity Government policy and expenditure in any individual country or sector.
The Group Boards plans for example, Green Deal and portfolio review ensures that the Groups capital is Energy Company Obligation ECO, appropriately allocated to the geographies and markets private investor decisions, the which remain core to the Group and which have strong general economic climate and both long-term growth prospects.
business and to a lesser extent consumer confidence are all factors that can influence the level of building activity and therefore the demand for many of the Groups products.
Competitors and The Group has a mix of both direct e The majority of products that are sold by the Group margin management specialist competition and some are relatively bulky and inexpensive in relation to their overlap with more general suppliers mass and the cost of transport.
This means that the such as general builders merchants risk faced by the Group of price disruption and possible in all of its markets and countries cross-border or international trading having a detrimental of operation.
impact on prices in any particular country is relatively low.
Challenging market trading conditions e Similarly, the risk posed by internet-based trading mean that competition pressures dependent upon parcel carrier service is mitigated by remain high which in turn results the bulky nature of most of the products sold by the in continued margin pressures being Group and the fact that specialist handling and delivery faced by the Group.
services are an important feature of the service provided by the Group to many customers.
e The Group operates in a number of different countries and market sectors and has a strong trading presence in the majority of these markets.
This strong market position and balanced portfolio provides an element of protection against increased competition in any individual country or sector.
e Notwithstanding the above, the Group continues to implement initiatives designed to improve the Groups core competencies surrounding customer service, including enhanced sales support and training.
e Operating margin is considered to be a Key Performance Indicator by the Group see page 16 and 17.
In order to improve operating margin, the Group must reduce its operating costs as a percentage of sales and or improve gross margins.
The Group has a number of ongoing pricing and purchasing initiatives designed to improve gross margin.
Tight control of operating costs is a permanent feature of management practice.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Understanding movements in business risk: Increase Moderate increase No change Moderate decrease Decrease RISK NATURE OF RISK CHANGE MITIGATION Commercial relationships Failure to negotiate competitive e Gross margin improvement is a Key Performance terms of business with our suppliers Indicator of the Group see page 16.
The Group has or failure to satisfy the needs of an ongoing pricing and purchasing initiative designed our customers could harm the to improve gross margin.
e Operational management in each country and business Customer or supplier consolidation unit is tasked on an ongoing basis to maintain and and or manufacturers dealing directly develop its relationships with customers and suppliers.
In particular, the following key tasks are undertaken: Suppliers: e Long-term key supplier harmonisation and national account strategy planning.
The Group purchases its products from a number of suppliers, thereby ensuring it is not overly reliant upon any one supplier.
In addition, each business performs alternative key supplier scenario-planning should product not be available from any one individual supplier.
e Strategically important suppliers are reviewed globally to assess their financial health to ensure that any disruption to product supply is minimised.
Customers: e Long-term key customer harmonisation and national account strategy planning.
Customer behaviour and performance is continually monitored and analysed.
Government legislation SIG operates in a number of e The Group continues to add to its resources dedicated countries across Europe, each to legal and regulatory compliance in order to further with its own laws and regulations, enhance its capability to identify and manage the risk encompassing environmental, legal, of compliance failure.
The Group actively monitors health and safety, employment and relevant laws and regulations across its markets to ensure tax matters.
Changes in these laws that the effect of any changes to the legal framework and regulations could impact on are minimised.
During the course of 2013 the Group SIGs ability to conduct its business, undertook a comprehensive review of its Anti-Bribery or make such conduct of business & Anti-Fraud practices.
Improvements have been made more costly.
to existing risk frameworks and procedures.
As well as the inherent cost of e Policies, procedures and associated training schemes are compliance, there is also the in place, which are frequently reviewed with reference reputational and financial cost of being to changing legislative requirements.
penalised for non-compliance with e The Group has a number of affiliations with regulatory legislation such as the Anti-Competition bodies and trade associations.
Debt Group net debt at 31 December 2013 e The Group has a comprehensive Treasury Policy that covers amounted to 121.2m.
The Group the Groups management of treasury risk.
Further details of the has to manage the following risks Groups policies and mitigation of treasury risk can be found in relating to its net debt: the Treasury Risk Management section on pages 35 to 37.
1 future availability of funding: e During the year the Group successfully refinanced 100m of maturing private placement debt with a further 100m of 2 interest rate risk: private placement debt seven, eight and ten year maturities 3 foreign currency risk: on a bilateral basis with two institutional investors, providing further longevity to the Groups debt profile.
4 c ompliance with debt covenants: and e The Group also has in place a 250m committed revolving credit facility RCF provided by its four key relationship banks.
At 31 December 2013 this facility was undrawn and therefore represents the committed funding headroom for the Group.
The RCF matures in March 2015 and therefore it is envisaged that SIG will undertake a refinancing exercise during 2014 in order to ensure that sufficient funding headroom and liquidity is available to support the Groups medium-term strategic plans.
SIG plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 O Ove ver rv viie ew w S St tr ra at te egi gic c r re ep po or rt t Directors report Accounts Understanding movements in business risk: Increase Moderate increase No change Moderate decrease Decrease RISK NATURE OF RISK CHANGE MITIGATION Working capital credit Failure to manage working capital e Post-tax Return on Capital Employed ROCE is a management effectively may lead to a significant Key Performance Indicator of the Group see page 17 and increase in the Groups net debt, therefore working capital management remains a key priority.
thereby reducing the Groups e Cash flow targets are agreed with each business unit funding headroom and liquidity.
as part of the annual budget process.
All targets are reviewed on a monthly basis.
e The Group has well established and stringent authorisation procedures and debt collection cycles which control all capital expenditure and working capital requirements.
e The Group operates a centrally led and proactive credit management system with bespoke customer monitoring solutions, internal risk categorisations that drive credit policy perpetually reviewed and excellent major customer relationships.
IT infrastructure SIG uses a range of computer e The IT strategies in place across the Group continue to and resilience systems to provide order processing, be reviewed and developed to ensure that they remain inventory control and financial appropriate and that the business continuity frameworks management within each country.
Outages and interruptions could e The Group employs dedicated internal IT support affect SIGs ability to conduct teams, together with external support service providers day-to-day operations.
Any lengthy to monitor the IT systems.
failure or disruption to the IT system in any business unit or country e Technology, infrastructure, communications and would result in loss of sales and application systems are regularly updated.
The Group delays to cash flow.
has advanced hardware and software security in place to ensure protection of commercial and sensitive data.
A new ERP system is currently being implemented in the UK e For new IT projects, external consultants are utilised in distribution businesses.
conjunction with internal project management teams.
e The new ERP system for the UK distribution businesses has been successfully rolled out to selective branches during the course of 2013 and this will continue during 2014 and 2015.
Availability of key resources Unavailability of key resources e The Group has a series of review processes in place e. g. assets such as property, stock including periodic strategic reviews, budget reviews and personnel will impact on the and rolling forecast reviews which ensure that all ability of SIG to operate effectively key resource requirements are identified and and efficiently.
Failure to retain key individuals, e In respect of key personnel, senior management or the failure to attract and retain succession planning is performed with an annual strong management and technical review of current and future management staff in the future, could have requirements.
The Group also performs regional an adverse effect upon the talent management programmes and management Groups business.
development initiatives which are reviewed regularly by the Group Board.
e During 2014 we will be conducting an Employee Engagement survey across the entire SIG Group.
The Board is fully committed to the survey and its outcomes and will support action plans which positively impact on our performance, people, customer service and financial results and those which make SIG an employer of choice.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
