Strategic Report partnerships or farm-outs and by maintaining, at a minimum, standard industry best practice insurance.
The Board of Directors does not believe that it is practical or prudent to obtain third-party insurance to cover all adverse circumstances it may encounter as a result of its oil and gas activities.
However, the Board believes that SOCOs comprehensive property, control of well, casualty, liability and other policy cover conforms to industry best practice.
As such, it provides substantial protection against typical industry operational risks.
The Board believes it has struck an appropriate balance between exposure and coverage.
Empowerment Risk The Groups international portfolio comprises oil and gas ventures in widespread, often remote locations with government and industry partners.
Conduct of operations requires the delegation of a degree of decision making to partners, contractors and locally based personnel.
As operator in a project, SOCO can directly in uence operations and decision making.
Where SOCO is a co-venturer it seeks to maximise its in uence through active participation with management, including direct secondments and application of internal control best practice under a procedural framework.
Risk Management Report Long term shareholder value is dependent on the success of the Groups Reserves Risk activities, which are directed towards the search, evaluation and development of oil and gas resources.
Exploration for, and development As discussed in Note4 to the financial statements, the Company uses of, hydrocarbons is speculative and involves a signi cant degree of risk standard recognised evaluation techniques to estimate its proven and involving multiple factors.
Critical to ensuring the ongoing success of probable oil and gas reserves.
However, such techniques have inherent the Company in applying its three core strategic objectives of recognising uncertainties in their application.
As the Company has projects with booked opportunity, capturing potential and realising value is the identi cation, reserves in the early stages of production, development or non-conventional assessment and mitigation of the various risk factors.
fracture basement reservoirs, upward or downward revisions to reserve estimates will be made when new and relevant information becomes Consequently, SOCO has a formal process in place to identify and mitigate available.
Such revisions may impact the Groups financial position risks applicable to an upstream oil and gas business.
The Directors have and results, in particular, in relation to depreciation, depletion and ultimate responsibility for risk management with the Audit and Risk decommissioning costs and impairment.
Reserve estimates are reviewed Committee providing detailed oversight.
The Board has designated the at least twice a year and are regularly reviewed by independent consultants.
Chief Financial Of cer as the executive responsible for the Companys risk Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of management function.
He is supported in this task by the Chief Operating development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, Of cer and the Group Exploration Manager.
where applicable, and internal engineers.
There is an ongoing process to identify, monitor and mitigate risk Portfolio management through exploration, appraisal or acquisition may fail throughout the year with any new risks or changes to existing risks to yield reserves in commercial quantities suf cient to replace production.
considered at each Audit and Risk Committee meeting.
Annually, the Audit The Group continues to evaluate projects in existing and potentially new and Risk Committee undertakes a rigorous and detailed risk assessment areas of interest and will add exploration licences when the appropriate wherein the Groups risk pro le, including the mitigation measures in place opportunities arise.
to reduce risk to acceptable levels, is considered.
This risk assessment is then presented to the Directors for full Board approval.
Health, Safety, Environment and Social Risks Risk management and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed in Note4 to the financial statements.
The Groups The Group operates in an industry sector with inherent high risks associated risk management policies and procedures are further discussed in the with health, safety and the environment.
Additionally, it operates in regions Corporate Governance Report on page 51 and in the Audit and Risk where there is a greater risk of economic or social instability and where Committee Report on pages 55 and 56 where the signi cant issues local attitudes to risk differ compared with nations with more established or related to the 2013 financial statements are also reported.
Accordingly, the Group may be exposed to speci c summary of the key risks affecting SOCO and how we mitigate those risks in relation to social and environmental factors as well as health and risks to enable the Company to achieve its strategic objectives.
safety matters, including security, and attempts to mitigate such risks by actively engaging with local communities and governments, using specialist consultants and by maintaining appropriate policies and procedures.
Operational Risk Further details of how SOCO addresses these risks can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 39.
There are inherent risks in conducting exploration, drilling, and construction operations in the upstream industry.
The level of risk is potentially impacted by harsh geographical conditions and associated resource availability and Political and Regional Risk costs.
SOCO seeks to mitigate its operational risks through the application of industry best practice procedures throughout its operations.
Mitigation Many of the Groups projects are in developing countries or countries with may also be achieved by transferring risk, for example, by entering into emerging free market systems where the regulatory environment may not SOCO International plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Assessment and feedback Analysis, monitoring and feedback OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Audit and Risk Committee Board of Directors Chief Financial Chief Operating Of cer Of cer Group Exploration Manager Operations Local Managers Headquarters SOCO International plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Identi cation and mitigation: Reporting and consultation Reporting and consultation Strategic Report Risk Management Report continued SOCO HAS A POLICY OF UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS IN ALL AREAS IN WHICH WE OPERATE be as mature as in more developed countries.
There may be a high level of assessment and mitigation reporting procedure.
Bribery risks are risk in relation to compliance with and interpretation of emerging monitored throughout the year along with implementation of procedures hydrocarbon law, taxation and other regulations.
SOCO seeks to minimise to mitigate any new risks identi ed.
The Company has arrangements such risks by using in-country professional advisors and by engaging directly for whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise concerns regarding with the relevant authorities where appropriate.
improprieties in con dence, which would be addressed with appropriate follow-up action.
To facilitate such reporting the Company maintains an Some of the Groups interests are in regions identi ed as potentially more Ethics Hotline Service using an independent, con dential telephone service susceptible to business interruptions due to the consequences of possible that can be used by staff members and other stakeholders to report a unrest.
The Group assesses the risks of operating in these areas before suspected breach of SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
beginning operations and has deemed these risks commercially acceptable.
SOCO does not currently carry political risk insurance or associated business interruption insurance coverage to mitigate such risks.
However, it Reputational Risk periodically assesses the cost and bene t of both and future circumstances may lead the Group to acquire such insurance cover.
The Group operates in locations where social and environmental matters may be highly sensitive both on the ground and as perceived globally.
This SOCO has a policy of upholding human rights in all areas in which we can potentially lead to a reputational risk which may in uence various Group operate.
Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, where the Company has stakeholders.
Actions of international bodies may harm the objectives of the an interest in Block V, has a history of con ict.
The risk of human rights Company and its regional partners.
To mitigate these risks, SOCO works violations by con icting parties is heightened in areas of con ict, which may closely with all of its stakeholders including local communities, governments expose SOCO to the risk of accusation of complicity or collusion with alleged and non-governmental organisations to ensure that, during operations, any perpetrators or expose Company employees or associates to direct abuse.
disturbance is minimised and that on completion of the Groups activities Consequently, SOCO has developed processes to closely engage with the local population and environment will be left in, at least, as good a state the local communities with which we work and procedures for addressing as when SOCO first arrived.
See the Corporate Social Responsibility Report concerns.
SOCO examines the risk that it may be associated, either directly on pages 32 to 39 for further information.
or indirectly, with a party accused of violations.
Where such an exposure, actual or perceived, exists actions are taken to protect the Company and its personnel from an inappropriate association and reports any relevant Commodity Price Risk findings to the most appropriate authority.
Further, the Company may be accused of exploiting poor working conditions and reinforcing discriminatory The Group does not currently maintain any xed price, long term beliefs.
This is directly contrary to SOCOs policy of implementing marketing contracts.
Production is sold on spot or near term contracts, international labour standards and equal human rights.
See the Corporate with prices xed at the time of a transfer of custody or on the basis of Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 39 for further information.
However the Board may give consideration in certain circumstances to the appropriateness of entering into xed price, long term marketing contracts.
Although oil prices may uctuate widely, Business Conduct and Bribery Risk it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required to mitigate financial risks associated with debt nancing of its SOCO operates both in an industry sector and in certain countries where assets or to meet its commitments.
Accordingly, no price hedging the promotion of transparent procurement and investment policies is mechanisms were in place during the year.
Over time, during periods perceived as having a low priority and where customary practice may fall when the Group sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may short of the standards expected by the UK Bribery Act.
The Group seeks to engage in limited price hedging.
mitigate these risks by ensuring that it has appropriate procedures in place to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents and other associated persons are made fully aware of the Groups policies and procedures with Foreign Currency Risk regard to ethical behaviour, business conduct and transparency.
Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct and manage its business Running in parallel with the Groups general risk management process, in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US the Audit and Risk Committee has established a detailed bribery risk dollars, but smaller amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies SOCO International plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses, or to comply with Group seeks to minimise the impact that any debt nancings have on its local currency regulations.
From time to time the Company may take short balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies when term hedging positions to protect the value of any cash balances it holds in required.
The Group further mitigates liquidity risk by entering into non-US dollar currencies.
The Group seeks to minimise the impact that arrangements with industry partners thereby sharing costs and risks, and debt nancing has on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to matching currencies.
The impact of a 10% movement in foreign exchange insurable losses.
rates on the Groups net assets as at 31 December 2013 would not have been material 2012 not material and would not have been material with respect to the Groups pro t in 2013 2012 not material.
Interest Rate Risk The Group earns interest on its cash, cash equivalents and liquid Liquidity and Credit Risk investments at oating and xed rates.
The fair value of the Groups non-current financial asset see Note18 to the financial statements is also The Group carried signi cant cash balances throughout the year thereby dependent on the discount rate used.
Management assesses the Groups decreasing its exposure to liquidity risk and increasing its exposure to sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% credit risk.
To mitigate these risks and to protect the Groups financial higher or lower and all other variables held constant, the impact on the position cash balances are generally invested in short term, non-equity Groups pro t for the year ended, and its net assets at, 31 December instruments or liquidity funds, not exceeding three months forward.
On 2013 would not have been material 2012 not material.
occasion the Company may bene t from higher returns by investing surplus cash into liquid investments not exceeding six months.
Investments are generally con ned to money market or xed term deposits in major Contractual Risk financial institutions.
The Group enters into various contractual arrangements in the ordinary The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2013 course of its business.
Such contracts may rely on provisional was $333.0 million 2012 $370.8 million.
The Groups non-current information that is subject to further negotiation at a later date.
This financial asset that is subject to credit risk comprises a financial asset may give rise to uncertainty regarding such information.
In considering arising in respect of the Groups disposal of its Mongolia interest see any financial impact on the Groups financial statements, income, Note 18 to the financial statements and a receivable in respect of an expenses, assets and liabilities are recognised in accordance with accumulating abandonment fund in Vietnam.
The Groups and Companys applicable International Financial Reporting Standards and International other financial assets comprise investments, trade receivables and cash Accounting Standards.
The Group seeks to minimise credit risk by only maintaining balances with creditworthy third parties including major multinational oil companies subject to contractual terms in respect of trade Capital Risk Management receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited as the Board only selects institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will rating agencies and endeavours to spread cash balances and liquid be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to investments to multiple institutions.
The level of deposits held by different stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued The Groups cash requirements and balances are projected for the capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 26,27 Group as a whole and for each country in which operations and capital and29 to the financial statements and in the Statement of Changes expenditures are conducted.
In addition, the Group plans sustainable in Equity.
During the year the Company purchased at par value, annual distributions to shareholders with returns targeting 50% of the being $47.8 million, and cancelled its remaining convertible bonds Groups annual free cash ow.
The Group meets these requirements see Note24 to the financial statements.
through an appropriate mix of available funds, equity instruments and, when required, debt nancing.
The Groups ability to pursue its operational objectives is discussed in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 26.
The SOCO International plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
