Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk In the Strategy section on page 10, we Risk management embedded in We develop business continuity plans to provide an overview of the risks we face business processes provide for situations where specific risks and what we are doing to address them.
We strive to ensure that sound risk have the potential to severely impact our In this section we describe in further detail management is embedded within our business.
These plans are supported by our key risk management and assurance strategy, planning, budgeting and the provision of training and crisis simulation mechanisms and the principal risks and performance management processes.
uncertainties which we consider to be The Board has defined the Groups risk Key responsibilities material to our business, as they may have appetite expressing the acceptable levels Internal Audit Services IA a significant effect on our financial condition, of risk for the Group using three key IA is an independent assurance and results of operations and or reputation.
These are: i earnings and advisory function that reports, and is Specific risks and uncertainties are also cash flow: ii return on investment: and iii accountable, to the Audit Committee.
discussed in the Strategic Report from potential impact on our reputation.
This IAsbudget, resources and programme of page 2, where relevant.
definition provides a clear statement by audits are approved by the Audit Committee the Board of its position on risk which Managing risk annually and the findings from its audit enables the Group, in both quantitative As an innovation-driven, global, prescriptionwork are reported to, and discussed at, and qualitative terms, to judge the level of based biopharmaceutical business, we face each Audit Committee meeting.
A core risk it is prepared to take so as to achieve a diverse range of risks and uncertainties part of the audit work carried out by IA its overall objectives.
that may adversely affect our business.
Our includes assessing how we are managing approach to risk management is designed Annually, the Group develops a long-term risk and reviewing the effectiveness of to encourage clear decision making as to business plan to support the delivery of its selected aspects of our risk control which risks we take and how these are strategy, which the Board reviews to ensure framework, including the effectiveness managed, based on an understanding of that it conforms to its risk appetite.
Our risk of other assurance and compliance the potential strategic, commercial, financial, management approach is aligned to our functions within the business.
compliance, legal and reputational strategy and business planning processes.
Global Compliance implications of these risks.
Line managers are accountable for Our Global Compliance function has been identifying and managing risks, and for established to drive and embed a culture of We work continuously to ensure that we delivering business objectives in ethics and integrity within our organisation.
have effective risk management processes accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
in place to support the delivery of our Each area for which a SET member is Our key compliance priorities include: strategic objectives, the material needs of responsible a SET function is required focusing our efforts on important our stakeholders and our core values.
We to provide an assessment of its key risks compliance risk areas monitor our business activities and external annually.
Identified risks are mapped to communicating clear policies to and internal environments for new, emerging AstraZenecas risk taxonomy, providing employees and changing risks to ensure that these a structured disaggregation of the various improving compliance behaviours through are managed appropriately as they arise.
potential risks facing the Group.
SET effective training and support The Board believes that the processes functions are required to provide quarterly ensuring employees can raise concerns and accountabilities which are in place updates identifying changes to the key risks, and that those concerns will be properly described below provide it with adequate their mitigation plans, new or emerging addressed information on the key risks and uncertainties significant risks and any key events that may ensuring fair and objective investigations we face.
Further information about these have occurred.
The quarterly updates are of possible policy breaches risks and uncertainties is set out in the then aggregated into a Group risk report monitoring and auditing compliance with Principal risks and uncertainties section for SET and Audit Committee review.
Supporting tools are in place to assist the providing key stakeholders with managers in this process and we continue assurance and effective reporting of to work on developing our risk management material issues.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 199 Additional Information | Risk These priorities are closely aligned to the Our compliance organisation is comprised Principal risks and uncertainties Groups strategy and reflect our drive to of the Global Compliance function together Operating in the pharmaceutical sector strengthen our efforts for oversight at all with a wide range of specialist compliance carries a number of inherent risks and levels of our business, including risk functions.
Further information about Global uncertainties that may affect our business.
management relating to external parties and Compliance and the Code of Conduct can In the remainder of this section we describe anti-bribery anti-corruption.
IA and Global be found in the Corporate Governance the principal risks and uncertainties which Compliance work closely with one another Report from page 88. we consider to be material to our business and both separately provide assurance in that they may have a significant effect on Management reporting and assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
Through our financial condition, results of operations We provide quarterly risk reports to the the Group Compliance Council, Global and or reputation.
Among other things, Compliance and IA work with a range these summarise our current assessment These risks are not listed in any particular of specialist compliance functions of the principal risks facing the Group, order of priority.
Other risks, unknown throughout our organisation to co-ordinate including environmental, social and or not currently considered material, could compliance activities.
governance risks, senior management have a similar effect.
We believe that the When a potential compliance breach is accountability and our expected plans forward-looking statements about identified, an internal investigation is in order to address these risks, to the AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified undertaken by appropriate staff from our extent possible.
by words such as anticipates, believes, Global Compliance, HR and or Legal teams.
expects and intends, and that include, The Audit Committee comprises five When appropriate, external advisers are among other things, the statements made Non-Executive Directors.
It reviews and engaged to conduct and or advise on in the Chairmans Statement Outlook reports to the Board following each investigations.
Should an investigation on page 7, and Our strategic priorities Audit Committee meeting on the overall conclude that an actual breach has Financial expectations on page 17, are framework of risk management and internal occurred, management, in consultation based on reasonable assumptions.
controls, and is responsible for promptly with our Legal function, will consider However, forward-looking statements bringing to the Boards attention any whether the Group needs to make a involve inherent risks and uncertainties such significant concerns about the conduct, disclosure and or to report the findings as those summarised below.
They relate to results or outcomes of internal audits and to a regulatory or governmental authority.
events that may occur in the future, that may other compliance matters.
The Audit be influenced by factors beyond our control Committee receives regular reports from More information on IA and our overall risk and that may have actual outcomes our external auditor and the following management and control framework can be materially different from our expectations.
business functions: found in the Corporate Governance Report from page 88.
IA: independent assurance reports Management of risk on the Groups risk management and Day-to-day risk management is delegated control framework from the Board to the CEO and through the Global Compliance: reports on key SET to line managers.
SET functions are compliance risks, updates on key accountable for establishing an appropriate compliance initiatives, and summaries line management-led process and for of audits conducted by compliance providing the resources for supporting functions, compliance incidents and effective risk management.
investigations including contact made by employees with AZethics via our helplines Line and project managers have primary Financial Control and Compliance responsibility, within the context of their Group: reports on Sarbanes-Oxley Act functional area, for identifying and managing compliance and the financial control risk as well as for putting in place framework appropriate controls and procedures to Management: the Group-level risk monitor effectiveness.
summary from the annual business Oversight and monitoring planning process and reports on the The SET is responsible for overseeing performance management and and monitoring the effectiveness of the risk monitoring processes.
management processes implemented by For further information on the Audit management.
The Global Compliance Committee, see the Audit Committee and Finance functions, together with IA, Report from page 98. support the SET by advising on policy and standard setting, monitoring and auditing, communication and training, as well as reporting on the adequacy of line management processes as they apply to managing our risk.
200 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Product pipeline risks Failure to meet development targets Impact The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to complex, risky and lengthy process involving significant financial, reduce development timelines effectively, or produce new R&D and other resources, which may fail at any stage of the products that achieve commercial success, could adversely process due to a number of factors.
These include: failure to affect the reputation of our R&D capabilities, and is likely to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for the materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
product candidate or its manufacturing facilities: unfavourable clinical efficacy data: safety concerns: failure of R&D to develop new product candidates: failure to demonstrate adequate cost-effective benefits to reimbursement authorities: and the emergence of competing products.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more significantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products.
This is due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and their supply chain.
Difficulties of obtaining and maintaining Impact regulatory approvals for new products The predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation remains challenging due to evolving regulatory science, processes for our pharmaceutical products, including their competing regulatory priorities and downward pressure on development, manufacture, distribution and marketing.
efficacy and quality must be established before a drug can be marketed for a given indication.
The criteria for establishing Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could impact patient safety, efficacy and quality may vary by country or region and and market access.
In addition, the increase in post-approval the submission of an application to regulatory authorities may or activities requires increased resources and could impact the may not lead to the grant of marketing approval.
Regulators can labelling and approval status of currently marketed products.
refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
Approved products are also subject to regulations, and a failure to comply can potentially result in losing regulatory approval to market our products.
Factors including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, and changes in benefit risk tolerance by health authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups influence the initial approvability of new drugs.
Existing marketed products are also subject to these same forces, and new data and meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling.
Recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation.
Failure to obtain and enforce effective Impact IP protection Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use of in relation to our products is an important element of our ability compulsory licensing in certain countries in which we operate to protect our investment in R&D and create long-term value could have a material adverse effect on the pricing and sales of for the business.
A number of the countries in which we operate our products and, consequently, could materially adversely affect are still developing their IP laws or may even be limiting the our revenues from those products.
More information about applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions.
Adverse protecting our IP is contained in the Intellectual Property section political perspectives on the desirability of strong IP protection on page 72.
Information about the risk of patent litigation and the for pharmaceuticals in certain emerging and even developed early loss of IP rights is contained in the Expiry or loss of, or markets may limit the scope for us to obtain effective IP limitations on, IP rights risk on page 204. protection for our products.
As a result, certain countries may seek to limit or deny effective IP protection for pharmaceuticals.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 201 Additional Information | Risk Product pipeline risks continued Delay to new product launches Impact Our continued success depends on the development and Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products successful launch of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition launch dates of major new products have a significant impact on and or results of operations.
For example, for the launch of a number of areas of our business, including investment in large products that are seasonal in nature, delays in regulatory clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch product stocks, approvals or manufacturing difficulties may delay launch to the investment in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training next season which, in turn, may significantly reduce the return and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams from new on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
These launch dates are primarily driven by the In addition, a delay in the launch may lead to increased costs if, development programmes that we run and the demands of the for example, marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled regulatory authorities in the approvals process, as well as pricing or protracted for longer than expected.
Delays to anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
Strategic alliances and acquisitions may Impact be unsuccessful We seek technology licensing arrangements and strategic If we fail to complete these types of collaborative projects in a collaborations to expand our product portfolio and geographical timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, this may limit presence as part of our business strategy.
our ability to access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology and shared expertise.
Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, enabling us to grow and strengthen the business.
The Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our success of such arrangements is largely dependent on the collaborators or partners may arise, often due to conflicting technology and other IP we acquire rights to, and the resources, priorities or conflicts of interest between parties, which may efforts and skills of our partners.
Also, under many of our erode or eliminate the benefits of these alliances.
strategic alliances, we make milestone payments well in advance The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities as a result of of the commercialisation of the products, with no assurance integration of an acquired business could cause deterioration that we will recoup these payments.
in our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other interest expense.
pharmaceutical companies in respect of licensing arrangements, Further, if, following an acquisition, liabilities are uncovered in the strategic collaborations, and acquisition targets, and therefore, acquired business, the Group may suffer losses and may not we may be unsuccessful in implementing some of our have remedies against the seller or third parties.
process may also result in business disruption, diversion of We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses management resources, the loss of key employees and other as part of our business strategy.
The integration of an acquired issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
202 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Commercialisation and business execution risks Challenges to achieving commercial success of Impact new products The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch sales growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we stocks and other items.
The commercial success of our new may be unable to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching it, medicines is of particular importance to us in order to replace which could materially adversely affect our business or results lost sales following patent expiry.
We may ultimately be unable of operations.
to achieve commercial success for any number of reasons.
Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for These include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities biologics, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics of the product candidate for development or commercialisation could materially adversely impact our revenues from the sales in a timely manner, the impact of price control measures of products, such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
imposed by governments and healthcare authorities, the outcome of negotiations with third party payers, erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties and failure to show a differentiated product profile.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, technical aspects of the product and rapidly changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
Illegal trade in our products Impact Illegal trade covers the theft, illegal diversion and counterfeiting of Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical our products.
Illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is estimated products as a result of counterfeiting could materially adversely to exceed $75 billion per year and is generally considered by the affect our reputation and financial performance.
In addition, industry, non-governmental organisations and governmental undue or misplaced concern about the issue may induce some authorities to be increasing.
We suffer a commensurate financial patients to stop taking their medicines, with consequential risks exposure to illegal trade and there is also a risk to public health.
There is also a direct financial loss where Regulators and the public expect us to secure the integrity of our counterfeit medicines replace sales of genuine products and supply chain and to co-operate actively in the reduction of illegal where genuine products are recalled following discovery of trade in AstraZeneca products, through surveillance, investigation counterfeit, stolen and or illegally traded products in an effort and legal action against others engaged in illegal trade.
to regain control of the integrity of the supply chain.
Developing our business in Emerging Markets Impact The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a Emerging Markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, critical factor in determining our future ability to sustain or business or results of operations.
increase our global product revenues.
This poses various challenges including: more volatile economic conditions: competition from multinational and local companies with existing market presence: the need to identify correctly and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing: poor IP protection: inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud : the need to impose developed market compliance standards: the need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical and manufacturing requirements: inadvertent breaches of local and international law: not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel: identification of the most effective sales channels and route to market: and interventions by national governments or regulators restricting access to market and or introducing adverse price controls.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 203 Additional Information | Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Expiry or loss of, or limitations on, IP rights Impact Pharmaceutical products are only protected from being copied Products under patent protection or within the period of during the limited period of protection under patent rights and or Regulatory Data Protection typically generate significantly higher related IP rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or orphan revenues than those not protected by such rights.
Expiry or loss of these rights typically leads to the financial condition and results of operations may be materially immediate launch of generic copies of the product in the country adversely affected upon expiry or early loss of our IP rights, due where the rights have expired or been lost.
See the Patent to generic entrants into the market for the applicable product.
Expiries section on page 198, which contains a table of certain Additionally, the loss of patent rights covering major products of patent expiry dates for our key marketed products.
other pharmaceutical companies may materially adversely affect the growth of our still-patented products in the same product Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator class in that market.
companies products may also lead to increased competition for our own, still-patented, products in the same product class due to the availability of generic products in that product class.
Further, there may be increased pricing pressure on our still-patented products as a result of the lower prices of generic entrants.
Pressures resulting from generic competition Impact Our products compete not only with other products approved If challenges to our patents by generic drug manufacturers for the same condition, marketed by research-based succeed and generic products are launched, or generic pharmaceutical companies, but also with generic drugs products are launched at risk on the expectation that marketed by generic pharmaceutical manufacturers.
These challenges to our IP will be successful, this may materially competitors may invest more of their resources into the adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
marketing of their products than we do, depending on the In 2013, US sales for Nexium, Crestor and Seroquel XR relative priority of these competitor products within their were $2,123 million 2012: $2,272 million, $2,912 million companys portfolio.
Generic versions of products are often sold 2012: $3,164 million, and $743 million 2012: $811 million, at lower prices than branded products, as the manufacturer respectively.
Furthermore, if limitations on the availability, does not have to recoup the significant cost of R&D investment scope or enforceability of patent protection are implemented and market development.
The majority of our patented products, in jurisdictions in which we operate, generic manufacturers including Nexium, Crestor and Seroquel XR, are subject to price in these countries may be increasingly able to introduce pressures as a result of competition from generic copies of these competing products to the market earlier than they would products and from generic forms of other drugs in the same have been able to, had more robust patent or Regulatory Data product class for example, generic forms of Losec Prilosec Protection been available.
and Lipitor, and generic forms of Seroquel IR.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges in the US from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents for Nexium and Pulmicort, two of our key products.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
204 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Effects of patent litigation in respect Impact of IP rights Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market or challenged in IP litigation initiated against or by external one or more of our major products, particularly in the US where parties.
Such IP rights may also be the subject of validity we achieve our highest revenue, our revenue and margins could challenges in patent offices.
We expect our most valuable be materially adversely affected.
If we are ultimately unsuccessful products to receive the greatest number of challenges.
Despite in patent litigation, we may incur liabilities to third parties for our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection for damages incurred after enforcing our IP rights.
our products, we may not succeed in protecting our patents Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called from such litigation or other challenges.
freedom to operate can be costly.
We may be subject to Where we assert our IP rights and allege infringement, we bear injunctions against our products or processes and be liable the risk that courts may decide that third parties do not infringe for damages or royalties.
We may need to obtain costly licences.
This may result in AstraZeneca losing exclusivity These risks may be greater in relation to biologics and vaccines, and or erosion of revenues.
Non-infringement defences are where patent infringement claims may relate to discovery typically filed by third parties in response to patent infringement or research tools, and manufacturing methods and or biological lawsuits including in so-called 505 b 2 cases in the US.
While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, of 505 b 2 actions can be found in Note 25 to the Financial acquiring licences, foregoing certain activities or uses, or Statements from page 176. modifying processes to avoid infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, such steps can entail Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, significant cost and there is no guarantee that they will third parties may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they be successful.
have been inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
Infringement accusations may implicate, for example, our manufacturing processes, product intermediates or use of research tools.
Details of significant infringement claims against us by third parties enforcing IP rights can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176.
Price controls and reductions Impact Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that various cost control or reimbursement mechanisms in respect of we will be able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular pharmaceutical products.
country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product investment.
These pressures, including For example, in the US, realised prices are being depressed the increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies to which we through restrictive reimbursement policies and cost control tools are subject, as well as the continued potential of new legislation such as restricted lists and formularies, which employ generic expanding the scope of permitted commercial importation of first strategies and or require physicians to obtain prior approval medicines into the US, could materially adversely affect our for the use of a branded medicine where a generic alternative business or results of operations.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to limit the use of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers We expect that these pressures on pricing will continue, and to reduce net prices.
In addition, payers are shifting a greater may increase.
proportion of the cost of branded medicines to the patient via out-of-pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, principally, to encourage patients to use generic medicines.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how price pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in the Pricing pressure section from page 15 and these economic pressures are also further discussed overleaf in the following risk factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 205 Additional Information | Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Economic, regulatory and political pressures Impact We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures It is not possible to accurately estimate the financial impact to limit or reduce the cost of our products.
of the potential consequences resulting from the Affordable Care Act or related legislative changes when taken together with the In 2010, the US passed the Affordable Care Act, a number of other market-related and industry-related factors that comprehensive health reform package with provisions taking can also result in similar impacts.
While the overall reduction effect between 2010 and 2018.
The law expands insurance in our profit before tax for the year, due to higher minimum coverage, implements delivery system reforms and places a Medicaid rebates on prescription drugs, discounts on branded renewed focus on cost and quality.
In terms of specific provisions pharmaceutical sales to Medicare Part D beneficiaries and an impacting our industry, the law mandates higher rebates and industry-wide excise fee was $933 million, this reflects only the discounts on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid limited number of known, quantifiable and isolatable effects patients as well as an industry-wide excise fee.
Implementation of these legislative developments.
Other potential indirect or of several health system delivery reforms included in the law has associated consequences of these legislative developments, commenced and will continue until 2018. which continue to evolve and which cannot be estimated, could The Affordable Care Act expands the patient population eligible have similar impacts.
These include broader changes in access for Medicaid and will provide new insurance coverage for to, or eligibility for, coverage under Medicare, Medicaid or similar individuals through state-operated and federal-operated health governmental programmes.
The pharmaceutical industry These continued disparities in pricing systems could lead to could be adversely impacted by such shifts if the health marked price differentials between markets, which, by way of the insurance exchanges do not offer a prescription drug benefit that implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, is as robust as benefits historically provided by large employers.
increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The We anticipate further government intervention in the US in importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where connection with the recent initiative to contain federal spending.
prices are low due to government price controls, or other market For more information see the Regulatory requirements and dynamics, to countries where prices for those products are Pricing pressure sections from page 14 and page 15, higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
discussed in the Pricing pressure section on page 15, eurozone In the EU, efforts by the European Commission to reduce crisis countries such as Greece and Portugal have introduced inconsistencies and to improve standards in the disparate particularly tough measures to lower healthcare spending, national pricing and reimbursement systems have met with including mandatory discounts, clawbacks and price referencing little immediate success as Member States guard their right rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our business to make healthcare budget decisions.
The industry continues or results of operations.
to be exposed in Europe to a range of ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
This pressure is likely to continue for several years as the Member States try to re-balance their sovereign debt levels.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product, at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical, as well as cost-effectiveness, of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to drive increased efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
Further information regarding these pressures is contained in the Regulatory requirements and Pricing pressure sections from page 14 and page 15, respectively.
206 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars Impact While no application for a biosimilar has been made in relation The extent to which biosimilars would be differentiated from to an AstraZeneca biologic, various regulatory authorities are patented biologics on price is unclear.
However, due to their implementing or considering abbreviated approval processes complex nature, it is uncertain whether biosimilars would have for biosimilars that would compete with patented biologics.
the same impact on patented biologics that generic products have had on patented small molecule products.
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act within the Affordable Care Act, In addition, it is uncertain when any such abbreviated approval which contains general directives for biosimilar applications.
The processes may be fully realised, particularly for more complex FDA issued draft guidance in February 2012 on implementing an protein molecules such as MAbs.
Any such processes may abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway.
However, significant materially and adversely affect the future commercial prospects questions remain, including standards for designation of for patented biologics, such as the ones that we produce.
interchangeability and data collection requirements to support extrapolation of indications.
In 2012, the FDA also implemented user fee programmes to support biosimilar product review and policy development.
In Europe, the EMA published final guidelines on similar biological medicinal products containing MAbs and in May 2012, the first MAb biosimilar application was made with recommendation for approval made by the EMA.
Notably, a number of jurisdictions have adopted either the EMA guidelines or those set forth by the WHO to enable biosimilars to enter the market after discrete periods of data exclusivity.
Increasing implementation and enforcement of Impact more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and We devote significant resources to the considerable challenge enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
of compliance with this legislation, including in emerging and developing markets, at considerable cost.
Investigations from For example, in the UK, the Bribery Act 2010 came into force in governmental agencies require additional resources.
It has extensive extra-territorial application, implements taking significant measures to prevent breaches of applicable significant changes to existing UK anti-bribery legislation and anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and broadens the scope of statutory offences and the potential associated third parties, breaches may result in the imposition applicable penalties, including organisational liability for any bribe of significant penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply paid by persons or entities associated with an organisation where with monitoring or self-reporting obligations, or debarment the organisation failed to have adequate preventative procedures or exclusion from government sales or reimbursement in place at the time of the offence.
In the US, there has been programmes, any of which could materially adversely affect significant enforcement activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt our reputation, business or results of operations.
Practices Act by the SEC and DOJ against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in a variety of roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Details of these matters are included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 207 Additional Information | Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Any expected gains from productivity initiatives Impact are uncertain We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and If inappropriately managed, the expected value of these restructuring programmes with the aim of enhancing the initiatives could be lost through low employee engagement long-term efficiency of the business.
However, anticipated cost and hence productivity, increased absence and attrition levels, savings and other benefits from these programmes are based and industrial action.
on estimates and the actual savings may vary significantly.
In Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost particular, these cost reduction measures are often based on reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion current conditions and cannot always take into account any of employee relations processes including consultation, future changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, engagement, talent management, recruitment and retention, including new business developments, wage or price increases.
or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel Impact and failure to successfully engage with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, in with a diverse range of skills and capabilities to meet our particular those in key scientific and leadership positions and in strategic objectives.
For example, the success of our science our talent pools, may weaken our succession plans for critical activities is particularly dependent on our ability to attract and positions in the medium term, may materially adversely affect the retain sufficient numbers of high quality researchers and implementation of our strategic objectives and could ultimately development specialists.
We face intense competition for well impact our business or results of operations.
qualified individuals, as the supply of people with specific skills Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to and significant leadership potential or in specific geographic business disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels regions may be limited.
of productivity and or increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of Our ability to achieve high levels of employee engagement which could ultimately adversely impact our business or results in the workforce, and hence benefit from strong commitment of operations.
and motivation, is key to the successful delivery of our While we are committed to working on improving drivers of business objectives.
engagement, such as increasing our employees understanding of our new strategy and our ongoing efforts to reduce organisational complexity, our efforts may be unsuccessful.
Failure of information technology and Impact cybercrime We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including support key business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, breaches of data centre security or cybersecurity, or failure to supply chain and sales capabilities, and are an important means integrate new and existing IT systems, could harm our reputation of safeguarding and communicating data, including critical or and materially adversely affect our financial condition or results sensitive information, the confidentiality and integrity of which we of operations.
The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and of our third party vendors including outsource providers with IT, we may be unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our whom we contract, has significantly increased over the past systems that could adversely affect our business.
decade and makes such systems potentially vulnerable to Significant changes in the business footprint and the service interruptions and security breaches from attacks by implementation of the new IT strategy including the setting malicious third parties, or from intentional or inadvertent actions up of captive offshore Global Technology Centres could lead by our employees or vendors.
to temporary loss of capability while the changes are being implemented.
The inability to effectively back-up and restore data could lead to permanent loss of data that could result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, hacktivists and others.
From time to time we experience malicious intrusions and computer viruses.
208 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Failure of outsourcing Impact We have outsourced a number of business critical operations A failure to successfully manage and implement the integration to third party providers.
This includes certain R&D processes, of IT infrastructure services provided by our outsourcing IT systems, HR and finance and accounting services.
providers could create disruption, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the required level of quality, and failure of outsource providers to co-operate with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, such failures could adversely impact our ability to meet business targets, maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders, and result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Supply chain and delivery risks Manufacturing biologics Impact Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex Slight variations in any part of the manufacturing process and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle or components may lead to a product that does not meet living micro-organisms and facilities specifically designed and its stringent design specifications.
Failure to meet these validated for this purpose, with sophisticated quality assurance specifications may lead to recalls, spoilage, drug product and control procedures.
shortages, regulatory action and or reputational harm.
Final market release of a biologic depends on a number of in-process manufacturing and supply chain parameters to ensure the product conforms with its safety, identity and strength requirements and meets its quality and purity characteristics.
Biologics production facilities, especially for drug substance manufacture, are very specialised and can take years to develop and bring on line as licensed facilities.
Predicting demand for certain classes of biologics, especially prior to launch, can be challenging.
Difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, Impact distribution and sale of our products We may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing our Manufacturing, distribution and sales difficulties may result products, such as: i supply chain continuity, including as a result in product shortages and significant delays, which may lead of disruptions such as a natural or man-made disaster at one of to lost sales.
our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor: ii delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products: iii the seizure or recall of products or shutdown of manufacturing plants: and iv other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 209 Additional Information | Risk Supply chain and delivery risks continued Reliance on third parties for goods Impact We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of Third party supply failure could materially adversely affect our goods, such as raw materials for example, the API in some of financial condition or results of operations.
This may lead to our medicines, equipment, formulated drugs and packaging, significant delays and or difficulties in obtaining goods and all of which are key to our operations.
services on commercially acceptable terms.
Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could Loss of access to sufficient sources of key goods and biological result in the failure of the supply of goods.
For example, suppliers materials may interrupt or prevent our research activities as of key goods we rely on may cease to trade.
In addition, we may planned and or increase our costs.
Further information is experience limited supply of biological materials, such as cells, contained in the Managing risk section on page 44. animal products or by-products.
Furthermore, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions could result in restricted access to, use or transport of such materials.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Adverse outcome of litigation and or Impact governmental investigations We may be subject to legal proceedings and governmental Investigations for example, the DOJ investigative demand investigations.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently in relation to the Brilinta PLATO trial, described in further detail unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176 or legal can result from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert may claim compensatory, punitive and statutory damages management attention, or damage our reputation and demand in extremely high amounts.
In particular, the marketing, for our products.
Unfavourable resolution of current and similar promotional, clinical and pricing practices of pharmaceutical future proceedings against us could subject us to criminal manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject remedies, require us to make significant provisions in our to extensive regulation, litigation and governmental investigation.
accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been subject to adversely affect our business or results of operations.
claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
Substantial product liability claims Impact Pharmaceutical companies have, historically, been subject to large Substantial product liability claims that result in court decisions product liability damages claims, settlements and awards for against us or in the settlement of proceedings could materially injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products.
Adverse adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing particularly where such circumstances are not covered by products may increase the risk of product liability claims.
For more information, see the Limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 213.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules Impact andregulations Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations Failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control may result in civil and or criminal legal proceedings being filed and regulation, could materially adversely affect our business against us, or in us becoming subject to regulatory sanctions.
For example, once a product has been Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers approved for marketing by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to deal with any failure to comply with continuing regulatory to continuing control and regulation, such as the manner of its oversight and this could affect us, whether such failure is our manufacture, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
For own or that of our contractors or external partners.
example, if regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and so negatively impact patient access, and reputation.
210 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Failure to adhere to laws, rules and regulations Impact relating to anti-competitive behaviour Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating Where a government authority investigates our adherence to to anti-competitive behaviour may expose us to regulatory competition laws, or we become subject to private party lawsuits sanctions or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, for example, the US Nexium settlement anti-trust litigation non-governmental entities.
described in more detail in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176, this may result in inspections of our sites or Certain of our commercial arrangements with generics requests for documents and other information.
Competition companies, which have sought to settle patent challenges on investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert terms acceptable to both innovator and generics manufacturer, management attention or damage our reputation.
may be subject to challenge by competition authorities.
Unfavourable resolution of such challenges, investigations or legal proceedings against us could require us to make changes to our commercial practice and could subject us to fines and penalties and other sanctions.
These could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Environmental and occupational health and Impact safety liabilities We have environmental and or occupational health and While we carefully manage these liabilities, if a significant safety-related liabilities at some currently and formerly owned, compliance issue, environmental, occupational health or safety leased and third party sites, the most significant of which are incident or legal requirement for which we are responsible were detailed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176. to arise, this could result in us being responsible for compensation, fines and or remediation costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions underlying the provisions, including our assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety-related claims.
Misuse of social media platforms and Impact new technology We increasingly use the internet, social media, mobile applications Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to misuse and other forms of new technology to communicate internally including public disclosure of sensitive information such as and externally.
The accessibility and instantaneous nature of personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare interactions with such media may facilitate or exacerbate the risk professionals or patients, for example, those enrolled in our of data leakages from within AstraZeneca or false or misleading clinical trials, which may damage our reputation and expose statements being made about AstraZeneca, which may be us to legal risks, as well as additional legal obligations.
Similarly, damaging to our reputation.
As social media platforms expand, it the involuntary public disclosure of commercially sensitive becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry information such as trade secrets through external media and to put structures in place to secure and protect information.
channels, or an information loss, could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments on social media websites about us or, for example, the safety of any of our products, could harm our reputation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 211 Additional Information | Risk Economic and financial risks Adverse impact of a sustained economic Impact downturn A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies economic downturn.
Additional pressure from governments and to manage this risk see the Financial risk management policies other healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales section on pages 82 and 83, we cannot be certain that these will in response to recessionary pressures on budgets may cause be as effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the a slowdown or a decline in growth in some markets.
In some event of a global liquidity crisis.
In addition, open positions where cases, those governments most severely impacted by the we are owed money and investments we have made in financial economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle their institution money market funds cannot be guaranteed to be debts through, for example, the issuance of government bonds recoverable.
Additionally, if we need access to external sources which might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
of financing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the debt or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available In addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a in losses from writing off debts.
We are highly dependent on severe and or sustained economic downturn.
This may, for being able to access a sustainable flow of liquid funds due to instance, be the case in the event of any default by the Group the high fixed costs of operating our business and the long and on its debt obligations, which may materially adversely affect uncertain development cycles of our products.
In a sustained our ability to secure debt funding in the future or our financial economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal condition in general.
Further information on debt funding may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that we will arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management be able to access monies owed to us without a protracted, policies section on page 83. expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
More than 95% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested in AAA credit rated institutional money market funds backed by institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a mix of US and EU sovereign default risk and financial institution default risk.
Political and socio-economic conditions Impact We operate in over 100 countries across the world, some of Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, which may be subject to political and social instability.
There may and situations and or resulting events, depending on their be disruption to our business if there is instability in a particular severity, could adversely affect our supply and or distribution geographic region, including as a result of war, terrorism, riot, chain in the affected countries and the ability of customers or unstable governments, civil insurrection or social unrest.
ultimate payers to purchase our medicines.
This could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates Impact Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly currencies into US dollars may materially adversely affect our affect our results of operations, which are reported in US dollars.
financial condition or results of operations.
Additionally, some Approximately 39% of our global 2013 sales were in the US, of our subsidiaries import and export goods and services in which is expected to remain our largest single market for the currencies other than their own functional currency, and so foreseeable future.
Sales in other countries are predominantly in the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected by currencies other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We have a growing the settlement dates for these transactions.
In addition, there are exposure to emerging market currencies, where some have foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of equity exchange controls in place, but for others the exchange rates are investments in subsidiaries.
See Note 23 to the Financial also linked to the US dollar.
Major components of our cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of Statements from page 169. approximately 23% of our employees are based.
212 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Limited third party insurance coverage Impact In recent years, the costs associated with product liability If we are found to have a financial liability as a result of product litigation have increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage liability or other litigation, in respect of which we do not have afforded by, pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance cover, or if an insurers denial of coverage is ultimately insurance.
To contain insurance costs in recent years, we have upheld, this could materially adversely affect our business or continued to adjust our coverage profile, accepting a greater results of operations.
The Group has not held any For more information, see the Substantial product liability claims material product liability insurance since February 2006.
In risk on page 210. addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor and Nexium in the US are not covered by third party product liability insurance.
See Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 176 for details.
Taxation Impact The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be of profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease taxed in individual countries.
The majority of the jurisdictions in in related tax costs, and has the potential to affect our cash flows which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign and EPS.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, jurisdictions, which provide a framework for mitigating the are costly, divert management attention and may adversely affect incidence of double taxation on our revenues and capital gains.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Group is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 83 for tax risk management policies and Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 183 for details of current tax disputes.
Pensions Impact Our pension obligations are backed by assets invested across Sustained falls in these asset values will put a strain on pension the broad investment market.
Our most significant obligations fund solvency levels, which may result in requirements for relate to the UK pension fund.
additional cash, restricting cash available for strategic business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities increase as a result of a sustained low interest rate environment, this will reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 18 to the Financial Statements from page 159 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
Financial expectations Impact We may from time to time communicate targets or expectations There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or regarding our future financial or other performance for example, expectations will materialise.
Actual results may deviate materially the expectations described in Our strategic priorities Financial and adversely from any such target or expectation, including expectations from page 17.
All such statements are of a if one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any forward-looking nature and are based on assumptions and such target or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or judgements we make, all of which are subject to inherent risks in part.
and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of and or that are beyond our control.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 213
