18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties We recognise that managing risk effectively forms a key part of our day-to-day operations and is also a requirement for achieving our strategic objectives.
The Group has a well-established process which delivers visibility Overall ownership for each risk, together with responsibility for all and accountability for risk management across our businesses.
associated mitigating actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
Thisprocess forms part of the Groups overall internal control framework as described on page 46.
The resulting risk registers are then subject to review on an on-going basis as part of regular operational reviews.
This regular review of the Our approach to risk management incorporates both bottom-up status of risks and corresponding mitigating actions ensures that risk and top-down elements to the identification, evaluation and management is embedded in day-to-day management processes management of risks and all risks are evaluated with reference and decision-making as well as in the annual strategic planning cycle.
to the Groups achievement of its strategic objectives as outlined on pages 14 and 15.
In addition, the Executive Directors consider those risks to the Groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the Our business units are required to undertake formal risk business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing management reviews at least twice per year.
This involves the use of and mitigating these.
The effectiveness of the Groups overall a consistent framework for the assessment of significant risks with risk management and mitigation processes is reviewed regularly respect to impact, likelihood and the time frame in which the risk by the Executive Directors and twice yearly by the Audit and could materialise.
Risks are assessed both before and after the effect RiskCommittee.
of controls and mitigating actions has been taken into account.
The key potential risks and uncertainties facing the Groups ability Our business units are also required to evaluate the status of a to deliver its strategy, together with mitigating actions, are number of higher-impact risks.
This ensures consideration is given describedbelow.
These are consistent with those reported in 2012. to risks which may not necessarily be preoccupations when viewed from a day-to-day, operational perspective, but which may be capable of having a significant impact on operations were they tomaterialise.
Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact and mitigation New product development Potential impact 1.
In order to strengthen our market positions Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Strengthening and sustain competitive advantage, the Group Loss of market share.
market positions makes significant investments in research Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
The development of new through innovation technologies and products involves risk including: The product being more expensive or taking Mitigation longer to develop than originally planned.
Significant investment levels in research and The product failing to reach the development, maintained at around 7% of commercialisation phase.
The market for the product being smaller than Project management disciplines are applied in originally envisaged.
Work closely with customers to ensure that we develop solutions tailored to their specific needs.
New product developments are based on standard platforms, customised through high added-value applications engineering.
Extensive customer involvement during product development and prior to product launch through beta evaluations.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact and mitigation Intellectual property Potential impact 1.
Our business is focused on the design and Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Strengthening manufacture of technologically advanced Loss of market share.
market positions products and applications.
Significant investment Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
in research and development is made towards through innovation this end.
As a consequence, weown and protect Mitigation continued patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright Procedures in place requiring all of our information and intellectual property licences.
businesses to: maintain a watching brief on new The risk therefore exists that our intellectual third-party patent applications: property may be infringed by third parties or that undertake specific freedom-to-operate we may inadvertently infringe third-partyrights.
technical reviews prior to commencing new product development, acquisitions or licences: register intellectual property where appropriate.
Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets such that no single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a material risk to the on-going success of theCompany.
Political and economic risks Potential impact 2.
We operate in a range of end-user markets Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Increasing regional around the world and may be affected by political, expansion with a focus economic or regulatory developments in any Mitigation of these countries.
Material adverse changes in Maintain a broad spread of markets, products on emerging markets the political and economic environments in the and customers to limit risks associated with any countries in which we operate have the potential given territory.
to put at risk our ability to execute our strategy.
Ensure we remain structured in such a way that enables us to take prompt action in the event of any material change in the trading environment.
Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and financial position.
Laws and regulations Potential impact Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow.
We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, as a consequence, we are subject to numerous Reputational damage.
Diversion of management resources to address domestic and international regulations and restrictions.
These include laws and regulations any resulting investigation.
covering product safety, export controls, antibribery, fair competition and false accounting.
Mitigation Strong internal control framework, policies and Any failure by the Group or its representatives culture.
to comply with relevant laws and regulations Formal export controls compliance procedures could result in civil or criminal liabilities, leading to in place, including strict product classification significant fines and penalties or the disqualification and transaction screening protocols.
of the Group from participation in governmentEthics training provided to all employees.
related contracts for a period of time.
In the event of Regular monitoring of compliance.
a failure to comply with export control regulations, the Group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability to trade.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact and mitigation Acquisitions Potential impact 3.
A key element of our strategy is to grow the Failure to achieve the benefits outlined in the Growing existing business portfolio through acquisition of standbusiness case.
businesses through alone or bolt-on businesses which complement or Reduced profitability and cash flow.
extend the range of products and applications we Unforeseen liabilities.
Integration of the operations and personnel of Mitigation an acquired business can be a complex process.
Rigorous financial and legal assessment of Potential risks therefore exist that the planned target businesses.
benefits from the acquisition may not be achieved Strict authority levels which, subject to as a result of problems encountered during size, involve review by the Board for such integration of the acquired business, incorrect transactions.
assumptions made in the business case, changing Comprehensive representations and warranties market conditions, or issues which were not in purchase agreements.
identified during the due diligence process.
Extensive integration planning and execution.
Further, the Company could be exposed to past Regular review against the business case for the acts or omissions of the acquired business.
The nature of the marketplaces in which we Loss of market share.
Building our presence operate means that all of our businesses are Reduced profitability and cash flow.
exposed to risk from competitor activity.
in key strategic Mitigation growth areas, both Maintain market-leading positions through organically and significant investment in research and through acquisition development.
Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall risk from any single competitor.
Maintain ability to react quickly to changes in customer and market demand.
Maintain a watching brief on new competitor activity.
Supply chain dependencies and disruption Potential impact 5.
The Company is exposed to the risk that some Inability to fulfil customer orders resulting in lost Focusing on of the components it sources, particularly for sales and reputational damage.
operational custom-built items or ageing products, are provided by a single supplier and are therefore Loss of market share.
excellence vulnerable to interruption of supply.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact and mitigation The Company also manufactures components Mitigation 5. using proprietary technologies at a number Strategic sourcing teams source lower-cost Focusing on of locations.
Our ability to supply products to components across a range of markets.
operational our customers could be adversely impacted by Alternative sources of supply actively sought a disaster or other disruptive event at any of to reduce dependency upon single-source excellence thesesites.
continued Safety stock levels established for critical Any interruption to the Companys supplies or any components.
related increase in costs may result in an adverse Business continuity plans and disaster effect on the business financial position and prevention measures in place for all material future performance.
Fluctuations in exchange rates Potential impact Because of the global nature of our business, we Unexpected variations in the Companys have operations which sell and purchase goods in results.
foreign currencies and whose results we record in Reduced profitability and cash flow.
We are therefore exposed to any significant changes in exchange Mitigation rates between a variety of currencies.
Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast exposures up to 18 months ahead.
Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and purchasing currencies where practical.
Foreign currency investments hedged with borrowings in the same currency wherever possible.
Regular monitoring, including sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of exchange rate movements on the Groups reporting.
Information security Potential impact As with most organisations of a similar size and Loss of competitively sensitive data.
complexity, our businesses face both internal and Being subject to a malicious attack causing external information security risks.
system failure, data corruption or loss, or theft of commercial or sensitive data.
Mitigation Our businesses employ a number of physical, logical and control measures designed to reduce the risk of a breach in information security arising.
Our systems are monitored against unauthorised access.
A programme of continuous improvement evaluates whether the Groups existing controls in this area would benefit from additional strengthening.
Relevant employees receive on-line and face-to-face awareness training.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
