26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our risks Principal risks A summary of the principal risks, their likely impact and an explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk is set out in the table below.
The direction of change in particular risks during the year is explained in the Principal Risk column and illustrated by the arrow in the Change column.
Please note that the Change column shows the change in the risk and not the mitigation of the risk.
We have also setoutthe relevance of the risk to our strategy.
Principal risk Change Impact Mitigation Relevance to strategy Economic and political instability: Fluctuations in profit Compliance with Group Treasury Policy Broaden our from significant global presence The Group operates worldwide.
Strong internal controls with internal audit and currency movements Economic and political instability appropriate insurance creates risks for our locally based Reduced profit due to Resilient business model see pages 1221 direct operations.
The Group impact on customers has reviewed country, credit, with economic Senior managers in the EMEA division undertook liquidity and currency risks and, problems aEurozone Scenario Planning Workshop, externally in particular, those arising from facilitated by PA Consulting Group, which considered Potential European debt issues.
the impact of countries leaving the Eurozone.
The redenomination objective was to improve the Groups preparedness of local currency, in respect of this risk.
The toolkit developed is to be devaluation and high deployed by other operating companies inflation The operations in Argentina were profitable despite a general devaluation in Argentina.
This is mainly due to the move of the business to the US dollar.
Significant exchange Exchange rate Regional manufacturing strategy to spread Strengthen our rate movements: movements impact manufacturing across a number of currency areas, global market landed costs, and and consideration of exchange rate exposures in the position The Group reports its results therefore gross profits, manufacturing strategy and pays dividends in sterling.
Generate depending upon the Operating companies, including Forward cover where appropriate and in line with the consistent organic country of origin.
manufacturing, trade in Treasury Policy.
However, this has only a relatively growth Non-sterling receipts local currency.
short-term effect up to two years after which the are translated underlying currency cost base and exchange rates into sterling on apply consolidation Focus on reducing manufacturing costs including sourcing materials, where appropriate, from cheaper areas such as China and India.
Loss of manufacturing output at Reduced sales and Group manufacturing strategy to regionalise Operate any Group factory: profit due to inability to manufacturing base and increase resilience sustainably meet customer orders In relation to the steam business, Business continuity planning and disaster Strengthen our the Group manufactures most Loss of market share recoveryplans global market of the products we sell in eight position Damage to reputation Stocks of components and finished products in main factory units which supply salescompanies our sales operations worldwide.
Regular and comprehensive back-ups of IT systems Loss of manufacturing output at any important plant risks serious Use of insurance audits inspections and business disruption to sales operations.
InWatson-Marlow Pumps Group, pump and tubing manufacturing are separated.
Breach of regulatory requirements: Fines and regulatory Significant improvements to our compliance Operate action and resultant programme including i participation by over 2,800 sustainably The Group operates in a large reduced profit employees in anti-bribery training anti-bribery@ number of countries across the Strengthen our work, ii issue of Sanctions, Embargoes and world and is subject to many Damage to reputation global market Restrictions Policy and Guide, and iii the intended different laws and regulations, position Diversion of roll-out ofaBehavioural Based Safety programme including the UK Bribery Act, management time the US Foreign and Corrupt Robust internal controls, policies and procedures Practices Act, health and safety, andGroup Management Code competition laws and local quality Established strong ethical culture supported by regulations.
Breaching these communication and training laws and regulations could have Review of commercial arrangements and regulatory serious consequences.
requirements with appropriate professional advice Maintain local quality accreditations.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Following the reprioritisation of the principal risks in 2013 by the Risk Management Committee, we have added one new principal risk Significant exchange rate movements and removed one principal risk shown in our 2012 Annual Report and Accounts Risk of productfailure.
The way in which the Risk Management Committee reviews and controls our risk management processes and procedures is set out intheRisk Management Committee report on pages 70 to 72.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could become material in the future.
These risks maycause the Groups results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Principal risk Change Impact Mitigation Relevance to strategy Non-compliance with health, safety Damage to reputation Compliance with legislation and codes of best Operate and environmental legislation: practice sustainably Reduced profit due to The Group places great emphasis fines, compensation Regular audits, checks and reporting to management Strengthen our on health, safety and environmental and clean-up costs and the Board on health, safety and environmental global market issues in relation to our employees issues position Enforcement action and operations, and those of by regulatory On-going training Broaden our global our customers, suppliers and authorities presence communities so as to avoid the Appointment of a Group Health, Safety and risk of major health, safety or Environment executive and improvement in health environmental problems.
and safety awareness across the Group.
Defined benefit pension deficit: Increase in liabilities Use of independent professional advisers and Operate custodians for defined benefit pension schemes sustainably Defined benefit pension schemes Increase in pension carry risks in relation to investment costs and cash Pension scheme fide-risking strategy to automatically performance, security of assets, contributions reduce equity exposure and increase matching longevity and inflation.
Total defined assets at pre-agreed trigger points Fluctuations in benefit pension liabilities represent pension fund asset Use of Mercer Dynamic fide-Risking Solution.
approximately 52% of total Group and liability values assets This risk has reduced further in the year as a result of the operation of the Mercer Dynamic fide-Risking Solution.
Failure to respond to technological Failure to achieve Maintain market knowledge and monitor competitor Operate developments or customer needs: expected return on developments, making effective use of our direct field sustainably the R&D investment sales force The Group has significantly Generate increased R&D resources and Reduced profit Maintain investment in R&D programmes in order consistent organic risks this being ineffective if we to satisfy customers technical requirements growth Loss of market share fail to respond to development Maintain appropriate intellectual property Deliver solutions and customer needs or if we Loss of intellectual registrations, taking enforcement action where to reduce energy fail to manage and protect our property appropriate usage intellectual property.
Regular updating of technical and product improvement roadmaps.
Failure to realise Failure to achieve Evaluation of potential targets against Strategic Plan Grow market share acquisition objectives: expected return on and acquisition criteria Deliver solutions investment The Groups strategy is focused Project management disciplines to reduce energy on organic growth complemented Assumption of usage Appropriate due diligence by Group personnel by acquisitions.
We risk failing unexpected liabilities and external advisers covering commercial, legal, to achieve the expected return accounting, environmental, market and technical on investment if acquisitions are issues not properly identified, executed The Group has expanded its acquisitions team to and integrated.
strengthen its due diligence process.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
