SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are Like all businesses, Spirent is exposed to a number currently faced by the Spirent Group are discussed below together of risks and uncertainties.
with the actions which have been developed to mitigate the effects.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business These risks may arise from internal factors, but and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot some will be a result of external factors over which provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur or adversely the Group has little or no direct control.
It is the affect the operating or financial performance of the Group.
effective management of these risks that supports The Board has classified the principal risks by the impact the risk Spirent in delivering on its strategic objectives, would be expected to have on the Group should it occur, and the safeguards the Groups assets and, over time, will anticipated likelihood that the risk may occur using the following classifications: also enhance shareholder value.
The processes to identify and manage the principal risks and Impact High Medium Low uncertainties of the Spirent Group are an integral Likelihood of occurrence Likely Possible Unlikely component of the internal control system and are Likelihood of occurrence is based on qualitative factors such as past described below.
experience and current market conditions.
Impact is based on the estimated degree of change in financial KPIs.
The Boards view of the change in likelihood of occurrence and or in the impact on the Pages 54 to 57 for Audit Committee for further information on Group combined of each risk compared to the prior year has also Spirents internal control systems.
Pages 48 to 52 for Directors been provided.
statement on corporate governance Identifying, evaluating and managing risk The Board The Board has overall responsibility for internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Audit Committee Group Risk Review Committee Individual business risk committees The Audit Committee reviews and monitors the The risk registers from the businesses are The risk assessment process starts in the Groups risk process and reports to the Board reviewed regularly by the Group Risk Review businesses where up-to-date risk registers are on its effectiveness.
Risk is considered by the Committee.
The purpose of the Committee maintained as an integral part of the normal Audit Committee at least three times per year, at is to identify which risks are critical to the operating and control procedures.
Each which time risk registers for both the Group and Spirent Group and also to highlight corporate business identifies its key risks and nominates the individual businesses are reviewed by the wide risks that may not have been otherwise a risk owner.
The impact and the likelihood of Committee.
The Audit Committee challenge and considered.
The Committee, which comprises occurrence of each risk is ranked, which assists debate the risks with reference to risk tolerance the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial the Group Risk Review Committee in assessing and appetite, as set by the Board.
Progress made Officer, the Executive Vice President EVP the importance of each risk to the Spirent Group and any further actions to be taken regarding Networks, Applications & Infrastructure, the as a whole.
Once risks have been assessed mitigation plans, as well as any changes to the EVP Wireless & Service Experience and the an appropriate risk mitigation response is risk profile, are discussed in detail.
Vice President Group Finance, challenge and determined for each risk identified.
The individual debate the individual business risks and meet businesses are required to update their risk with each business periodically to discuss the registers as new or emerging risks are identified.
The Committee will assess each risk and rank each according to the estimated impact on the Group and the likelihood of occurrence.
They are also responsible for developing and ensuring that appropriate risk mitigation processes are in place for each risk.
This Committee is responsible for preparing the Corporate Risk Register to present to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
Pages 54 to 57 for Audit Committee 20 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operational Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Macro-economic and industry sector Deterioration in economic or sector conditions may High Likely Spirent is a global business exposed to the current lead to a reduction in the level of demand for Spirents world economic conditions, over which it has no products and services and cause customers to delay control.
The business is also exposed to government their purchasing decisions.
spending priorities, principally in the United States.
We are particularly exposed to conditions in the During 2013 disruption and structural changes were telecommunications sector into which we sell many of experienced in our markets which have impacted our products and services and which has experienced Spirents performance.
significant downturns in the past.
Mitigation actions The Group closely monitors both market and geographic trends in order to respond to changes in demand and be in a position to take timely actions to protect profitability where possible.
In addition, Spirent has a broad product portfolio of innovative test solutions and a large number of geographically diverse customers which may mitigate the impact.
Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Competition Actions by competitors and increased competition can Medium All Spirents businesses operate in highly competitive bring about pressure on Spirents gross margin.
These Possible markets which experience rapid technological factors will also affect Spirents competitive position, changes.
The Group faces competition from new thereby reducing revenue and consequently affecting market start-ups as well as the more established and the financial results.
Mitigation actions Industry consolidation amongst our direct competitors may bring about a shift in competitive advantages.
In 2013 we saw intense competition in some of our markets and lost some market share.
The Groups broad solution portfolio, market leading capabilities and customer focus continue to address this risk.
Spirent aims to maintain market leading positions through significant investment in product development which is being stepped up in 2014.
Competitor activity is closely monitored with a view to maintaining clear differentiation based on Spirents products, services and global reach.
The Boards view of how the likelihood of occurrence and or impact has changed compared to the prior year.
21 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Customer dependence Loss of one or more of Spirents major customers could Medium New The Group sells its solutions and services to a wide have a substantial impact on Spirents financial results.
Possible Risk range of companies and seeks to continually expand its customer base.
In 2013 no one customer accounted Significant failings in either quality or being able to for 10 per cent or more of Group revenue although the deliver in the appropriate timescale could cause long top ten customers represented 38 per cent of Group lasting damage to Spirents reputation and relationships.
In some of our markets certain customers have a dominant market share, which makes doing Customer consolidation could result in delays in business with these customers critical to the success spending thereby reducing demand for Spirents of our business.
solutions and services and also reduce the potential number of customers to whom those solutions and In addition, many of the companies with which services could be sold.
we do business are some of the largest global telecommunications corporations and therefore Mitigation actions meeting our development obligations, producing Spirents strong customer relationships are critical high quality products, and in an appropriate time as is providing innovative solutions which meet scale, are vital to Spirents reputation and success.
customers needs and Spirents emphasis on providing professional service and support.
Many customers The industry continues to experience consolidation which can disrupt the spending patterns of those have worked with the Group for a number of years.
One of the Groups strategic objectives is to deepen our customer relationships.
We place engineers on-site with our customers, undertake site surveys of the use and intended plans for the use of test solutions in their business.
We seek to establish thought leadership in our industry through participation in standards bodies and industry forums, which in turn creates additional links with customers.
Our strategy is to play a key part in the ecosystem of supply in our served markets by aligning with early adopters of technology and with chip developers.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operational Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Business continuity risks A significant natural disaster could disrupt the High Operational risks are present in the Groups Groups ability to conduct business and impact Possible businesses.
These risks include the risk of failed adversely revenue and operating results.
internal and external processes and systems, human error and external events, such as a natural Disruption or financial problems of contract disaster.
For example, a significant portion of our manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturing communications operations are located in California capacity at contract manufacturers could either limit which has in the past experienced natural disasters, supply or increase cost.
Mitigation actions Contract manufacturers are used for the manufacture An important component of Spirents corporate of a substantial amount of Spirents products.
The governance is its integrated risk management strategy major contract manufacturer is located in Thailand.
and its regular self-assessment of risks encompassing all business units.
IT disaster recovery plans are in place for all core business systems and ensure that the wider operations are all fully covered.
In addition, the Groups largest manufacturing subcontractor has worldwide multiple sites and comprehensive business continuity plans.
Regular meetings are held with contract manufacturers and a regular on-site presence is maintained.
To minimise the effect on supply that could be caused by disruption at contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in place to transfer manufacturing to other locations.
Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Intellectual property Such claims can result in significant defence costs, and Low Spirents success is dependent in part on proprietary may affect Spirents ability to market its products.
Possible technology which may be infringed by others inadvertently or otherwise.
Protecting the Groups Mitigation actions proprietary technology is important in enabling Spirent to compete successfully.
Spirent has active intellectual property protection programmes in place to obtain appropriate intellectual Companies in the telecommunications industry often property protection in a cost effective manner.
aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights and may assert infringement claims There are procedures in the development of new products that include consideration of intellectual against Spirent.
property rights of third parties.
The Group also consults internal and external legal counsel experienced in intellectual property matters.
23 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Expand the markets we serve Failure to identify, and execute on, these new market Medium New An important component of the Groups strategy is opportunities will limit Spirents capability to achieve Possible Risk to leverage Spirents competencies and capabilities its strategy, grow its revenue and maintain its into new and expanding markets and new vertical market share.
Mitigation actions Organisational changes have been made in 2013 to better align the businesses internally so that Spirent can more effectively identify those areas which offer the most significant growth opportunities.
In addition, in order to further facilitate knowledge of new market areas outside our served market, individual managers are designated responsibility for investigation, review and to develop action plans arising from such initiatives.
Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Establish and maintain technology leadership If product development investment does not keep pace High Likely Spirent sells complex solutions in industries that are with the speed of change in technology, or if it is not characterised by rapid technological changes.
Keeping directed at the right key areas, our competitive at the forefront of these key future technologies is position and financial performance will suffer.
critical to our success and to ensure that we remain competitive in our markets.
If Spirents solutions take longer to develop than anticipated or longer to develop than our competitors It is critical that our product development investment then our competitive position and financial is directed at the right areas to enable Spirent to performance will also suffer.
develop those solutions that our customers need in a timely manner.
Mitigation actions Under investment in previous years is one of the factors that caused revenue to fall in 2013.
This is being addressed by increasing our investment in product development in order to underpin our organic growth initiates and by reorganising the structure of the business, to sharpen our focus on anticipating our customers requirements for the future.
We also intend to grow our recognition as experts in test and measurement through our increased engagement with industry standards bodies and our close alignment with our customers.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Invest in our people Intense competition is faced for personnel from other Medium Spirent is its employees.
So attracting and retaining companies and organisations and the loss of key Possible highly qualified and skilled employees is essential in employees, the failure to attract and retain other highly enabling the Group to deliver on its strategy and to the skilled employees, or the failure to adequately plan success of the business.
for succession may impair Spirents ability to run and expand the business effectively.
Mitigation actions Investing in people is at the core of the Groups strategy.
The aim is to find, keep and engage the highest calibre of employees and encourage their contribution and development.
An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to Spirents success as is ensuring incentive plans are competitive.
Succession planning for senior posts in the Company is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Pages 36 to 37 for further information on Our employees Impact Risk Potential impact Likelihood Change Acquire new capabilities and technologies Integration of acquisitions can be a complex process Medium A key element of Spirents strategy is to acquire and the results expected from acquisitions may not be Possible new capabilities and technologies, and this may be achieved due to problems encountered in integration, through acquisition.
changes in market conditions or sometimes deficiencies arising in the due diligence processes.
Mitigation actions Rigorous strategic and financial evaluations of all acquisition opportunities are carried out.
Detailed financial and commercial due diligence are performed.
The Board will only authorise transactions after all due diligence has been successfully completed and where the financial hurdles are within the agreed guidelines.
Integration plans and processes are carefully considered prior to acquisition.
The Board regularly reviews post-acquisition performance.
T Th he B e Bo oa ar rd d s v s vi ie ew o w of h f ho ow t w th he e l li ik ke el li ih ho oo od d o of f o oc ccur curr re enc nce e a and nd o or r imp impa ac ct t h ha as s c ch ha an ng ge ed d c co omp mpar are ed d t to o t th he p e pr ri io or y r ye ea ar r.. 25
