Governance Risk management Risk management is first and foremost an integral part of how managers run their All business involves activities every day.
Therefore SSE focuses on looking at each business area individually and putting in place a framework that works risk: as such risk effectively for that area.
SSE recognises that this is an ongoing process as it needs to react to changes in the business environment by management is constantly revisiting its internal processes.
This report includes a summary of the developments in SSEs approach to risk regarded as essential management during 2012 13.
The need for good risk governance is in everything SSE does.
critical to ensure the overall business model and operation is effective in practice.
Risk management in SSE is The Board of SSE acknowledges its clear responsibility characterised by: the clarity of its financial goal: its strategy and business model for risk management.
SSE understands that any which help to limit the value at risk: the sustainable and successful business requires clear culture and limited appetite for risk: and its work on risk identification, evaluation and effective risk management in all aspects of and cost effective management.
Limited appetite for risk SSEs Teamwork value, combined with other factors such as the clear financial goal of sustained real growth in the dividend, means SSE has adopted a limited appetite for, and tolerance of, risk.
The appetite varies between businesses.
This means that SSEs approach in respect of 1.  businesses, which Identify risks in themselves are lower risk, is more risk Know the key risks and averse than is the case in other marketmaintain a register of them.
In these areas, such as electricity generation, SSE might consider 2. taking on additional risk where the risk is 5.
Assess impact very well understood and can be mitigated Monitor and and likelihood cost effectively where potential returns review ofrisks are clearly attractive.
Review and report keep Look to understand and define risk registers refreshed and the key drivers and impacts updated.
Some examples of the way in which of the risks in relation to SSE risk tolerance.
appetite tolerance for risk are limited include: energy portfolio management levels of exposure are strictly monitored through 4. risk models and clear trading and 3.
Record, reporting limits: Evaluate risks prioritise, major project construction the and controls communicate, Company has in place a detailed Understand the key controls takeaction relied on to manage key governance and risk process for Ensure risks and issues risks.
Know and monitor the all its large capital projects: identified are addressed measures that indicate the acquisitions the Company has a and improvements are controls are working.
selective and disciplined approach to acquisitions, and sets demanding hurdle rates for expected returns: funding in treasury and funding matters, there is a clear and prudent approach to liquidity levels, and a mix of maturities and currencies: and 74 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
Governance 4. insurance where available on of energy networks, as was exemplified Board.
The risk owner is responsible for acceptable terms, insurance policies have on Arran and Kintyre in March 2013, ensuring that key controls for the risk been placed maintaining an appropriate and management of this risk is factored are in place and operating effectively.
Additionally, in to the operational planning of these As stated above, the corporate the Insurance department actively seeks networks: and arrogance or hubris risk definition was to identify new or emerging risks where SSE believes that the most effective adapted to include a specific reference insurance mitigation may be available.
way to manage risks to its reputation to the Companys long-term reputation.
is to manage effectively its principal The credit management risk was Risk identification, evaluation, Group risks.
Corporate reputation is replaced with energy affordability, and monitoring very important for a long-term business in recognition of the fact economic, Risks are identified, evaluated and such as SSE, but seeking to manage social and energy market and policy monitored by the relevant business units reputation rather than the substance conditions could make it difficult for within SSE, with an overview provided of the issues, which determine a households and businesses to pay the by the Group Audit department for the companys reputation, could lead to cost of electricity and gas, which could Audit Committee meetings.
Key strategic short-term behaviours or actions which have significant implications for SSE.
risks are identified and evaluated by have negative long-term implications.
The Group Audit department facilitated senior management on a regular basis.
For this reason, SSE does not specify a review of the existing risk management In addition, the Board reviews all aspects reputation as a risk to be managed.
The output from this review of risk management and internal control Nevertheless, the need to have regard led to the business risk and internal twice a year, in March and September.
to the Companys long-term reputation control procedures and guidelines is now explicitly recognised in the being updated to reflect best practice.
At its meeting in March 2013, the Board definition of the corporate arrogance Risk presentations were given at held a specific review of the developments or hubris principal risk.
leadership conferences within the within the Company during the year to Company to communicate the ensure best practice risk management is During the year, the Group Audit department need for, and required approach in place: and it reviewed the management carried out over 60 separate audits of to, risk management in SSE.
sponsoring and reporting arrangements functions, activities and issues managed All business unit risk registers have been to ensure proper controls are in place.
by SSE, providing senior management with standardised to ensure that evaluation The Board also undertook a review of the a robust internal control assurance.
Each of risk is consistent across SSE and Companys principal risks and agreed the audit report included agreed management aligned with the top 20 principal risks.
list set out in pages 77 to 79. actions to improve the overall management Risk awareness training was given to of risk.
Group Audit reviews complement the all Management Board members and There are three additional risks that are not work done by business-specific compliance their first line of reports.
listed among the principal risks but which functions in areas such as Safety, Energy Cyber information security risk was could potentially affect a large number of Portfolio Management, Energy Efficiency, addressed with a significant investment areas of activity: geopolitical developments: Energy Supply, IT and Customer Service.
programme getting under way after the weather: and reputation: being approved in 2012.
The effectiveness of the businessBusiness continuity planning exercises Geopolitical developments could specific compliance functions, and the were carried out.
have an impact on a number of SSEs arrangements around them, is kept under activities, such as energy portfolio review.
In line with that, the compliance In April and May 2013, the Management management or the construction of function relating to Energy Supply has Board and the Board gave extensive large capital projects through supply undergone, and continues to undergo, consideration to the penalty notice issued chain impacts.
In view of this, SSEs reform in the light of the breaches by SSE to SSE by Ofgem for breaches of licence balanced and diverse business model, of the new Energy Supply licence conditions conditions in its Energy Supply business.
which is designed amongst other things introduced in 2009 that were highlighted They concluded that the breaches arose to avoid dependence on any single by Ofgem in April 2013. from a combination of factors, including technology or fuel, is a key means weaknesses in the operational model, of seeking to ensure the impact of Review of SSE risk management during under-estimation of changes in the developments over which SSE can the year external environment and insufficiently have no control is, in practice, limited: As part of the SSE approach to risk robust arrangements to ensure The weather could have an impact on the management, the Company continues compliance.
The Management Board and production and consumption of energy to review and strengthen its risk and the Board concluded that the steps taken in the Electricity Generation and Energy internal control processes.
Examples since 2011 to address these issues had Supply businesses.
The extent of this risk of this approach during 2012 13 are: been appropriate and agreed additional is contained by the diversity within SSEs steps to strengthen further the operations generation portfolio, the further diversity All the top 20 risks were reviewed in of the Energy Supply business.
within its renewable energy portfolio, detail by the Management Board, and at and the balance between its generation the Board meeting in March 2013.
Each Internal control and supply activities.
The weather could principal risk has an assigned risk owner Risk management depends on a strong also have an impact on the operation who is a member of the Management system of internal control, which is 75 Governance Risk management continued fundamental to achieving SSEs strategic recruitment of additional specialist skills reviews the financial reporting process objectives.
The Board is responsible for where necessary, are all designed to ensure and performance through: annual the overall system of internal control and that the risks associated with operations operating and capital expenditure risk management, and it either directly, or are fully understood and actively managed.
budgets: monthly reviews against through its committees, sets performance Reporting within the Company is structured actual results: analysis of variances: targets and policies for the management of so that key issues are escalated through and evaluation of key performance key risks facing SSE.
The system of internal the management team, ultimately to the indicators: control is designed to manage, rather than Board if appropriate.
receives regular reports from the eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business Chief Executive, the Finance Director objectives and can provide only reasonable The key elements of SSEs internal control and the Management Board: and and not absolute assurance against and financial reporting processes are undertakes an annual evaluation material misstatement or loss.
The internal summarised below: of the Board, its Committees and control assurance process below provides individual Directors.
an overview of the key committees and The Board: related assurance activities currently approves the policies, procedures and The Management Board: in place within the Group.
framework for the maintenance of a monitors operational and financial sound and effective system of internal performance of SSE: All employees are expected to adhere to control ensuring: develops and implements: SSE strategy: the Companys signature risk practices in the provision of quality internal operational plans: policies: procedures: addition to the SSE SET of values Safety, reporting to the Audit Committee and budgets: Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and other Board Committees by assesses and controls all key strategic and Teamwork which are embedded in management and Group Audit: SSE risks: the culture.
The signature risk practices the provision of quality reporting monitors competitive forces in each adopted within SSE are outlined as: by the external Auditors to the area of operation: Audit Committee: receives and reviews reports from Consistently assess risks using the compliance with the Turnbull its committees, namely: the Risk established evaluation criteria: Guidance on Internal Control: and and Trading Committee: the Safety, Apply a standard approach to risk compliance with statutory and Health, and Environment Committee: control sheets: regulatory obligations: the Major Projects Standards and Rigorously evaluate risks on a regular reviews the significant key risks identified Delivery Committee: the Disclosure basis using detailed review: and by each business unit as well as the and Governance Committee: and the Ensure submissions for key decisions mitigating action against those risks Business Development Committee: and include a risk assessment.
following review by the Audit Committee: receives and reviews regular determines the nature and extent of presentations and reports from Their consistent application is central to all the significant risks it is willing to take all the main Group businesses.
The Teamwork value, the in achieving its strategic objectives: emphasis on peoples knowledge rather approves and regularly reviews and Role of committees than status, and the maintenance of a very updates SSEs strategy and business The role of the Audit Committee, and the experienced team, complemented by the development: Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee in the Groups system of internal control and risk management is set out in the individual committee reports.
Internal control assurance process The Risk and Trading Committee reports to the Management Board.
The specific Board of Directors remit of the Committee is to support the Companys risk management responsibilities by reviewing the strategic, market, credit, operational and liquidity risks and exposures arising from SSEs Safety, Health and Environment Audit Committee Management Board energy portfolio management, generation Advisory Committee SHEAC and treasury operations.
The Group Audit department: Major Projects works with the business units to develop Business Disclosure and Safety, Health Standards Risk and Trading Group Audit Development Governance and Environment and Delivery Committee and improve risk-management tools and Committee Committee Committee Committee processes in their business operations: ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed and Business units that the key risks are reported to the Audit Committee and Board: 76 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
SSE SET of values to manage risk SAFETY SERVICE EFFICIENCY We believe all accidents are We give our customers service we are We keep things simple, do the work preventable, so we do everything proud of and make commitments that that adds value and avoid wasting safely and responsibly or not at all.
money, materials, energy or time.
SUSTAINABILITY TEAMWORK EXCELLENCE Our decisions and actions are ethical, We support and value our colleagues We strive to get better, smarter and responsible and balanced, helping to achieve and enjoy working together as a team more innovative and be the best in environmental, social and economic wellbeing in an open and honest way.
for current and future generations.
ensures that the business units carry provides risk training to senior Annual Report.
The Board believes out regular reviews on their internal management.
that appropriate action has been taken controls relating to the key risks: to address significant failings in SSEs monitors the effectiveness of SSEs The Boards review of internal control past domestic energy sales activities system of internal control through While the Board retains overall see page 75.
The Board confirms that no audit reviews, exercises and reports responsibility, reviewing the system other significant failings or weaknesses and, where appropriate, action plans to of internal control and monitoring its have been identified in the Companys senior managers, Directors, the Audit effectiveness is primarily dealt with by the management and internal control system.
Committee and external Auditors: Audit Committee, and its output is reviewed monitors adherence to SSEs key policies at least annually by the Board.
The Board The internal control procedures described and principles: and the Audit Committee have reviewed in this section have not been extended provides the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of the Companys risk to cover its interests in joint ventures.
Board with objective assurance on management and internal control system The Group has Board representation SSEs control environment: in accordance with the Code for the period on its joint venture companies where undertakes specialist risk based from 1 April 2012 to 21 May 2013 being the separate systems of internal control assurance exercises as required: and last practical day prior to the printing of this have been adopted.
Principal risks and their management Risk definition Key controls overview Developments during the year Safety management Unsafe working practices, equipment and Safety is the first of SSEs core values.
The Safety, Awareness of safety, health and environment risk inadequate training may lead to accidents Health and Environment Committee of the across SSE has been enhanced.
A behavioural or incidents involving employees, contractors, Management Board is responsible for ensuring safety programme is being embedded companymembers of the public or plant and equipment.
SSEs Safety, Health and Environment policy is wide and leading performance indicators are adhered to.
increasingly used to target improvements.
The Companys focus areas are behavioural safety, contractor safety, and high hazard risks.
Regulatory change An adverse change to the current regulatory An experienced Regulation Department manages During 2012 13, the GB energy regulator Ofgem framework in all parts of SSE could have a SSEs relationships and interface with Ofgem, made decisions on the Retail Market Review and significant effect on its business.
Ofwat, Ofcom and other regulators.
SSE assesses price controls for transmission and gas distribution and anticipates regulatory issues in its decisionnetworks.
Following active participation in the making and operations.
regulatory process, SSE has begun implementing these changes.
Legislative change Risks to SSE from unfavourable legislative SSE has Policy and Public Affairs specialists based The UK government is legislating for a major developments at EU level and in the in Brussels, London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and process of electricity market reform in GB, jurisdictions in which it operates.
Dublin who engage openly and constructively with significant details of which have yet to be legislators, officials and other policy-makers on all confirmed.
This means there is significant aspects of energy and related environment policy.
uncertainty about the future shape of the electricity market in GB.
Uncertainty also arises from the fact that a referendum on whether Scotland should become an independent country will take place in September 2014: a Yes vote would extend that uncertainty until the details of Scotlands post-independence relationship with the rest of the United Kingdom are determined.
77 Governance Risk management continued Principal risks and their management continued Risk definition Key controls overview Developments during the year Energy portfolio management Failure to identify and effectively manage the The Board approves levels of exposure which are The process of the UK energy prices becoming physical and financial exposures that result from strictly monitored through sophisticated reporting increasingly integrated into the wider global SSEs operational involvement in Generation, Fuel and clear reporting limits.
The Management Board energy market is continuing and as a result there Procurement, Wholesale Trading and Retail Supply.
has a Risk and Trading Committee, with members is an increasing focus on macro-economic and drawn from a number of key functions across SSE.
geopolitical issues in the ongoing management of the portfolio.
Asset and plant management Loss or extended disruption to key Group SSEs Engineering Centre oversees a process SSE has always emphasised the need for Infrastructure caused by failure loss of of asset life management and risk-based flexibility in its generation assets to ensure that containment of key plant.
Regular testing, review and changes in supply of and demand for electricity updating of major incident handling processes can be managed.
In 2012 13 SSE announced the takes place.
Capital spending and maintenance outcome of the review of its generation fleet to programmes are maintained and the Risk and reflect the future sustainability of the fleet in Trading Committee provides oversight.
Networks management Loss or extended disruption to key Group network Substantial refurbishment and upgrade The severe snowstorm in west Scotland in March infrastructure.
programmes are designed to prevent network 2013 represented a big challenge to electricity failures.
There is a rigorous post-event analysis network resilience.
The business continuity following each major network event such as plan was deployed successfully, with one of the storms.
Business continuity plans supported highlights being the highly successful enhanced by contingency sites and regular testing are plans for customer support and communications well established.
that had been developed following a similar event in the winter of 2011 12.
Cyber information security Unauthorised access or disclosure of data either SSE has in place an actively managed Information Cyber security has become an increasing focus within the SSE Group or between SSE and external Security programme across all of its activities to nationally at Government levels, and SSE has environments and markets.
significantly increased its investment in a specific IT Security Programme.
Supply chain Delivery of large-scale investment programme is Well-established procurement teams ensure A supplier relationship model is in place to build impacted through failure to establish, contract varying supply chains are identified and relationships with strategic suppliers and put and maintain adequate supply chains and counterparty exposures monitored.
SSE in the position of being a key customer.
In the high risk categories long-term contracts are implemented.
This is designed to secure supply chains and ensure value for money.
Treasury management Failure to identify and effectively manage treasury The Risk and Trading Committee oversees any SSE continued its approach of maintaining and tax exposures and to meet the organisations major changes to treasury policy or objectives.
diversity in its funding sources with the issuance funding requirements and obligations.
Regular reporting of treasury activity is made to of hybrid capital bonds, denominated in Euros the Audit Committee and Board.
Strong internal and US Dollars in September 2012.
In addition, controls are maintained and independent reviews new banking facilities, totalling 650m were take place.
signed in March 2013 and will be drawn later in the financial year.
Energy affordability Economic, social and energy market and policy Energy affordability is impacted by issues in In January 2013, the UK Department of Energy conditions which make it difficult for households the sourcing, production, distribution and and Climate Change published Policy impacts and businesses to pay the cost of electricity supply of electricity and gas.
In addition to on prices and bills, an assessment of how costs and gas.
assessing regularly the likely prevailing economic to consumers are affected by changes in energy environment in the years ahead, Managing and climate change policy.
It acknowledged Directors and their management teams are that energy and climate change policies impact focused on keeping to a minimum the costs households and businesses through changes associated with each part of the electricity in prices for goods and services and changing and gas chains.
patterns of consumption, in particular for energy.
Pension liabilities Liabilities increase due to market conditions There are periodic formal valuations of pension Continued improvements of member longevity or demographic changes and investments schemes and contributions supported by will likely add to the liabilities of both the Scottish under perform.
continual monitoring of scheme investments and Hydro-Electric and Southern Electric Pension valuations.
Performance of investment managers Schemes.
Uncertainty of markets in Eurozone are reviewed regularly by the pension trustees.
could detract from investment performance directly impacting scheme funding levels.
Sector developments Failure to identify tardiness in identifying There is a strong external focus to ensure There are four significant developments which step changes in the industry sectors and developments are anticipated and, where will influence the sector for the long term: reacting appropriately.
Senior managers electricity market reform: the Retail Market Review have responsibility for areas such as policy and and the RIIO model for economic regulation in research, strategy and business development.
Great Britain: and the process of harmonisation Participation in these areas is broad, to ensure affecting energy markets on the island of Ireland.
all relevant sector developments are addressed.
SSE continues to input to policy and regulatory developments in each of these areas.
Risk definition Key controls overview Developments during the year Large capital projects management Failure to deliver quality projects on time and The deployment and updating of SSEs Major Management Board Major Projects Standards on budget.
Projects Governance Framework is designed and Delivery Committee has completed a full to ensure projects are governed, developed, year of operation.
Its Terms of Reference have approved and executed in an effective manner.
been updated to reflect its role in overall portfolio management.
Transformation projects management Failure to deliver quality projects on time and SSE works with experienced advisers and The remit of SSEs Project Services team has on budget to implement required upgrades to suppliers and implements a strong governance been extended to include centralised expertise customer systems in relation to Smart Metering and assurance framework for all aspects of and support for all of SSEs significant projects, and the Energy Supply business requirements.
The approach including large transformational projects in Retail.
increasingly reflects the governance framework originally developed for large capital projects.
The Management Board Major Projects Standards and Delivery Committee reviews all major projects.
Compliance management Any significant or multiple compliance failures Wide-ranging consultation and review of all In March 2013, the GB energy regulator proposed could result in an adverse effect on SSE, including relevant regulatory, legal and accounting changes to its enforcement regime to deliver the possibility of financial penalties being levied.
Regulation, Compliance credible deterrence and meaningful consequences and Group Audit teams develop and monitor for businesses that fail consumers and dont compliance processes.
This is intended to complement its Retail Market Review which includes new enforceable standards of conduct.
SSE experienced the consequences of shortcomings in compliance management when it received and accepted in April 2013 a 10.5m penalty for past breaches of Energy Supply licence conditions.
Crisis management Inadequate response to a major emergency The corporate Emergency Planning and Response SSE reviewed and refreshed its approach contingency event.
If something goes wrong, standard is reviewed and issued annually.
to Business Continuity Planning and will how well can SSE deal with it?
Regular test exercises are undertaken.
A member progressively update existing plans.
Exercises of the Management Board champions crisis have been undertaken to practise SSEs response management.
capabilities at all levels in the Company.
Management of joint ventures Failure to effectively manage SSE Joint Venture Joint ventures are in themselves a means of SSE continues to enter into joint venture assets results in reputational damage or managing risk, but SSEs interests in them also arrangements, for large projects including destruction in value.
require careful management and oversight.
renewable generation, gas storage, thermal This is provided through clear governance generation and oil and gas projects.
arrangements, senior manager representation on Boards, and effective reporting within SSE to the Management Board and the Board as required.
Succession planning Not having cover for the Board and the The Nomination Committee of the Board is A regular management review of all succession Management Board and their direct reports.
responsible for reviewing the leadership needs plans for the Group businesses was held during of senior management in general and succession the year for senior roles, and to identify future plans for the Executive Directors in particular.
potential talent within the Group.
The successor The detailed report for this Committee is on to the Chief Executive was identified from within pages 80 and 81.
An external appointment to the newly created position of Managing Director, Retail was made during the year.
Resource and internal infrastructure Inability to establish and maintain a competent An integrated Group Services function is in place SSE seeks to strike the balance between cost workforce.
Failure to forward plan and identify to ensure optimum resource management, efficiency and investment in adequate resources a capabilities matrix to match growth plans.
including Safety, HR, IT, Facilities Management for the future.
A particular focus was IT, where the Portfolio of assets buildings, transport and and Procurement.
Director of IT has led the implementation of plans IT not maintained and enhanced to support to improve operational performance, service business plans.
Corporate arrogance or hubris Unwarranted belief in SSEs own abilities, There is Board oversight of this, and practical In a continuing environment of austerity in the failure to keep listening, inadequate regard application throughout SSE, including through UK and Ireland, higher unit prices for energy and for the Companys long term reputation and the performance appraisal system, of the SSE increasing expectations on the part of customers insufficient challenge to conventional wisdom.
SET of core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, and stakeholders of large corporations, SSE has Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
recognised the importance of safeguarding its reputation by including an explicit reference to it in the definition of this principal risk.
