Risk Management The Group operates an internal risk control system to evaluate and manage risks as described in the section Internal Control and Risk Management on page 49 of this report.
Besides general risk factors, a non-exhaustive summary of specific risks affecting the Groups operations and industry is outlined below.
Consumer Confidence Airport Safety and Security As a key supplier to UK retailers, the Groups revenues are not There are inherent safety and security risks involved in operating as sensitive to general economic and consumer spending an airport.
The airport management and staff are well equipped conditions.
This is because a large proportion of loads carried to manage fire and other safety and security related risks.
London are within the Fast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG sector.
Southend Airport and Carlisle Lake District Airport are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority and the Department for Transport.
Where volumes fluctuate, the Group operates a fleet financing Documented protocols and emergency plans are in place.
and recruitment policy which allows it to flex its operations in response to both increases and decreases in demand.
Demand for Integrated and Outsourced Transport and Logistics Seasonality and Abnormal Weather The transport and logistics industry in the UK has seen a general Supplying UK retailers, the Groups revenue has been trend towards an increased demand from customers for an seasonally linked with its customers, with demand peaking in integrated transport and logistics service from suppliers with the summer months and the build-up to Christmas.
January national and international operations, as opposed to companies and February have typically been the slowest trading months.
providing only one service on a limited regional basis.
The Group has grown non-seasonal business to minimise these The Board believes that the Group is well positioned to take peaks and troughs, but revenues will still flex in response to advantage of this move towards integrated and outsourced strong or weak retail trading: particularly in the build-up to transport and logistics with both national and international Christmas.
The ability to flex the fleet in response as outlined capabilities, offering a more operationally efficient service.
above also mitigates this risk.
Extreme weather, such as high winds and snow, can disrupt the People Groups business as the fleet and rail terminals can have difficulty operating.
Pre-emptive controls have been introduced The strategic and operational management of the Group to mitigate risk during extreme weather such as stockpiling grit depends on certain key management.
Management is retained for use at depots, cleaning and treating rail terminal points.
by competitive performance-based remuneration and key man insurance policies are in place.
Government Legislation and Regulation Competition Operating in the transport and distribution sector, the Group is subject to a number of areas of legislation and regulation.
The transport and logistics industry remains highly polarised, Legislation and regulation in areas such as working time, health with a large number of small regional operators competing for and safety, road duties, fuel costs and environment can have general transport work and a small number of national and an impact on a number of operational areas.
The management international businesses capable of offering fully outsourced team has worked within these constraints through the integrated solutions to major UK customers.
introduction of appropriate systems and controls.
The Group is targeting national transport and logistics contracts worth in excess of 10m per annum.
However, due to the nature Information Technology of the innovative cost model, the Group will also seek other business to complement its traffic flows with a focus on The Groups business model is dependent on certain information profitability and efficiency.
systems and externally hosted databases.
These are backed up and the Group has in-house IT services.
Documented protocols and risk assessments are in place along with service level agreements with key suppliers.
These are supported by an IT Business Continuity Plan to ensure risk is mitigated.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 39 Nature of Lease Obligations Stobart Group has a number of warehouse and operating depot leases which represent a significant cost commitment and contribute to material fixed costs.
Where possible, the Group sublets facilities in back-to-back arrangements with end customers to minimise financial risk.
The warehouses are predominantly on standard commercial property terms and include periodic upwards only rent reviews.
Fuel Prices Fuel prices represent a high cost in the Group.
The impact of fuel price movements on financial performance in 2011 12 and 2012 13 has been negligible due to the use of fuel price escalators within all customers contracts.
Commercial Property The Group currently holds an interest in a number of commercial property assets.
These properties are subject to the general property market climate.
Some of the values have been substantially written down in previous years following the downturn in the commercial property market.
The Group has seen an increase in value in the properties as a whole during the year.
Acquisitions The enlarged Stobart Group was formed by a merger in September 2007 and has, since then, completed a further eight major acquisitions.
The synergistic benefits from the mergers and acquisitions will be derived from successful integration of the various interests.
The Group has adopted detailed integration plans to ensure the integrations are successful.
Capital Expenditure The successful development of the Groups assets at London Southend Airport, Carlisle Lake District Airport, Widnes, the Moneypenny portfolio of properties and the Port of Weston at Runcorn will depend, to an extent, on securing funding for the proposals.
The Group manages its capital and debt and believes it is in a strong position to realise the potential of these assets.
