SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Risk In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the board understands the need for a robust system of internal control and risk management.
Following a review of risks to the Group, a further assessment of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group has been undertaken, which is reviewed by the executive committee and board.
The directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group.
These may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the Group: Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Fashion and design The Group may The Group will continue to design new and trends may not be experience inventory innovative products, and will ensure a high responded to.
shortages or excesses level of market awareness and understanding that could result in of fashion and consumer trends by carrying reduced margins, lost out market research, brand tracking, visits to revenue or customer trade fairs and product research.
The Group is constantly refreshing and updating its product range and this assists in differentiating the product to meet evolving consumer needs.
As owner of the Superdry brand, the Group is less sensitive to fashion trends than many other clothing retailers.
Risk of unfavourable The Groups financial The Group has a documented foreign changes in currency results become exchange policy and maintains constant exchange rates.
unpredictable due to management oversight, including board changes in exchange review, of foreign exchange exposure and rates.
The Groups policy is to hedge these risks by using forward foreign exchange contracts and this policy is set out in note 31 of this report.
Economic and The Groups results The Group will continue to monitor and assess financial conditions can be affected by the the status of the EU economic and financial result in challenging impact of economic environment and potential impacts.
conditions on consumer confidence and buying The Group continues to implement its habits.
strategies to develop and strengthen the Superdry brand globally thereby reducing its dependency on specific markets.
Ability to support Failure to manage A five year plan is in place which sets out planned growth of the the pace of change the key strategic initiatives which will be Group by developing effectively could impact required to support the planned growth of the its supply base, on the Groups ability to Group.
These initiatives are owned by senior infrastructure and achieve planned growth executives and are reported on regularly to people.
The recruitment of experienced senior members of the management team will help drive the successful implementation of these initiatives as well as underpinning future operations.
Indicates the change in overall level of risk assessment during the course of 2013.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 24 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Risk Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Failure to deliver Failure to manage key Robust board level project approval processes business critical projects could impact are in place to ensure that appropriate due projects.
on the effectiveness and diligence is carried out before a project is efficiency of business undertaken.
operations or delay growth opportunities.
Improvements have been made to the project governance framework.
Enhanced project and risk management disciplines are in place and reviews are carried out at key checkpoints.
Failure to ensure There is potential for Ethical Trading matters are led by the COO to compliance in the the Group to suffer whom a dedicated sustainability team reports.
supplier base to negative customer and SuperGroup is an active member of Ethical ethical trading policy.
stakeholder sentiment Trading Initiative ETI.
with associated impact on customer and The Group actively engages with its supply investor appeal.
base and expects to operate in accordance with its ethical trading code of practice.
The Group assesses the status of operating practices through a schedule of focused audits and company visits, where necessary, working with suppliers on improvement plans.
Key infrastructure or Should any of these The Group continues to invest in improving IT systems may be facilities be unavailable the availability, integrity and confidentiality of unavailable due to for an extended time its business systems and has a roadmap for operational problems period, the Groups business system replacement.
ability to trade will be impaired.
A phased approach is being taken to improve the reliability, efficiency and scalability of the Groups warehousing and distribution capabilities.
Enhancements to the Groups business continuity planning procedures continue to be developed.
Loss of key individuals There could be The management team has been or the inability to significant focus strengthened considerably over the past 12 attract and retain from investors and months.
Susanne Given as COO and Shaun talent.
stakeholders relating to Wills as CFO are now well established in their our ability to maintain roles.
New executive appointments have and expand the brand been made in the areas of HR, IT, Logistics and Group.
and Retail during the past year.
The Design team also continues to be expanded and Lack of appropriately strengthened.
skilled and experienced resource could result in Following appointment of the new HR a delay in achieving the Director, the Groups recruitment and retention Groups strategic goals.
processes are being reviewed and enhanced.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Risk Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Brand damage may The strength of the Brand tracking and sales analysis occurs to occur due to overSuperdry brand is ensure that the brand does not become overexposure of the fundamental to the exposed in any of its markets.
Growth in more Superdry brand or business.
There is a mature markets is carefully planned to avoid counterfeit product.
risk that the brand may over-saturation.
be over-exposed or damaged by copied or Working with third party services the Group counterfeit products, constantly monitors its supply chain and the with inferior quality and global sales of Superdry branded product design.
by unlicensed parties, taking necessary action to both stop and where possible take proceedings against them.
A Brand Protection Manager has recently been appointed to strengthen these controls further.
Regulatory and Legal Failure to comply with When operating outside the UK, the Group Frameworks.
regulatory frameworks works with experienced partners who bring in the diverse markets significant local knowledge.
Specialist in which the Group professional and legal advice is also sought operates could result relevant to the local markets.
in financial penalties or reputational damage.
The Group has recently strengthened both its internal legal team and the external support partners used.
Execution of The Group fails to Ownership of international strategic risks is international grow the international held by the recently appointed Managing expansion.
business successfully Director, International and Wholesale, who has through franchise extensive international retail experience.
operations, wholly owned businesses and Progress is regularly reviewed and discussed e-commerce.
Risks that the Group Strong relationships developed with the key fails to prioritise the right stakeholders and identification of established, territories or investment.
The international Identification of appropriate ranges for the economic climate does country or territory and identifying a cultural fit not support the Groups with the Superdry brand.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
