Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Principal risks and uncertainties Over the last year the Group has continued to develop and build risk Risk management achievements in 2012 13 include: management capability and consistency in line with its agreed risk establishing a new Group and regional risk management management strategy.
A major risk review has been completed and framework: the key risks to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives have beenidentified.
producing the Groups major risk register and developing supporting regional risk groups and registers: Following a thorough review of the Groups risk management framework and systems, risk management resource has been extending the globalisation of the Group insurance programme to all furtherstrengthened by the creation ofregional risk manager roles regions, achieving greater consistency of cover and leveraging scale: tosupport the regions inimplementing enhanced systems and developing and commencing the implementation of enhanced risk effectively managing risk.
management tools, including the risk management information system, global incident reporting, the Group crisis response plan Risk management at Synergy Health plc and global ethics line: and Risk management supports the Groups vision to build a lasting establishing risk management as a global function within Synergy, reputation and our core values by: and driving consistency.
building and protecting the Groups reputation by championing a Health and safety responsible approach to business: Staff safety remains a key priority for Synergy.
We recognise the need achieving brand and business resilience supported by effective risk to manage safety with a risk-based approach.
During the last year the management: Group safety policy hasbeen updated and re-launched to better reflect the organisation and diversity of the business.
developing the culture and capability across the Group to manage changing risks and opportunities: and Although the Group has had safety procedures in place formany years, we constantly strive to improve.
Work on the review and ensuring the safety and well-being of employees and others who enhancement of existing safety standards and procedures has could be affected by our business activities.
continued: the implementation of a web-based risk management The Board has the ultimate ownership of risk management with system provides a central resource for updated, regionally-aligned, responsibilities cascaded into the organisation through the regional procedures andguidance.
Incidents and claims Our risk management strategy is therefore to enable and support In spite of health and safety management procedures and safe each facility, business function and region to manage its own risks.
working systems being in place, a small number of accidents, This is accomplished by embedding risk management into the incidents and claims remain inevitable.
Minor accidents, including culture of the Group and translating risk management into operational slips, trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the leading cause of ownership, defining clear responsibilities and measuring risk injuries to employees and the risk management team is continuing management performance.
towork in close partnership with the business and our insurers to The Synergy Health Board and executive team are committed to focus on practical methods for further reducing the risk of injuries providing a safe workplace and managing risk: risk management and ill health.
reports are submitted regularly to the plc Board, Senior Executive Claims management has been a particular focus area, with the Board and AuditCommittee.
teamworking closely with insurers to further enhance investigation, The ongoing review of health, safety and risk management has led defensibility and management of claims in order to reduce costs and toa number of initiatives which are being implemented, including claims experience.
aweb-based risk management information system, online incident reporting, the development of global safety standards and the Risk financing associated assurance programme.
To ensure the effective Although the majority of the Groups operations had been previously implementation of these systems and the development of consistent brought into the global insurance programme, continued business policies, procedures and training across the regions, the risk growth and acquisitions in the last year have resulted in a management team is being strengthened by the appointment of corresponding growth of the global programme.
In addition to regional risk managers for the UK & Ireland, Europe & Middle East, achieving greater consistency of cover, the inclusion of expiring local and the Americas.
insurance needs into the Group programme has also delivered cost savings against like-for-like sums insured.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 23 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued The few remaining local insurance policies which remain subject Following the development of the Groups risk management tolonger term agreements will be incorporated into the Groups framework, the focus has centered on the major risk review and insurance programme by the end of 2013 14, which aligns with resulting major risk register, which was agreed at the end of 2012. ourobjective to carry out a full strategic review of risk financing The major risk register captures the most significant current and withinthree years of implementing the global programme.
emerging strategic risks, assigning relevant risk ratings, ownership and additional mitigating controls.
The major risks and progress Code of Ethics reports are reviewed regularly by the Board.
The Group is committed to carrying on our business ethically and in Each region, Group function and business unit is responsible for line with good business practices.
The Group reviewed its Code of owning and managing risks within their area of responsibility.
Ethics and subsidiary anti-corruption, gifts and corporate hospitality policies following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010.
To ensure the consistent implementation of the risk management framework at regional level, the risk groups inthe UK & Ireland have The whistleblower reporting arrangements have been updated with been restructured to provide a single cross-regional forum.
Similar aconfidential telephone ethics hotline and a new email reporting risk groups have been created in the other regions.
An ethics hotline information poster, including local language risk groups, chaired and attended by senior regional leadership, are versions, has been developed and rolled out across the business.
responsible for the ownership of major risks and also for the The Group has continued to deliver Bribery Act training across the identification of, and response to, specific regional risks.
business, using a range of taught and e-learning training materials.
The regional risk registers are developing and are monitored by Corporate risk management theSenior Executive Board, thereby delivering effective ongoing Key risks within each business area are managed in a consistent and identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting of risks to structured manner and reported at the Board and the Groups Audit theGroup.
Accountability formanaging risks rests with the business The risk categories have also been reviewed to provide greater leadership.
consistency and key risk categories adopted include strategic, Corporate risk management provides tools, support and challenge to financial, processes, people, safety and hazard, and legal.
the leadership teams within the regions and functions in connection Withinthese broad headings the key risks and controls include: with managing risk.
Corporate risk management processes are included in an ongoing review, with the aims of: Strategic challenging the quality of risks identified: Business retention and expansion Challenging trading conditions, cost-cutting in healthcare sectors and challenging the effectiveness of policies, standards, training and the ongoing economic constraints continue to provide uncertainties other controls: but also opportunities for the Group.
challenging the appropriateness of actions to improve the The risks are mitigated, and associated opportunities optimised, transparency of risk-based decision making: and bythe Group maintaining effective cost leadership, combined with maximising the value to the business of risk management beyond excellent levels of service and quality.
Cost leadership, service levels simply meeting compliance requirements.
and quality continue to be key differentiators in the healthcare market and the Group continues to attract and retain business.
Principal risks and uncertainties Commodities The risk management strategy aims to address the risks and The cost of energy and demand for raw materials can be subject to opportunities associated with the Groups strategic plan.
As part of sudden increase, and may be influenced by geopolitical unrest and the ongoing review and enhancement of the Groups risk management natural catastrophes.
The economic climate also continues to be systems, a new framework setting out how the Group identifies, challenging in respect of prices and margins across all business responds and reports on risk performance was agreed in 2012. sectors and associated logistics services.
This strategy, which follows the broad requirements of ISO31000 Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic Risk Management Principles and Guidelines, translates the commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential ownership of risks and performance measurement into clear supplies and effective cost management.
Process innovation and operational objectives.
quality are essential to the Groups aim to differentiate itself from itscompetitors.
24 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Reputation, brand and media Financial Whilst damage to reputation may be considered a consequence of Financial control and reporting other risks materialising, the Group takesthe broader view that brand The global nature of the Group and its markets necessitates robust reputation is critically important.
Loss of reputation would significantly financial control and reporting.
Regional tax regimes and currency impact onthe Groups ability to retain and grow the business.
Accurate financial reporting Astrong brand is equally important to the Groups economic and analysis are essential to ensure that financial performance and performance, market recognition and corporategovernance.
long term shareholder value remain on track.
The growth of social media has transformed how news is reported, Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in and particularly the speed with which events are now reported and retains employees with comprehensive financial and regional around the world.
Uncontrolled and adverse media reporting could experience.
The Groups recruitment and leadership programmes have a significant impact on the Group in the event of an incident.
areimportant elements of recruiting and developing the right talent.
Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group over Mitigation is primarily based on maintaining and enhancing the anumber of years provide additional assurance that regional Groups existing good reputation through its commitment to being a requirements are fully complied with.
The Group has developed a clear brand identity.
Protecting the brand in the event of a crisis is reliant The implementation of a new Group enterprise resource planning on robust crisis response and business continuity planning.
application, IFS, has remained on track throughout 2012, supporting enhanced financial reporting and cost leadership.
Acquisition risks As the Group has continued to grow through acquisition, the risk The financial performance of regional business units against the ofinheriting legacy liabilities and debts remains a key uncertainty.
Groups strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review through Existing exposure includes workers compensation liabilities attached the regional management structure.
to the former SRI business and legacy employee compensation claims for noise-induced hearing loss.
Processes The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated through IT infrastructure extensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities for Information technology is an integral part of Synergys business strategic growth are balanced against financial risks.
The Group is andoperational systems.
The failure of key IT systems would have proactively managing existing workers compensation claims, and significant impacts on business performance.
The increasing threat hasover the last year completed an extensive insurance archaeology of cyber attack and the vulnerabilities of the Cloud in this respect are exercise to identify relevant insurance cover for all legacy claims.
included in the Groups major risk review.
Internal investment Mitigation is being achieved through the strengthening of IT resource Major projects and other internal investments are equally critical and the implementation of projects to address risks associated with tomeeting the Groups strategic objectives, and failure to achieve legacy systems.
The key aim of these projects is to ensure that critical planned returns on investment or to deliver projects on time or systems can be fully supported, are sustainable and provide scalability agreedscope can have financial, operational, commercial and as the business continues to grow.
The projects also offer added reputational impacts.
value through improving consistency and cost leadership.
Projects and internal investments are based on a robust business IT systems and procedures are in place to support business case.
These must clearly identify the associated risks and are subject continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring to critical review and approval.
The Group applies its established information security.
riskreview processes to all major projects to ensure that risks are Business continuity identified, evaluated and reviewed through the life of the project.
The loss of operational capacity due to the unexpected loss of one ormore facilities is potentially significant.
Consequently, stakeholders expectations regarding business continuity planning are increasingly critical elements of their assurance and contractual requirements.
Mitigation is achieved through the continuing development, review and testing of business continuity planning.
Inaddition to meeting required safe working, fire safety and maintenance requirements, allfacilities have localised emergency response plans in place, which aim to minimise any disruption caused by incidents or plant failures.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 25 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Therisk management team is also working in partnership with Loss of key person insurers and other partners to continually review and enhance The Group Chief Executive Officer and other key individuals are theGroups business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
The loss of any of these key people could impact on shareholder value and the future success of the business.
Quality standards compliance The Group provides services to highly regulated markets which Whilst it is difficult to fully mitigate the consequences oflosing leaders operate to a range of internationally recognised quality standards.
and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being essential Ourbusiness also relies on maintaining the highest level of quality to the business, the Groupaims to reduce the potential impact assurance to protect patient safety.
Failing to meet quality standards through succession planning and maintaining a strong senior would have a significant impact on our business and reputation.
Mitigation of these risks is dependent on having clearly established Safety and hazard quality control processes in place, together with ongoing review and procedures for implementing corrective actions where issues or Fire safety improvements are identified.
The Group has a well developed quality The principal property risk is fire within laundry premises.
The Group adopts an approach of continuous the abundance of fuel sources, a laundry fire can quickly escalate to improvement of its quality assurance procedures.
a major conflagration with consequent risks for employees and for the public, and the potential loss of the property and equipment.
Insurance costs Recent global events and the rising cost of claims will affect the Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and fire market capacity and the cost of insurance.
The Group has comprehensive fire safety procedures have also been levied in some countries, in order to help tackle andworks closely with the fire authorities and insurers to identify national economic deficits.
Increasing costs due to either these andcontrol fire hazards.
market forces or the Groups risk management performance have adirect impact on financial performance.
Legal The key mitigation is the global insurance programme supported by Compliance the risk management strategy to reduce the Groups risk profile and The Group operates across a number of territories with different claims experience.
The Group works closely with incumbent insurers lawsand codes.
In addition, regulation, particularly relating to the and has maintained long term agreements on critical areas of cover environment, safety and corporate governance, is subject to change to effectively manage premium costs.
with increasingly higher levels of compliance required.
Keeping pacewith, and understanding, the changing requirements of local People legislation across the regions is essential to achieving compliance.
Loss of knowledge and expertise Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have ownership The Group has built its reputation on providing expertise across a oflocal compliance supported by risk management oversight range of specialist outsourced services.
The Group differentiates itself toensure that legislative changes are highlighted and effectively by offering exceptional support toits customers, and this requires the implemented.
The Groups aim is to ensure that our policies and Group to attract, develop and retain the highest calibre people across standard operating procedures set best practice, thereby ensuring each of its businesses.
Although employee turnover is very low, the compliance with legislation.
impact of losing knowledge and experience from the Group is still considered sufficient for this to remain a keyrisk.
Risk management strategy 2013 14 Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating The risk management strategy aims to provide a continuously working environment with opportunities for individuals to develop, improving, increasingly proactive and embedded risk management ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow successfully capability across the organisation.
This is based on devolving in both existing and new markets.
The Group has well established ownership of risks to the relevant operational and functional teams, graduate, leadership and personal development programmes, and and developing globally consistent safety standards, systems and has recently supplemented these with aglobal employee assurance processes.
The benefits and importance of robust and proactive risk management are clear, with risk management enabling the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and protect and enhance its assets, including ourreputation.
26 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013
