Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Strategy for mitigation Conditions in the global economy, economic The Group maintains a balanced portfolio of products uctuations in customer industries and volatility serving a wide range of end markets around the globe.
and cyclicality of the global chemicals and polymers Business performance at geographical level and markets may adversely affect the results of the Group.
business unit is closely monitored and corrective actions are taken as necessary.
The markets in which the Group operates are The Group continues to invest in existing and new highly competitive and the Group may lose market products and technologies through R&D.
The Group share to other producers of water-based polymers continues to invest in new facilities to allow the Group or to other products that can be substituted for the to maintain its key market positions.
As part of the products of the Group.
Groups strategic planning process it identies and converts acquisition targets to enhance market positions and provide new technologies.
The ability of the Group to compete is highly The Group continues to invest in existing and new dependent on its ability to develop technological products and technologies through R&D.
As part innovations, to introduce new products and to protect of the Groups strategic planning process it identies its intellectual property, trade secrets and know-how.
and converts acquisition targets to enhance market Failure to do so could have an adverse affect on positions and provide new technologies.
The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials Sourcing strategies are in place Group-wide to access may lead to production interruptions and volatility in multiple sources for key raw materials and the Group the prices of such raw materials and energy prices works closely with key suppliers to ensure availability.
may adversely affect the profitability of the Group The Group looks to identify alternative raw materials and its working capital position.
The Group actively manages margins and recovers input cost increases from customers, where possible.
Operational risks The Group may be liable for damages based on Technically qualied personnel and control systems product liability claims brought against its customers are in place around the Group to ensure products in end-use markets.
All sites operate quality management systems.
The Group has a Group-wide product liability insurance which provides 50 million of cover.
18 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Operational risks continued Strategy for mitigation Compliance with extensive environmental, health Detailed safety, health and environmental SHE and safety laws and regulations could require material processes are documented in operating guidance expenditure, changes in the operations of the Group which is updated and communicated to staff on or site remediation.
The manufacture, storage and transportation of Robust maintenance programmes are undertaken chemicals is inherently dangerous and any incidents in order to ensure that our facilities meet up to Group relating to the hazards which the Group faces may and local legal requirements.
adversely affect its financial condition, results of The Group operates a central internal audit function operations and reputation.
dedicated to SHE issues and programmes for continuous improvement across all major SHE areas are in place Group-wide.
The ongoing success of the Group is dependent The Group offers competitive compensation on attracting and retaining high quality senior packages with annual bonus and long-term incentive management and staff who can effectively manage arrangements for key employees.
Appropriate notice the Groups operations.
periods and non-compete clauses are used to mitigate short-term risk for key employees.
The Group is also developing a succession plan for key positions.
Financial risks As a significant proportion of the Groups turnover The Group has a policy of hedging all significant and assets are in currencies other than pounds foreign exchange transactional exposure at operating sterling uctuations in currency exchange rates may company level and also hold debt facilities in key signicantly impact the results of the operations of the currencies to offset uctuations in overseas Group and may signicantly affect the comparability asset values.
of financial results between financial periods.
The Groups balance sheet and cash ow or credit The Group closely monitors cash ow and working market conditions and credit ratings may restrict the capital performance on a monthly basis and regularly ability of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to reviews covenant compliance.
The Group has a policy renance its existing debt facilities in the longer term.
on leverage limits and has adequate headroom on In addition, interest rate uctuations and increases a twelve month forecast basis through a range of in bank lending margins may increase the Groups facilities with varying expiry dates.
Interest rate risk costs of borrowing.
is managed through the use of interest rate hedging, as required.
The Group has funding risks relating to dened benefit The UK scheme was closed to future accrual during pension schemes and any deterioration in the value 2009.
The risks are mitigated by paying appropriate of assets in which the pension scheme has invested contributions into the funds and through balanced as against the financial obligations to make payments investment strategies which are designed to avoid to members of the schemes could have an adverse a material impact to the fund assets.
