TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties In common with other 1 Competitive environment 5 Data security organisations, we are Potential impact: Failure to prevent the loss or Potential impact: Increased competition in the UK voice, affected by a number exploitation of personally identifiable or commercially broadband and TV market may impact financial performance.
of risks, not all of which sensitive information could result in loss of competitive are in our control.
Mitigation: We regularly monitor the product offerings advantage, regulatory fines, damage to the brand and Some risks, such as ofour key competitors as well as the latest market and ultimately churn.
This ensures we identify opportunities UK macroeconomic Mitigation: We continually review the Groups data to strengthen our competitive position by broadening factors, are likely to security, investing in and implementing new solutions, andenriching the products and services we offer and by affect the performance both to prevent and detect security breaches, as they finding ways to deliver greater benefits for our value-seeking of UK businesses become available.
In addition, the Data Governance customers.
This financial year, TalkTalk successfully generally, while others Council, chaired by the Chief Technology Officer, launched both a new TV and mobile handset proposition.
are particular to our meetsfortnightly throughout the year to review data These new product offerings will enable TalkTalk to operations.
This section security risks and progress with their mitigation.
differentiate ourselves from other triple and quad play sets out the material providers in the marketplace.
risks to the Group and 6 Network stability and reliability how we seek to mitigate 2 Regulatory environment Potential impact: Failure to provide a stable and reliable them in the day to day service may cause customer churn.
Potential impact: Changes in regulation can significantly running of our business.
Mitigation: We have continued to invest heavily in our network to improve resilience and performance and to Mitigation: We actively participate in pricing consultations ensure we keep pace with our customers growing demands.
by Ofcom, including the use of independent experts to provide assistance and evidence as required.
Current reviews are underway of the Wholesale Local Access 7 Key suppliers Market Review, LLU Change Control and the Wholesale Potential impact: The Group has a number of critical Broadband Access Market Review.
There is close liaison suppliers.
Failure of any of these suppliers could significantly with Ofcom to ensure that the Groups views on the future affect the Groups ability to continue operations and of regulation are well represented.
Mitigation: We continue to review our processes and controls 3 Regulatory compliance around supplier selection and in-life risk management.
Potential impact: Failure to operate effective processes This helps to reduce the likelihood and potential impact and controls across the Group may have an adverse impact ofbusiness interruption due to supplier failure.
on the services we deliver to our customers, leading to churn, and non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
8 Customer experience Mitigation: The Groups Regulatory Compliance Committee Potential impact: Failure to deal with customer queries, convenes at least quarterly to monitor the mitigation resolve service faults and other issues in line with our ofoperational risks which could give rise to customer customers expectations could lead to complaints, complaints and regulatory breaches.
This financial year, damage to our brand and customer churn.
anew Consumer Quality & Compliance department has been established with responsibility for the independent Mitigation: We are committed to continuously reviewing monitoring of compliance for Consumer customers.
and improving the level of customer service we provide.
TheDirector of Quality & Compliance chairs aweekly InFY13 we have launched a number of initiatives to i operational Compliance Committee meeting which reduce the likelihood of customers experiencing service isattended by senior executives.
issues, ii improve the ability of our customers toself-help via new online tools and iii delivering better training and tools to our Customer Service teams so that queries and 4 Change management complaints can be handled more effectively.
Potential impact: We continue to review, rationalise and integrate our IT infrastructure and to simplify the way in 9 Scaling TV which we operate our business.
Disruption to our operations could have an adverse impact on the services we provide Potential impact: Having successfully launched a TV to our customers and on our financial performance.
service with YouView, there is a risk that TalkTalk is unable to maximise competitive advantage through its failure to Mitigation: The Executive Committee regularly monitors scale its network, operations and supply chain efficiently.
the progress of our significant change programmes and their associated risks.
TalkTalks Group Change Forum, Mitigation: There are a number of areas of focus: i YouView comprised of senior executives, is responsible for continues to invest in innovation and to roll-out its strategic establishing and monitoring adherence to the governance product roadmap, ii TalkTalk has recently launched a framework which determines how change is managed.
TVself-install proposition to support our TV rollout, iii the Group continues toinvest in the network and toplanfor future capacity requirements, iv TalkTalk continues to work closely with the major content providers to secure distribution rights for the most popular content, v the Group and its strategic partners are focused on and have plans in place to continually improve the resilience ofthe supply chain.
