Operational Review Risks Managing the risks we face effectively Tate & Lyle is exposed to a number of risks which might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Responsibility for managing each key risk The Groups risk management process Groups system of risk management and and the associated mitigating controls is continues to follow the Committee of internal control.
The schedule of matters allocated to an individual executive within Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway reserved to the Board ensures that the each business unit.
As part of the process, Commission COSO Enterprise Risk directors control, among other matters, senior executive management formally framework.
The COSO framework provides all significant strategic, financial and confirms once a year that these key risks a process to manage the risk of failure to organisational issues.
are being managed appropriately within achieve business objectives and assurance their operations and that controls have against material loss or misstatement.
Approach been examined and are effective.
The The Groups enterprise-wide risk Key risks confirmations and any exceptions are management and reporting process helps Key risks and uncertainties identified as discussed at the Audit Committee and management to identify, assess, prioritise part of the risk management process Corporate Responsibility Committee, and and mitigate risk.
The process involves a undertaken during the year, together with where appropriate, reported to the Board.
rolling programme of workshops, facilitated some of the mitigating actions that we are During the year ended 31 March 2013, the by the risk management function, held taking, are set out below.
It is not possible Board and the Group Executive Committee around the Group.
The risks identified are to identify or anticipate every risk that may undertook an exercise to consider the collated and reported through functional affect the Group.
Our overall success as nature and extent of the Groups risk and divisional levels to the Group Executive a global business depends, in part, upon appetite.
The results of this exercise are Committee.
This culminates in the our ability to succeed in different economic, used as part of the Groups strategic identification of the Groups key business, social and political environments and to planning activities, and in considering financial, operational and compliance risks manage and to mitigate these risks.
with associated action plans and controls to mitigate them where possible and to the extent deemed appropriate taking account of costs and benefits.
The output is then reviewed by the Board.
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions The safety of our employees, contractors, Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, Safety suppliers, and the communities in which outside business unit control, sets and monitors safety and environmental Failure to act we operate is paramount.
We must standards safely and to operate within local laws, regulations, Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with dedicated staff maintain the to ensure they are embedded and measured rules and ordinances relating to health, safe and safety and the environment, including Regular review of performance and policies by the Corporate Responsibility continuous Committee emissions.
The operation of plants operation of involves many risks, which could cause Safety and environmental targets are included in employees performance our facilities objectives a temporary or permanent stoppage in production and could have a material Internal global compliance audits on safety and environment performed Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly adverse effect on the Group.
as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in the event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure backed by appropriate insurance coverage against business interruption.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 26 Operational Review Operational Review Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions The Groups strategy is to become the Three platforms have been established in Innovation and Commercial Strategy leading global provider of speciality food Development Sweeteners, Texturants and Health & Wellness to drive Failure to ingredients and solutions.
Failure to new product development and innovation in Speciality Food Ingredients grow in deliver on this strategy over the longer New global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre opened in Chicago, speciality food term would negatively affect the Groups USA in 2012 to promote closer collaboration with speciality food ingredient ingredients credibility and reputation.
customers and to link with the global network of applications and technical services facilities Investments are being made to increase the Groups sales and technical resources in emerging markets Internal capabilities have been enhanced to help promote growth through acquisition Open Innovation team actively scout for breakthrough technologies and opportunities across industries and universities A second corporate venture fund launched to invest in start-ups and expansion-stage companies in the global food science and investment community Programmes in place to recruit new staff and develop existing staff to upgrade skill sets particularly in customer-facing areas and innovation.
The safety of consumers of our products Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, Quality is critical.
Poor quality or sub-standard manages Group-wide quality process and procedures with dedicated staff Failure to products or poor customer service could at all facilities to ensure they are embedded andmeasured maintain the have a negative impact on our reputation Product safety and quality policies and procedures in place to prevent quality of our and relationships with customers.
contamination products and Policies procedures and performance reviewed regularly by the Corporate high standards Responsibility Committee of customer Third-party audit programme in place, supplemented by internal global service compliance audits Recall simulation exercises undertaken.
Performance, knowledge and skills of Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward employees People employees are central to success.
with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Failure to We must attract, integrate and retain the Talent strategy to provide opportunities for employees to develop careers attract, develop talent required to fulfil our ambitions and Single global performance appraisal process and system in place and retain key deliver the Groups strategy.
Inability to Increased Board-level focus on succession planning for key roles.
personnel retain key knowledge and adequately plan for succession could have a negative impact on Company performance.
The Group operates in diverse markets Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation in such areas Legal and and therefore is exposed to a wide range as health and safety, environment, quality, food and corporate governance are regulatory of legal and regulatory frameworks.
regularly monitored and reviewed Non-compliance We must understand and comply with Global regulatory team supported by external consultants, monitors local with legislation all applicable legislation.
Any breach regulatory requirements affecting our products and how these change and regulation could have a financial impact and over time damage our reputation.
Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as anti-trust and anti-corruption laws: and provide ongoing training to employees.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 27 Operational Review Risks continued Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Margins may be affected by fluctuations in New purchasing and storage practices developed to minimise the impact of Raw crop prices due to factors such as harvest aflatoxin a fungus impacting corn quality caused by prolonged hot and dry materials and weather conditions, crop disease, conditions, such as those experienced in certain parts of the US during Fluctuations the year crop yields, alternative crops and in prices and co-product values.
In some cases, due to Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies availability of Multiple-source supply agreements for key ingredient supplies the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or raw materials, due to competitive markets, we may not Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation with customers energy, freight to manage balance of raw material prices and product sales prices and be able to pass on to customers the full and other increase in raw material prices or higher volume risks operating inputs Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security of supply energy, freight or other operating costs.
Additionally, margin may be affected by Network of grain elevators in place in the US to hold corn supplies Derivatives used where possible to hedge exposure to movements in future customers not taking volumes to which they previously committed.
The Group has committed to a Dedicated internal resources allocated to the project Key projects programme to transform its operational Programme subject to both internal and external audit and review Failure to capabilities, primarily by implementing a Formal steering committee executive management and Board Audit implement common global IS IT platform and global Committee review of project progress against agreed milestones the Groups shared services.
If this programme is not and timelines programme to implemented as planned, this would have Retained services of experienced external global implementation partners transform its an adverse impact on the Groups ability Ongoing refinements to programme based on lessons learnt in the process.
operational to achieve its strategy.
capabilities We must be fully prepared to counter Innovation and Commercial Development and regulatory experts substantiate Reputation unexpected unfounded negative publicity relevant product claims prior to launch Failure to about our products.
Media relations advisors monitor Group press coverage and action plans counter to deal with any negative publicity negative Participation in trade organisations and industry-wide initiatives to promote perceptions of and protect our products the Groups When dealing with regulatory bodies, industry and consumer groups, and products the media, our regulatory and nutrition teams focus on credible, high quality science to inform debates on the benefits, risks or efficacy of our ingredients.
We must manage our finances within Capital expenditure procedures to control and monitor allocation and spend Finance strictly controlled parameters, particularly All new investments are evaluated against clear strategic and financial criteria Failure to when external financial conditions are with greater scrutinity and clear execution milestones for approved investments manage the uncertain and highly changeable.
External resources and expertise used where required balance sheet, The change programme currently being Exposure to liquidity risk is managed by ensuring access is maintained particularly undertaken by the Group consists of a to a wide range of funding sources, and by effective management of our during periods number of capital expenditure projects cash resources.
of economic which, if not delivered successfully, could uncertainty negatively affect the Groups performance and reputation.
Without effective internal financial Policies ensure that key tasks are segregated to safeguard assets Finance controls, we could be exposed to financial Finance and capital expenditure manuals set out procedure Failure to irregularities and losses from acts which Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed quarterly maintain an could have a significant impact on the business and financial reviews effective system ability of the business to operate.
We Additional control processes, including external reviews by a third party, put in of internal place during the year in light of the initial implementation of the new global IS must safeguard business assets and financial ensure accuracy and reliability of records IT system in the Single Ingredients business in Europe controls and financial reporting.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 28
