Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Risk Management & Mitigation Our Approach to Risk Management As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of its day-to-day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we are able to deliver on our strategic priorities of improving operating margin, return on net operating assets and net asset value across the cycle.
the Board reviewed the risk profile of the Our risk assessment and The standard methodology used in risk management process management requires each risk identified to Group and the significant risks with the mitigating factors.
The successful management of risk is essential be assessed and ranked according to a risk to enable the Group to deliver on its strategic matrix which accounts for the likelihood and At the year end meeting in February 2014, priorities.
The risk management and internal impact of each risk.
following the annual review by the Audit control framework define the procedures that The risks identified are assessed for the Committee on the effectiveness of internal manage rather than eliminate the risk facing potential effect on the Companys short controls and a formal assessment of risk, the business and can only provide reasonable and long term value.
The completion of which included a detailed risk assessment and not absolute assurance against material risk registers is iterative and refreshed on by the GMT, the Board completed its annual misstatement or loss.
an ongoing basis as part of our financial assessment of risks for the year ended The risk management framework consists of planning cycle.
The risk registers feed into 31 December 2013.
The key risks affecting risk registers at all organisational levels, which a formal half yearly risk assessment that the Group were identified and agreed with the detail the risk faced by the Group, its operating identifies the principal risks see pages 24 Board, together with the processes for their companies and the central service teams.
and 25 and allows the Board to re-evaluate elimination or mitigation and actions required to The registers identify key operational and the identified strategic risks facing the Group.
reduce the likelihood of each risk to the Group.
financial risks while strategic risks are identified The Board oversees the risk and control More information on risk management and as part of the business planning process, framework of the Group and the Chief internal control is contained within the Audit although it is expected that strategic risks Executive is responsible for implementing Committee Report on pages 55-59. will be included on risk registers.
The risk any necessary improvements with the support registers take into account the significance of of the GMT.
In line with the UK Governance environmental, social and governance matters Code, the Board holds formal risk reviews half of the Company and use a standardised yearly.
At its half year and year end meetings methodology for the assessment of risk.
Our risk assessment and management process Principal Risks & Uncertainties BU & Central Forecast and Planning Process The Board, supported by the Audit Committee All risk registers are re-evaluated and completed as and the GMT, will identify and rank the Principal part of the formal budget process every six months.
Risks based on the assessment of the material Each regional business unit and central function risk register.
The Principal Risks will be disclosed will re-assess with their senior management the with the half and full year results.
Feedback is given risks they are facing and update their risk to the owners of risk registers on any changes registers as required.
Group Material Risk Register BU & Central Risk Register The Material Risk Register is maintained by the GMT From individual risk registers all risks are grouped to and Audit Committee with the promotion, removal produce a Business Unit and Central Risk Summary.
or changing of risks being made as part of their These risk summaries are discussed and assessed assessment of the Risk Summaries and their views by the GMT and Audit Committee.
The GMT of the changes in the strategic risks facing Taylor assessment includes a comparison of the risk Wimpey.
Each Material Risk on the register will be summaries over time, taking into account any ranked and assessed as to its likely impact based changes in the risk impact assessment and their on Taylor Wimpeys standard methodology.
views on the strategic risks facing Taylor Wimpey.
co. uk 23 Strategic Priorities Chief Executives Review continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
We also maintain a Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other non-financial issues that could affect the Group.
More information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
co. uk corporate  cr-reports Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2013 Our ability to build homes is Inability to obtain suitable We have responded to the changes We continue to make significant Government policy and dependent on obtaining the consents, or unforeseen in planning policy by introducing strides in the implementation of planning regulations KPI necessary planning permissions delays, could impact on a comprehensive community led our customer and community The implementation of recent to develop communities which the number or type of planning strategy which improves engagement planning strategy legislation the Localism Act, is dependent on our ability to homes that we are able communications with all parties and have been encouraged by National Planning Policy Framework meet the relevant regulatory to build.
We could also but especially local communities the feedback and successes and the Community Infrastructure and planning requirements.
be required to fund higher therefore enhancing our ability to that we have achieved.
Levy CIL is having a significant than anticipated levels deliver developments that meet Although the new planning system We are participating in the local impact on the planning system of planning obligations, local requirements.
Plans Management Group PMG and with the recovering housing is in place, it is still a relatively or incur additional costs new system with the powers We consult with Government via the HBF to ensure local plans market it could lead to a change in to meet increased agencies and opposition parties are robust and CIL charge government policy.
within the processes still being regulatory requirements.
This could result in on housing policy, both directly and schedules are appropriate.
Responsibility The locally produced CIL indirectly as a member of industry extended timescales for gaining Chief Executive charge schedules could planning consents or increased groups, to highlight potential issues Director of Land increase costs and therefore and to understand any proposed legal challenges.
These factors and Planning impact on the viability of increase uncertainty and increase changes to regulations.
Other members of our senior current developments.
the commercial risk of projects.
management team All of these would have a detrimental impact on Managing Directors of our regional businesses the contribution per plot.
The majority of the homes that A reduction in effective Our local teams select the locations We were amongst the first in the Impact of market we build are sold to individual demand for new homes and home designs that best meet the industry to offer the Government environment on mortgage purchasers who take on significant below normal levels could needs of the local community and backed Help to Buy scheme availability and demand mortgages to finance their negatively impact on both customer demand in the present when it launched in March 2013 Mortgage availability is a key purchases.
A change in business profitability and cash and future.
We evaluate new outlet and we have seen strong constraint on demand in the confidence or employment generation.
This would openings on the basis of local market interest in the scheme amongst UK housing market.
In 2013 opportunities can therefore impact have an adverse effect conditions and regularly review the our customers.
mortgage availability has improved on their demand for housing.
on return on net operating pricing and incentives that we offer.
We launched a new Taylor Wimpey with the return of high loan to In particular the ability of first time assets and net debt.
We work closely with the financial website to provide best in value mortgages initially via the buyers and investors to purchase services industry to ensure customers industry customer experience Government backed Help to Buy homes is impacted by any change receive good advice on the and better insight into the initiative and latterly by general in the mortgage availability at the procurement of mortgage products.
However higher loan to value levels as it there is still uncertainty on how would impact on the level of and what the impact will be deposits required.
when the Help to Buy initiative for new build is removed by the Government.
Responsibility Group Management Team UK Sales and Marketing Director Regional Sales and Marketing Directors Our value cycle requires significant Not having the right teams We closely monitor employee turnover During 2013, we have committed Ability to attract and input from skilled people to deliver in place could lead to delays levels on a monthly basis and conduct to delivering 1.5 days of training retain high-calibre KPI quality homes and communities in build, quality issues, exit interviews, as appropriate, to per salaried employee and employees for our customers.
reduced sales levels, identify any areas for improvement.
extended our development Recruiting employees with poor customer care and initiatives to improve key skills.
The recovery in the housing We benchmark our remuneration to inadequate skills or in insufficient reduced profitability.
This included the introduction market and the recent changes in ensure we are competitive within the numbers, or not being able to retain of a mentoring programme the planning system have meant industry and have succession plans in key staff with the right skills for the for key staff and the that the retention of high-quality place for key roles within the Group.
future, could have a detrimental development of a modular trained employees is key to We hold regular development reviews impact on our business.
training programme for production achieving our strategic goals.
Chief Executive We have also extended our Group HR Director apprentice and graduate Every employee training programmes.
managing people 24 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2013 We maintain regular contact with During 2013 industry volumes In order to optimise our build cost If the availability of Material costs and efficiency, whilst retaining the subcontractors or materials suppliers regarding volume have increased and with the wider availability of requirements and negotiate contract recovery in the UK economy flexibility to commence work on is insufficient to meet subcontractors new sites as planning consents demand this could lead pricing and duration as appropriate.
demand for building materials have The recovery of the housing market to increased build times, also increased.
An example was allow, the vast majority of work As part of our subcontractor selection with an increase in production could carried out on site is performed increased costs and, the shortage of bricks which drove process key competencies are reduce the availability of materials therefore, reduced up cost and lead times for delivery by subcontractors.
considered, particularly in relation to and subcontractors resulting in the profitability.
As production increases, demand health and safety, quality, previous site increase in costs above Lack of skilled subcontractors for subcontractors and materials performance and financial stability.
We have made further progress expectations.
could also result in higher will increase so without the in delivering increased build We also work to address the skills Responsibility levels of waste being introduction of new resources into efficiency by the ongoing review of shortage in the industry through Head of Procurement produced from our sites the housing market, labour and our standard house types apprenticeship schemes and the Regional Commercial Directors and lower build quality.
and selective regional cost Construction Industry Training Board.
Land is the major raw material Purchasing poor-quality Our local land teams select and During 2013 we continued to see Land purchasing for the Group and the limited or mispriced land, or appraise each site.
Our appraisal attractive opportunities in the land The purchase of land of poor quality, availability of good-quality land incorrectly timing land process ensures each project is market and secured land with at too high a price, or incorrect at an attractive price throughout purchases would have a financially viable, consistent with higher than normal returns.
timing of land purchases in relation the housing cycle leads to detrimental impact on our our strategy and appropriately to the economic cycle could impact However as the market recovers significant competition.
authorised, dependent on the future profitability.
we expect to see in the land proposed scale of expenditure.
The purchasing of Purchasing land of the appropriate market an increase in competition, Responsibility insufficient land would quality on attractive terms at the We strive to be the developer of so increasing the demand and the Group Management Team reduce the Groups ability right time in the economic cycle choice by adopting a comprehensive cost of land.
Divisional Managing Directors to actively manage its land will enhance the Groups ability to approach encompassing land Regional Managing Directors portfolio, and create value deliver future profit growth as the vendors, land agents, local councils Regional Land and for shareholders.
Planning Directors Our strategic land teams work Strategic Land alongside regional businesses to Managing Directors identify and secure land with the potential for future development and promote it through the planning system.
The success of our operations In addition to the potentially We have a comprehensive We continue to compare Site and requires a large number of people, tragic personal impact health, safety and environmental HSE favourably to the UK construction KPI product safety ranging from employees and of an accident on site or management system in place, which industry in terms of site safety.
Building sites are inherently subcontractors to customers and after customer completion, is integral to our business.
This is During 2013, we continued our dangerous places.
Unsafe practices their families, who visit our sites there is potential for legal supported by our policies and site safety supervisor training for by our employees or subcontractors each day.
We want all of these proceedings, financial procedures to ensure that we live up groundworkers supervisors.
have the potential to cause death or people to go home at the end of penalties, reputational to our intention of providing a safe and By the end of 2013 over 2,000 serious injury.
the day safe and uninjured.
damage and delay to the healthy working environment and build groundworks supervisors had Responsibility sites progress.
homes that comply with the required received training and a site safety Chief Executive regulations.
We provide extensive supervisory qualification since the Director of Health, training for our subcontractors.
We run initiative began in 2012.
Safety and Environment HSE induction training and poster We ran a series of poster and campaigns as well as providing regular Every employee safety campaigns in 2013 site toolbox talks for operatives on site.
and subcontractor including our Safe Working at All health and safety issues are Height campaign.
We also reviewed by the Group Management introduced our zero tolerance Team and, where appropriate, action policy on safe delivery and vehicle plans are put in place to rectify offloading and this has now been any issues.
integrated into our site procedures and inspection process.
