n o i t a u l a v E s M i i s t i y g l a 22 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk management Risk identi cation, monitoring and reporting framework Risk management is at the heart of our Board business and forms part of business as Sets strategic objectives Approves risk governance structure and sets the risk appetite usual at all levels.
Sets delegation of authority Receives and reviews Group Risk Register Receives and reviews Audit Committee reports on risk TelecityGroup risk strategy governance and internal controls The Board considers that the Group should have a low threshold for risk as the nature of its operations are by fide nition Audit Committee of a high risk nature unless properly mitigated through effective design and high operational standards.
All risks are therefore Considers adequacy of risk management and internal control initially assessed on an unmitigated basis, both in terms of framework probability and magnitude and then the operational and Receives and reviews Group and Country Risk Registers financial controls are applied accordingly to result in a mitigated Receives and reviews reports from the Risk Committee score which is continually monitored.
Receives and reviews reports from independent assurance providers Risks to our employees and other people who enter our sites are identi ed as a separate category and are monitored and reviewed irrespective of mitigation factors.
Risk Committee The importance and probability assessments indicated herein Conducts continual review of risks and risk controls are the original unmitigated gures and should not be taken as Concludes on treatment of risks indicating the actual levels of risk following the operational and Reviews and reports on risk to the Audit Committee financial controls applied by the Group.
and Board How TelecityGroup manages risk Risk Working Group Independent assurance The Groups operations expose it to a variety of risks.
Effective Reviews detailed risks Internal audit management of these risks is essential to the delivery of the from Countries to identify External audit Groups business plans and strategic objectives, as well as common risks Quality standards and ensuring the maximisation of shareholder return.
The Groups Provides practical Business Continuity audit approach is geared towards early identi cation of key risks: assistance to risk Insurer and property mitigating or removing those risks and responding quickly and owners, both in terms risk surveyors effectively should a risk crystallise.
of knowledge and other resources The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, whether they be physical, financial, human or reputational in nature.
Effective risk management assists the Group in delivering its Business unit growth strategy, which aims to deliver controlled, sustainable Management and employees are responsible for the and pro table growth.
identi cation, management and reporting of local risks The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is Maintains local risk registers appropriately managed across the Group.
Implements risk mitigation plans Continuous risk process Board Identi cation sources Business units Health and safety audits Fire safety audits Business continuity audits Property and Equipment risk surveys Risk advisors Company secretarial External advisors a t n i o A n n o i t a c i f i t n e d I Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23 Business risk management The risks contained in the risk registers are rated as to their probability of occurring and potential impact which for Group The responsibility for risk identi cation, analysis, evaluation, purposes are aligned to standard Group values.
Every risk is mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with line management.
assigned to an appropriate senior manager.
All current mitigating This responsibility is discharged under the guidance of the Risk actions are recorded and any further action required is also Committee RC, comprising the executive Directors as well as documented.
The Risk Working Group RWG which comprises other senior managers.
The RC meets regularly to consider all the Heads of Department at Group level assists risk owners with areas of risk to which the Group is exposed and appropriate steps ensuring the resources are available to complete their actions in are taken to reduce or eliminate the risks or mitigate their a timely fashion and to ensure that learnings from each event are potential impact.
The principal tool used by the RC to monitor and report risk is the An analysis of our identi ed principal risks and uncertainties for risk register.
The Group maintains risk registers at a country level 2013, which are largely consistent with prior years, is included on which consolidate to form the Group Risk Register.
This year we are additionally reporting some of Register is submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board for the People risks being monitored.
Principal risks: unmitigated probability & impact A K F H O G I P B N M Q D Strategic risks A Over-supply pricing B Electricity providers unable to match capacity requirements C Lease expiration D Future customer requirements E Lack of suitable acquisitions People risks F Employee health and safety G Contractor customer health and safety Operational risks H New-build contractors cause delays I Infrastructure failure C L E J Environment and regulatory changes J R K Technology changes Financial risks L Electricity pricing volatility M Acquisitions do not deliver expected bene ts N Credit risk Mitigations O Liquidity risk P Interest rate volatility Q Capital risk R Foreign currency risk Lower Higher Unmitigated Probability See p24-25 for more detail And Other Unmitigated Magnitude Lower Higher Controls
