30 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and Aligning risk to our uncertainties that may affect the Group andhighlights the mitigating actions that arebeing taken and the opportunities we aim to capture.
The content of the table, however, strategic objectives is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
The RMG meets on a bi-monthly basis, Enhanced risk Principal risks attended by senior executives from across managementcapability the Group and our external advisers, in Threat of a continued downturn The Board is responsible for maintaining order to provide a further dimension of indemand due to adverse global the Groups risk management and internal insight and validation.
The RMG reports economic factors control systems, with a mandate that includes to the Audit Committee and Risks and dening risk appetite and monitoring risk Disclosures Committee.
Recruitment, development and exposures to ensure that the nature and retentionof talented people extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned The Audit Committee considers risk exposure with its strategic objectives.
During the year, against risk appetite by proling key risks in the Group has made a significant investment respect of their potential impact and likelihood in people and technology as it continues to of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating enhance and develop its risk management and controlling actions that are in place.
We continue to focus on further During the year, the Audit Committee has embedding a culture of risk management reviewed both top down and bottom up risk A major health and safety incident that will contribute towards effective analyses and the Board has undertaken a impacting our customers orcolleagues strategy execution, ensuring both risk and detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite, opportunities are identied and managed both in relation to the Transformation activity todeliver long-term value creation.
Geo-political and regulatory The aim of these activities has resulted in a Combined Assurance Plan, which will enable Our approach to a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal riskmanagement audit and assurance programme.
On an Commodity, currency and interest rate Operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving annual basis, the Board reviews risk appetite environment requires a exible and to ensure it is calibrated to the Groups responsive risk management process that strategic objectives.
can match the pace of change and provide management with a concise view of the The communication of the Thomas Cook The business Transformation fails Groups risk prole at any point in time.
Business System outlines our commitment todeliver against strategic and to dening excellence in governance and operational targets Risk registers are continually updated through adopting principles of risk management an ongoing programme of risk workshops, across the organisation and our processes.
Failure to expand products and services with operational and financial management.
Our vision for the Thomas Cook Business that meet customerdemand Risk is formally assessed as a standing agenda System extends beyond the parameters of item at all monthly segment level board conventional risk management and we are meetings, with key risks being escalated now nalising our plans to ensure principles of Impact of competition upon price and discussed within the Risk Matters Group risk management inuence our approach to andmarketshare RMG.
The RMG and the broader risk leadership, organisational structure, business management framework has been designed policies and performance and operational Failure of IT infrastructure to ensure the scope of coverage includes monitoring, decision making and day-to-day operational, financial and legal risks within a processes are risk proofed and aligned to single framework.
The purpose of the RMG is our profitable Growth Strategy.
We do not see to provide leadership, direction and oversight this is as a one-time transformational activity, with regard to the Groups overall risk but an opportunity for governance and risk framework, appetite, tolerance and relevant management to inuence the culture and risk policies, processes and controls.
ethos of our operations andpeople.
Internal control failure Shortfall in pension funding Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 1 Mitigating actions Opportunity Our exible business model allows us to align our committed capacity to uctuating demand.
We Our focus on delivery of our profitable Growth continue to develop multi-channel distribution and develop strategies to improve product mix, increase Strategy means we are able to respond rapidly to margins and reduce costs.
Active co-ordination of Group-wide risk activity ensures teams have early economic improvement.
indication of emerging risk and by working with risk specialists deliver robust and effective mitigations.
A CEO led review of leadership structure and personnel has resulted in 68 new leaders being appointed The creation of a high-performing actively across the Group reecting a third being recruited externally, a third being retained and a third being engaged team which will consequently lead to promoted internally.
These changes have enabled new strengths and skills to complement existing delivery of the key objectives of the Groups capabilities.
We have made significant investment in our people attracting world-class talent to Transformation, embed the Thomas Cook strengthen our leadership across the Group.
Our high potential talent is identied and nurtured through BusinessSystem that will ultimately improve an Executive Development Programme.
Our reward schemes are constantly evaluated to drive and overallbusiness performance on a reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
As we drive change throughout the organisation, sustainable basis.
our competency development and evaluation processes are focused on encouraging change agility.
Sandra Campopiano, who was appointed as Chief People Officer in September 2013, will drive our 2 PeopleAgenda going forward.
There is a Group-wide structure in place to support management through the provision of staff training, We are committed to identifying initiatives that auditing and specialist advice.
The assessment of health and safety risks is inbuilt into daily management willenhance the safety culture and contribute routines and is monitored by a comprehensive structure of health and safety committees that are in turn tothe continuous improvement of the safety and overseen by a corporate Health, Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight.
well-being of all our customers and colleagues.
Dedicated management teams ensure full compliance with formal regulatory requirements.
We monitor The Group will continue to contribute to the stakeholder and political reactions to ensure we react to emerging political and regulatory developments.
constructive engagement with government agencies and other stakeholders to help create asustainable framework for travel and tourism.
Comprehensive strategy and supporting policies to undertake hedging activity in line with the needs of The Group derives certainty over its exposure to the business and prevailing market conditions.
trends in the commodity or currency markets andinterest rates.
This enables the Group to plan and make informed decisions particularly during periods of high volatility.
We have a fully integrated Transformation plan to align the business to our profitable Growth Strategy.
To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder Delivery of strategic Transformation is led by a high calibre team with a rigorous framework of review, value, balancing the needs of our customers, including Executive Committee meetings, one-to-ones between the Group CEO and her Direct Reports employeesand communities in which we team, Direct Report meetings and Thomas Cook Leadership Council meetings.
workwithour strategic objectives and corporate and social responsibilities.
3 The business has an extensive programme of market and client feedback, including what we believe to Focus on new products and services will be the beone of the largest consumer surveys ever undertaken within the sector.
The business has dedicated primary driver in delivering our profitable management teams focused on enhancing its portfolio of product and services, whilst continuously Growth Strategy.
Management focus upon omni-channel distribution, Group-wide cost reduction programme, Grow market share in historic markets and further collaborative working with key hoteliers and partners, and targeted effort to expand products and services penetration of digital and distribution channels.
The Groups IT strategy, priorities and delivery plans are being reviewed as part of the IT Transformation To set the tone and drive for change as business project being led by the Group Chief Technology Officer.
This review will ensure delivery of IT services and pursues strategy of high tech, high touch technology will be t to meet the needs of rapidly changing technologies, whilst maintaining integrity Transformation: ultimately providing our andperformance of existing systems and operations which are key to the delivery of the Transformation.
customers enhanced products, service and functionality.
Delivering the IT strategy will result ina strengthening of the Groups capabilities whichisalsofocused on making internal .
Detailed policy and procedures spanning across key business functions.
Established business processes Enhanced control environment, minimising with clearly dened transactional controls and independent monitoring activity.
Ongoing monitoring of pension scheme assets and liabilities, independent assessment and corrective Early alert of pension liability ensures timely action action taken by management.
whilst promoting robust financial planning.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
