STaTEMENT OF PRiNCiPal RiSKS 39 aND UNCERTaiNTiES FOR ThE yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 The Group operates in a market and an industry not be regarded as a comprehensive statement which by their nature are subject to a number of all potential risks and uncertainties that may of inherent risks.
The Group is able to mitigate manifest themselves in the future.
Additional risks those risks by adopting different strategies and and uncertainties that are not presently known maintaining a strong system of internal control.
to the Directors, or which they currently deem however, regardless of the approach that is taken, immaterial, could also have an adverse effect the Group has to accept a level of risk in order to on the Groups future operating results, financial generate suitable returns for shareholders.
Details of the Groups risk management This section describes the current risk factors processes are given in the Corporate Governance that are considered by the Board to be material, report on page 59.
The risk environment in which their potential impacts and the factors that mitigate the Group operates does not remain static.
The inherent risk before the operation of nature of risk is that its scope and potential impact control is stated for each risk area together with an will change over time.
As such the list below should indication of the current trend for that risk: Risk description impact Risk mitigation market conditions Inherent risk: Trend: The Groups products are sold to tradesmen and Adverse The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which retail customers for a broad range of end uses in effect on includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, market the built environment.
The performance of the financial forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels market is affected by general economic conditions results of distribution and customer behaviour.
and a number of specific drivers of construction The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system and DIy activity, including housing transactions, net for lead indicators that influence the market for the disposable income, house price inflation, consumer consumption of building materials in the uK.
confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive.
Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon the severity of the change.
historically these have included amending the Groups trading stance, cost reduction, lowering capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Inherent risk: Trend: competitive pressures Market trends, particularly in respect of customers Adverse Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going preferences for purchasing materials through a effect on basis and reported to the Board each month.
range of supply channels and not just through financial The Group is building multi-channel capabilities so they our traditional competitors may affect the Groups results compliment its existing operations and provide its customers performance so making traditional branch based with the opportunity to transact with the Group as they wish.
The Group is leading the industry in terms of the Public sector buying groups could reduce sales development of new and innovative supply solutions, and if public bodies chose to buy direct from the works closely with customers and suppliers on a programme manufacturers.
Disintermediation may become more of a threat The Group continues to refine pricing strategies to ensure if manufacturers decide to deal directly with the it retains competitiveness.
The Groups branding strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
inherent risk: high Medium low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing STRATEGIC REPORT STaTEMENT OF PRiNCiPal RiSKS aND UNCERTaiNTiES Risk description impact Risk mitigation 40 Inherent risk: Trend: information technology The operations of the Group depend on a wide Adverse The strategic demands of the business, the resources available range of complex IT systems, both in terms of effect on to IT, the performance levels of key systems and IT security are the availability of hardware and the operation of financial kept under review by the Executive Committee.
software operating efficiently and effectively.
results Plans that require continual investment in the IT The rapid expansion of the Group together with infrastructure have been approved and are being an increasing demand for IT services, particularly Adverse implemented.
Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going as the Group embraces modern platforms such effect on basis to ensure the resilience of group systems, with as multi-channel, could result in development the Groups escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance programmes being delayed.
reputation issues are resolved at an early stage.
Should the system become unavailable for The Groups three data centres mirror each other with data an extended period either through deliberate act processing switched from one to the other on a regular basis.
or through accidental failure it would impact the An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested regularly businesses ability to trade.
together with the business continuity plan.
Arrangements Increasing levels of cyber crime represent are in place for alternative data sites for both trade and a significant threat to all businesses with the consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
potential to cause loss of system availability or A programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken financial loss.
to ensure the level of control around the IT systems remains robust.
colleague recruitment, retention and succession Inherent risk: Trend: The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably Inability to The Group human Resources Director monitors staff qualified staff is an important driver of the Groups develop and engagement and turnover by job type and reports to the overall performance.
execute our Executive Committee regularly and to the Board annually.
The strength of the Groups customer development Succession plans are established for the most senior proposition is underpinned by the quality of people plans positions within the Group and these are reviewed annually.
Many of them have Our reward and recognition systems are actively managed worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable Competitive to ensure high levels of employee engagement.
time, during which they have gained valuable disadvantage A wide-range of training programmes are in place knowledge and expertise.
to encourage staff development, whilst management Ensuring proper development of employees and development programmes are used to assist those identified the succession for key positions is important if the for more senior positions.
Group is to continue to be successful in the future.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive.
Inherent risk: Trend: Supplier dependency and direct sourcing The Group is the largest customer of many of its Adverse The commercial and financial teams have established strong suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers are large effect on relationships with the Groups key suppliers and work closely enough to cause significant supply difficulties to financial with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
the Group if they become unable to meet their results To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with supply obligations due to either economic or more than one supplier for key products.
Adverse The Group has made a significant investment in its Far Alternative sourcing is available, but the volumes effect on East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing operation required and the time it may take those suppliers the Groups which allows the development of own brand product, which to increase production could result in significant reputation reduces the reliance on branded suppliers.
stock-outs for some considerable time.
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories The Group has become more reliant on producing product, the quality and suitability of that product overseas factories producing product as the before it is shipped to the uK.
Group has rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities.
This has increased the Groups exposure to sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
inherent risk: high Medium low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Risk description impact Risk mitigation 41 Inherent risk: Trend: Defined benefit pension scheme funding All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to The Group is required by law to maintain a Adverse new members.
minimum funding level in relation to its on-going effect on For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation obligations to provide current and future pensions financial has been capped at 3% per annum.
for members of its pension schemes who are condition The schemes investment policy is kept under regular entitled to defined benefits.
review to ensure asset profiles are kept in line with the Some issues could adversely affect the funding profile of liabilities.
of these obligations including poor performance The Group has agreed deficit payment plans which of the pension fund investments and increasing currently require it to pay up to 26m per annum to its longevity of pension scheme members.
The repayment plans will The level of contributions required from the remain in place until the next actuarial valuations, when in Group to meet the benefits promised in the final conjunction with the scheme Trustees they will salary schemes will vary depending upon the be reassessed to take into account the circumstances at funding position of those schemes.
Inherent risk: Trend: Future expansion The Groups strategic plans are predicated on the Adverse Responsibility for identifying opportunities to expand is given continued expansion of its uK branch network.
effect on to each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed large scale acquisitions in existing uK markets financial to those giving the best return on capital.
are unlikely to be available to the Group due to the results The Group has identified a significant number of concerns of the Office of Fair Trading to ensure opportunities for expansion throughout the uK and competitive markets.
Therefore the Group will continues to develop alternative formats that will open up rely on developing small scale opportunities, in additional opportunities in future.
new catchment areas or within existing sites or on As part of its capital management strategy the Group expanding into adjacent markets in which it does has developed plans and instituted a series of metrics that not have a presence.
are designed to provide opportunities to extend sources of The Group also needs to ensure that funding is funding to reduce reliance on one principal source of funding available to support its plans.
The Group is reliant with generally short term durations.
on the bank market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent years and which may continue to contract in the future.
inherent risk: high Medium low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing STRATEGIC REPORT
