FiNaNCial REViEW for its funding by having a diverse mix of funding losses in the statement of other comprehensive 30 sources with a spread of maturities income were reduced by 14.1m.
The combined Seek to maintain a strong balance sheet net deficit of the schemes at 31 December 2012 Accord a high priority to effective cash and was unaffected and there was no impact on working capital management reported cash flows.
Maintain liquidity headroom of over 200m During 2013 the Financial Reporting Review and continue good relationships with the Groups Panel issued guidance in respect of IFRIC 14 bankers Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement.
Manage counterparty risk by raising funds from This caused the Group to obtain further legal a syndicate of lenders, the members of which advice, which has resulted in the Group amending maintain investment grade credit ratings its accounting treatment of pension scheme Operate banking covenants within comfortable schedules of contributions.
In these accounts the margins: Group has included the schedule of contributions The ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA in its calculation of pension scheme liabilities earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and recognised in the balance sheet.
Although the amortisation has to be lower than 3.0x: it was change has resulted in a restatement of the pension 0.7x at the year-end note 36 liabilities and associated deferred tax assets for The number of times adjusted operating profit the Travis Perkins scheme for previous year-ends covers interest charges has to be a least 3.5x net adjustment 2012: 53m: 2011: 58m, the and it was approximately 18x at 31 December change has not impacted upon reported profits or 2013 note 9 cash flows.
Further details are given in note 28. have a conservative hedging policy that reduces the Groups exposure to currency and interest rate Current funding position and contributions fluctuations At 31 December 2013 the combined accounting gross deficit of the Groups defined benefit pension taX StrategY anD taX riSK management schemes, after allowing for the minimum funding The Groups objectives in managing and controlling schedule of contributions, was 71m 2012: its tax affairs and related tax risks are as follows: 126m.
Ensuring compliance with all applicable rules and The Travis Perkins scheme saw a significant regulations under which the Group operates improvement in its funding level as a result of strong Maintaining an open and co-operative relationship asset returns.
At the year-end it was 99% funded with the uK Tax Authorities to reduce its risk profile on a technical provisions basis, giving a gross deficit Tax risks are assessed as part of the formal of 6m 2012: 67m.
Once the scheme is fully governance process and are reviewed by the Chief funded, the Company will have no further obligation Financial Officer and reported to the Groups Audit to make minimum funding contributions unless Committee on a regular basis.
the funding level returns to below 100%, when the Significant tax risks, implications arising from these value of contributions will depend upon the value risks and potential mitigating actions are considered of the deficit, the Companys investment rating and by the Board when strategic decisions are taken: dividend policy.
The tax risks of proposed transactions or new Following the Governments decision to introduce areas of business are fully considered before pension auto-enrolment for employees the Group proceeding commenced its preparations in 2012.
It set up a The Group employs professional tax specialists new master trust and consolidated all its existing to manage tax risks and takes appropriate tax defined contribution schemes into one.
advice from reputable professional firms where it The Groups staging date was 1 March 2013. is considered to be necessary On 1 june auto-enrolment commenced and approximately 9,200 colleagues joined the scheme penSiOnS with only 2% opting out.
adjustments to prior period results The Group contributed 12m 2012: 7m of IAS 19 revised 2011 and the related contributions to its defined contribution scheme consequential amendments have impacted the during the year.
accounting for the Groups defined benefit schemes, by replacing the interest cost and expected return Tony Buffin on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net Chief Financial Officer defined benefit scheme liability.
The comparatives 25 February 2014 for 2012 have been restated with the result that profit before tax decreased by 14.1m and actuarial TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
