42 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STraTeGIC rePOrT What are the risks?
Principal risks Risks TO the Strategy: Execution Risk Governance Having determined the appropriate level of risk for the business, in Successful risk management is critical to the long-term success relation to the potential for reward, the Board then ensures that risks of our business and a key area of management focus.
to the delivery of the strategic objectives are identified, assessed and We continue to strengthen our risk governance framework which managed effectively.
enables us to understand more fully the threats and opportunities in the market place, to match these against the strengths and While the Nomination Committee ensures an optimum balance weaknesses of our Group and to respond accordingly.
Our risk of skills, knowledge and experience required within the executive management process, and the risk software supporting it, helps to management team to deliver the strategy, the Remuneration drive clarity, consistency, transparency and accountability at every Committee ensures the appropriate incentivisation to drive high level of the organisation.
It enables us to understand and manage performance with commensurate control.
Business performance our risk exposures both individually and in aggregate across the relating to the achievement of strategic, operational and financial Group so that, at any given time, we are incurring the right level objectives is reviewed and monitored closely at Business Review and the right type of risk to pursue effectively our strategic goals.
Meetings chaired by the Chief Executive.
We recognise that good risk governance exists when an organisation The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, seeks assurance is intuitively sensitive to changes in its risk landscape and its risk that the risk management process is operating effectively throughout profile and is quick to flex either its strategic objective and or its the organisation and that risks to the delivery of the strategy and risk strategy, as necessary.
We also recognise that this capability long-term viability of the business are being managed effectively such requires active commitment at the top, a strong independent risk that the risk profile is well within the risk capacity of the organisation function, clear, consistent risk methodology and language, good and appropriately aligned with the risk appetite set by the Board.
The information flows and a culture of open and honest communication.
Audit Committee receives this assurance from three lines of defence: Our risk governance framework is set out below and summarises the Management: The Audit Committee invites presentations from various risk related roles, responsibilities and relationships operating management on a routine basis to understand the key risks facing throughout the Group.
their businesses and how these are being addressed.
Group Functions: The Audit Committee receives updates from the Strategic Risk Governance Group Risk Management Committee GRMC and Group Risk Risks OF the Strategy: Direction function on activities relating to risk management as well as updates The Board determines the strategic direction of the business and from the Group functions including their relevant Compliance agrees the nature and extent of the risk it is prepared to take to functions on activities relating to the establishment of control achieve its strategic objectives.
standards and adherence to them.
Effective risk management is dependent on the capability and Internal Audit: The Audit Committee receives assurance from Internal commitment of our people.
The Nomination Committee ensures Audit over the processes, Principal risks and business transformation that an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience exists initiatives most critical to the Groups continued success.
in the Boardroom to understand and manage the risk environment at a strategic level, providing a culture whereby risks and assumptions Operational Risk Governance are rigorously and freely challenged and debated.
Whilst ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, effective day-to-day management of risk sits within the To ensure that the strategic direction chosen by the business business.
Management is responsible for setting the right tone at represents the best of the strategic options open to it, the Board is the top and establishing a culture where employees are expected supported by the Group Strategy function.
This function exists to to be risk aware, control minded and to do the right thing.
facilitate and inform the Boards assessment of the risk landscape and development of potential strategies by which it can drive The GRMC is a Committee of the Group Management Board GMB long-term shareholder value.
On an annual basis the Group Strategy comprising the full membership of the GMB supported by key function develops an in-depth fact base, in a consistent format which members of the risk and control community.
It is chaired by the outlines the market attractiveness, competitive position and financial Chief Executive and meets four times a year.
The GRMC has two performance by Sector and source market.
These are presented to key responsibilities: the Board by the Executive Directors and time set aside in April, July to ensure that an effective risk management process is operating and September to allow full consideration and debate as to the level throughout the organisation and type of risk that the Board finds appropriate in the pursuit of enhanced shareholder value.
Through this process, the strategic to be involved actively in identifying, assessing and managing those options and the trade-offs between risk and reward are debated risks most significant to the long-term value of the organisation.
upfront and through ongoing review and refinement are pulled To discharge the first of these responsibilities the GRMC selects key progressively into the close weave of strategic intent that best fits business areas and Group functions for scrutiny and invites the MDs the business, its culture, capabilities and resource.
The strategy, and their Risk Champions individuals chosen by the MDs to champion once fully defined, considered and approved by the Board, is then the process in their respective business areas to discuss how risk is incorporated into the Groups five year roadmap and helps to define managed risk process and the risks identified bottom up as a result and communicate the risk appetite and expectations of the risk content.
It also receives regular presentations from the Director organisation both internally and externally.
of Group Audit Services & Risk on the ongoing level of engagement and effectiveness of each Sector Source Market in relation to the risk management process, specific areas of strength and weakness by individual business area and an analysis of the bottom up risks reported, along with any developing themes.
indd 42 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGiC REpORT 43 BuSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION The majority of GRMC time however is reserved for the TOpiCS pRESENTED AND DEBATED identification, assessment and management of Principal risks to the AT ThE GRMC DuRiNG ThE yEAR Group strategy.
Individual members of the GRMC are accountable for specific Principal risks and for the quality of Risk & Control Summaries which set out the key controls on which reliance is ERM Framework & Maturity 27% placed and the further actions that are required, as necessary, to Geopolitical Environment 4% achieve targeted risk level.
These risks, controls and targets are Industry Regulations 8% Internal controls 19% reviewed and approved at the GRMC and then communicated Policies 8% top down to the wider business to ensure that risks are managed Projects 19% within these levels through the organisation.
Strategy 15% Recognising the unpredictability and speed at which risks can materialise into issues risk velocity and the impact this can have on the Group, the GRMC has developed tailored response plans for each of the Groups key risks.
Principal risk owners within the GRMC are accountable for developing Key Risk Indicators, as appropriate to increase the organisations awareness and sensitivity to movements in its risk landscape, thereby helping to extend its risk horizon and enhance its risk response capability.
The GRMC also recognises the natural cycle of risk exposure, the interaction of individual risks and Risk Governance Framework the extent to which individual risks may be offset through natural hedging or amplified through specific risk combinations.
Feedback to the Board BOARD DiRECTiON The Director of Group Audit Services & Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee and the Board on how risk is being managed across the organisation risk process and the Executive Directors provide an update to the Board twice a year on the key risks under a b c consideration risk content.
This feedback is reviewed and debated Nomination Remuneration Audit by the Board to ensure that it fits within its overall risk appetite.
Committee Committee Committee Where there is misalignment between the risk profile and the risk appetite i. e. management are taking too much or too little risk relative to the strategic objectives the Board seeks to ensure that appropriate corrective action is being taken.
During the year the GROup MANAGEMENT BOARD Board reviewed the completeness of the Principal risks, debated risk appetite and managements alignment with it and raised issues relating to the transparency and consistency of bottom up risks reported.
Additional sub committees of the GMB a b c d The following committees form part of the overall risk governance Group Risk Capability Investment Projects Management framework: Committee Committee Committee Committee The Capability Committee supports the risk governance process by assessing the Groups current capability and competence against its future needs in the achievement of its strategic objectives.
The investment Committee ensures that risk and reward is closely scrutinised prior to any acquisitions, capital expenditure and major MANAGEMENT ExECuTiON investments.
The projects Committee oversees cross-Group projects and ensures that interdependencies and risks both upside and downside are understood fully and guidance provided, as appropriate.
GROup FuNCTiONS OvERSiGhT Risk Management process The Group Risk function supports the risk management process by providing guidance, support and challenge to management whilst acting as the central point for co-ordinating, monitoring and reporting on risk across the Group.
The Group Risk function applies a consistent risk methodology across all key areas of the business.
This is underpinned by risk and GROup AuDiT SERviCES iNDEpENDENT ASSuRANCE control software implemented during FY12 which has reinforced clarity of language, visibility of risks, controls and actions and accountability of ownership.
indd 43 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 3RD liNE 2ND liNE 1ST liNE OpERATiONAl STRATEGiC OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE GOvERNANCE GOvERNANCE TOMORROw 44 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STraTeGIC rePOrT What are the risks?
Principal risks continued Risk Identification: On a quarterly basis, line management closest to Risk Response: the risks identify the gross risks relevant to the pursuit of strategy Mitigating Controls: For the Principal Risks reviewed and monitored within their business area in the context of: by the GRMC and the next layer of risks reviewed and monitored longer-term strategic and emerging threats: at Sector Source Market level the controls on which reliance is placed are formally documented by management, as required.
These medium-term challenges associated with business change controls are articulated in detail control type, control owner, control programmes: operators, control frequency in the Risk & Control Summaries and shorter-term risks triggered by changes in the external and are subject to independent validation by Internal Audit, the results regulatory environment: and of which are reported directly both to the Audit Committee and to shorter-term risks in relation to internal operations and control.
Mitigating Actions: Where mitigating actions are required these Risk Descriptions: The nature of the risk is articulated, including the are also articulated in detail action plan owner, action task owners, possible causal factors that may give rise to the risk materialising.
initial and revised delivery dates and then tracked by the GRMC or This allows the Sectors Source Markets and the Group to assess the Sector Source Market, as appropriate depending on the significance interaction of risks and potential triggering events and or aggregated of the risk.
impacts before developing appropriate mitigation strategies to target causes and or consequences.
Review and Approval: It is the responsibility of Sector and Source Market Boards across the Group and senior management teams Risk Assessment: Risks are assessed in relation to potential impact and beneath them to review and agree the risk profile for their area of likelihood as measured against predefined financial and non-financial responsibility, including signing off on the effectiveness of controls criteria relevant to the specific business area.
The current net risk and the progression of action plans within agreed delivery timescales.
position which takes into account existing controls is then considered in relation to the risk target.
Where the overall current risk profile is The Group Risk function consolidates the Sector Source Market considered too high, relative to the aggregated appetite of the Group, risk registers and reports this bottom-up to the GRMC for review management identify mitigating actions to achieve the target planned alongside the Groups Principal risks.
New risks are added to the risk position.
Where the risk profile is too low, management can afford Group Risk Profile if deemed to be of a significant nature so that to take more risk.
the ongoing status and the progression of key action plans can be managed in line with the Groups targets and expectations.
Risk landscape ExTERNAl Less Predictable Controllable uNDERSTAND MARkET ADApT STRATEGy GlOBAl Trade Supplier Sustainable CONSuMER FiNANCiAl Relations Risk Development pREFERENCES FACTORS & DESiRES REGulATORy ENviRONMENT CONSuMER Big Data Tax DEMAND Anti-Bribery & Corruption Digital Devices pOliTiCAl vOlATiliTy NATuRAl CATASTROphE Unique Fuel & FX Airline NEw MARkETS, volatility & Diverse Regulatory ACquiSiTiONS & Product iNvESTMENTS Anti-Money STRATEGiC ExTERNAl & laundering & EMERGiNG REGulATORy Customer Multi-Channel New Engagement Distribution Concepts & Retention ThE ENTERpRiSE Liquidity Controlled & Cash Distribution H&S Management iNTERNAl BuSiNESS OpERATiONS ChANGE TAlENT People Financial MANAGEMENT Change Control & Reporting Data Security Business BuSiNESS Transformation iMpROvEMENT Business Interruption OppORTuNiTiES Recruitment Insightful Continuity & Retention MI Digital Organisational Economies Staff Workplace Competence Restructure of Scale Engagement & Transition & Capability Empowerment CONTROl & MONiTOR MANAGE ChANGE iNTERNAl More Predictable Controllable Principal risks Other risks 7 Risk v47 copy.
indd 44 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TODAy TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGiC REpORT 45 BuSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION Principal risk table RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON STRATEGiC CONSuMER CONTExT GROup-wiDE pREFERENCES Price, product and digital solutions play Ongoing & DESiRES a key part in the consumers decisionMonitoring closely changes in consumer preferences and sentiment within the wider making process.
Consumers are context of our industry and the different sources of influence on our customers increasingly turning online to research spending.
STRATEGiC and book holidays and are moving DRivERS Developing new concepts and services which are unique, diverse and value adding.
towards booking nearer the time of travel.
Maintaining our focus on being an online driven business, and tracking the gap both RiSk upside and downside between our offer and the competitions to inform effective We do not identify or respond quickly decision-making.
enough to changes in consumer preferences and do not keep up with Progress CONTENT latest technological developments.
Established a dedicated Group Digital Solutions PMO to lead IT innovation across the Group, identify participation in emerging technologies and drive market intelligence.
pOTENTiAl iMpACT Agreed funding to test and develop important new technologies to ensure our ongoing Our market positions come under relevance to consumers.
pressure resulting in lower short to BRANDS & medium-term growth rates and DiSTRiBuTiON Planned reduced margins.
Exploring how Big Data customer, social and performance data combined might AppETiTE inform our strategy and enable us to personalise our interactions with our customers.
We are eager to be innovative and TOuR OpERATOR consider all investment options to TEChNOlOGy Ongoing ensure we remain relevant to our consumer preferences & desires.
Leveraging our Mainstream structure to enhance the portfolio of unique and exclusive products designed to increase our competitive advantage.
NET RiSk MOvEMENT Monitoring closely our concept portfolio and developing new hotel concepts and GROwTh adapting these, where appropriate, for our different source markets.
& SCAlE Following our results it is obvious that Developing the strong brand portfolio of tailor-made products and services within our strategy of unique holidays sold our Specialist businesses and reviewing opportunities to extend it into new markets.
directly to our customers is the right Investing in online platforms and enhancing booking and search functionality in order one.
As the business continues its move to provide our customers with easy to access inspirational content whilst consolidating pEOplE towards a more online future, and while finance and reservation systems to leverage scale across multiple source markets.
we efficiently manage our costs, we Focusing on being an online-driven business including our participation in social media continue to build upon the foundations according to the preferences of our customers, encompassing the entire customer of a business set for sustainable growth.
Our colleagues within the business care journey from dreaming and planning through to experiencing and sharing.
deeply about the customer experience Progress and everything we do is built around Increased the volume of unique holidays and selling to our customers through multiple enhancing it at every level, through channels in a number of our key source markets thereby enhancing our customer every stage of the customer journey, booking experience.
from dreaming of a holiday to sharing it with family and friends once they Developed and launched a pan-Mainstream all-inclusive 3 concept SuneoClub have returned home.
featuring a series of bright, modern and friendly three star all-inclusive hotels offering new standards of quality and affordability for our customers.
launched new services and tailor-made offerings within our Specialist businesses providing a seamless service which in turn is driving considerable growth.
Created a Mainstream Distribution & Online team providing a clear focus, drive and support to all Mainstream Source Markets through sharing of best practice on all digital matters, retail operations, CRM and ancillaries, providing an immediate improvement to the customer experience.
launched the My Thomson Digital Assistant in our uK source market with plans to extend it out to our other source markets to help our customers plan their holidays and explore the destination before they arrive.
Started the transformation of the traditional travel agency into the next-generation retail concept store, combining the knowledge and expertise of our people with the latest technology as we move into a fully multi-channel world.
ONliNE ACCOMMODATiON Ongoing Reviewing closely our offer to ensure that we have a wide variety of product, in terms of quality, destination and budget, that our content is rich and inspiring and that it translates well digitally in order to attract and retain our diversified customer base.
Continuing to update and upgrade IT platforms to ensure our Wholesaler and OTA businesses are supported by effective and efficient systems improving the service delivery to our global customers that underpins our growth strategy.
Progress Delivered mobile optimised websites for lateRooms, AsiaRooms and MalaPronta and have developed mobile apps for AsiaRooms and lateRooms.
See Our five strategic drivers page 16 7 Risk v48 copy.
indd 45 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 46 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON STRATEGiC BuSiNESS CONTExT GROup-wiDE iMpROvEMENT The Group is heavily reliant on legacy Ongoing OppORTuNiTiES systems, processes and structures which, Driving stronger and more cost-effective relationships with key service providers in some cases, are outdated, complex and through better co-ordination of key procurement activities.
STRATEGiC Strengthening our internal control environment through the rollout of the COSO control RiSk DRivERS framework across Financial Reporting, Compliance and Operational categories of control We do not address successfully the legacy through the establishment of Group Finance, legal & Regulatory and IT Compliance.
inefficiencies and complexities of our Implementing business continuity management in our various businesses in order existing infrastructure.
to build resilience into our operations.
pOTENTiAl iMpACT Progress CONTENT We incur higher costs due to inefficiencies, Restructured the Group CIO function to provide the governance framework required impacting our ability to optimise business to deliver technology innovation.
performance and provide a value-added Instigated a review of project management competence capability and the adequacy service to our consumers.
effectiveness of central oversight control in order to ensure that the governance in place BRANDS & AppETiTE adequately reflects the current and future transformation needs of the organisation.
DiSTRiBuTiON We are eager to be innovative and Established Compliance Steering Group to ensure better understanding and consider all options that might strengthen management of interrelationship of risks and controls between COSO categories.
our infrastructure and drive out cost and complexity.
TOuR OpERATOR TEChNOlOGy Ongoing NET RiSk MOvEMENT Reviewing areas where the efficiency of our operations can be further improved and costs reduced without compromising on customer experience.
We have been successful in implementing Increasing controlled distribution thereby reducing third party costs and enabling our Group-wide business improvement GROwTh a direct relationship with our customers.
The total savings & SCAlE Upgrading our web front-end reservation and finance systems across all source markets made this year equates to 46m, an with plans progressing well in our key source markets such as Germany and the uK.
acceleration of the target outlined at the start of year.
These cost savings Progress were primarily driven by back office Focused on exploiting our Mainstream structure to leverage scale in order to grow and pEOplE restructuring and IT platform consolidate our leading position within Europe and to ensure we are well placed to offset replacement across a number any adverse movement in some of our other Principal Risks.
Established the Mainstream Purchasing Team to act globally and focus on purchasing We are an online business but we the right product at the right price to provide best value for money.
continue to drive further enhancements Established a Modern Destination Services Board with senior executives from both our through technologies that amplify the Mainstream and Specialist Destination Services division providing excursions, transfers customer experience at the front-end and and other tailored products creating a strong and mutually beneficial relationship and drive further efficiencies in the back-end added value to the consumer.
Commenced flying the Boeing 787 Dreamliner on long-haul routes vastly improving We are pleased to say that we were the first business in the UK to take delivery our customers flying experience whilst driving down costs and improving airline and environmental efficiencies.
of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner that has exceeded customer and our own Committed to the purchase of 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft to replace the 757 fleet and expectations in its first few months of older 737s across our airlines to operate our short and medium-haul flights, improving operation.
In May we committed to cost efficiency through simplifying operational training and maintenance.
purchasing 60 new Boeing 737 MAX Restructured our Specialist and Activity Sector resulting in a simplified management aircraft and secured the option and right structure, increased sharing of expertise and knowledge across divisions, improved to purchase another 90 on the same operational efficiency and a platform for future growth.
The deal will enhance our unique Committed to combining the uK Finance Shared Service Centre with the existing offering, replace older aircraft and help German Finance Shared Service Centre in order to create one transactional back office secure the future of our six airlines.
Finance team working from one common platform enabling us to be more operationally efficient and effective.
ONliNE ACCOMMODATiON Ongoing Continuing our IT transformation programme in our Wholesaler and OTA businesses to improve overall competitiveness and facilitate the rapid integration of new brands whether acquired or organically developed.
Progressing our strategy of consolidating our market-leading position by further expanding in existing destinations whilst focusing on our development in both new source markets as well as new destinations.
Planned Planning to drive superior growth by developing new distribution channels and new customer segments in this market.
indd 46 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGiC REpORT 47 BuSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON STRATEGiC NEw MARkETS, CONTExT GROup-wiDE ACquiSiTiONS & The Group continues to look into new Progress iNvESTMENTS markets as the traditional Mainstream Established a dedicated Group-wide Mergers & Acquisitions team to help identify and markets mature.
Specialist businesses, optimise the best growth opportunities available across the Group through M&A activity.
online accommodation and new markets STRATEGiC Created a New Markets division focusing specifically on merger, acquisition and joint represent a significant opportunity to DRivERS venture opportunities in emerging economies in order to optimise our investments and participate in longer-term travel growth to evaluate where existing Group assets can be best leveraged into new markets.
trends and have higher growth potential.
TOuR OpERATOR RiSk We do not maximise potential growth Ongoing opportunities to deliver results in New CONTENT Developing and delivering the participation strategy for both outbound and domestic Markets due to lack of investment tour operations in new markets, to create long-term growth and improved shareholder appetite, short termism and difficulty in value.
leveraging Group assets and integrating Progress operations and systems.
BRANDS & Established a presence for TuI Travel in the BRIC economies of Brazil, Russia, India pOTENTiAl iMpACT DiSTRiBuTiON and China with focus now switched to assessing the next set of new frontier markets.
Our potential long-term growth rates and margins are impacted, with cash flows Planned lower than anticipated and significant Planning to expand further our long established tour operator, TuI India now the absorption of resource.
preferred agent for the promotion and sales of Emirates Holidays in India to cater TEChNOlOGy for the domestic and outbound consumer through a combination of own retail travel AppETiTE agencies, an extensive B2B network and online.
We are willing to consider all markets, acquisitions and investments to drive ONliNE ACCOMMODATiON long-term sustainable growth value.
GROwTh Progress & SCAlE Developed a clear strategy for targeting emerging markets, in particular in Africa, NET RiSk MOvEMENT Asia and latin America.
AsiaRooms recognised as the best OTA in Asia Pacific due to our excellence in online Acquisitions were made in the year for experience and customer service.
a total investment value of 30m in pEOplE order to expand business operations in Increased our Brazilian Accommodation OTA MalaPronta hotel portfolio in the past line with the Groups growth strategy.
year across the main domestic destinations of Sao Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro and Curitiba.
Businesses acquired during the year primarily related to the 50.1% of TUI Infotec GmbH that the Group did not already own and 100% of the share capital of JBS Group, Isango!
Business improvement New Markets, Acquisitions opportunities & investments Committed to purchase AsiaRooms recognised as 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft best OTA in Asia Pacific, to replace the 757 fleet through online experience and customer service See Our five strategic drivers page 16 7 Risk v48 copy.
indd 47 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 48 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON OpERATiONAl GlOBAl CONTExT GROup-wiDE FiNANCiAl The cross-border nature of trading Ongoing FACTORS exposes our business to fluctuations in Ensuring that hedging cover for fuel and foreign currency is taken out ahead of source exchange rates and complex tax laws.
market customer booking profiles to provide certainty of input costs when planning In addition a significant proportion of pricing and capacity.
STRATEGiC operating expenses are in relation to DRivERS Tracking the foreign exchange and fuel markets to ensure the most up-to-date market aircraft fuel which is also subject to intelligence and the ongoing appropriateness of our hedging policies.
Geo-political events continue to highlight the inherent risks within travel Maintaining high-quality relationships with tax authorities through regular and tourism, whilst the ongoing banking communication keeping them informed of the commercial reality of our business sector recovery and the introduction operations.
GROwTh of Basel III have the potential to impact Monitoring our funding and liquidity position to ensure key facilities are refinanced well & SCAlE long-term financing availability.
We recognise the impact that different aspects of our operations can have on our access to financial facilities and seek to ensure that these are appropriately RiSk understood and controlled.
We do not manage adequately the volatility of exchange rates and fuel prices Maintaining high-quality relationships with the Groups key financiers and monitoring or other rising input costs: we face an compliance with the covenants contained within our financing facilities.
increase in tax authorities taking a more Progress strident tax approach in order to fund Secured a 300m medium-term bank credit facility available until April 2016 giving local fiscal deficits: and difficulties in greater flexibility in our financing and access to further funds as required.
This reflects securing additional facilities, if needed, the banks ongoing confidence in our strategy, business model and operational and at a reasonable cost.
pOTENTiAl iMpACT Raised over 400m of long-term financing for nine aircraft scheduled for delivery during We suffer increased costs which reduce FY14.
This financing was raised on competitive terms through a combination of finance demand resulting in lower revenue and or leasing and sale and leaseback.
We face a negative impact on cash flow, lengthy tax litigation processes and possible reduction in Groups after-tax earnings.
AppETiTE We are eager to ensure as stable and as predictable an environment as possible in relation to FX & fuel, tax, funding and liquidity.
NET RiSk MOvEMENT We remain satisfied with our funding and liquidity position.
We have three main sources of long-term debt funding as at 9 December 2013 these include the external bank revolving credit facilities totalling 1,120m which mature in June 2015, a 350m convertible bond due October 2014 and a 400m convertible bond due April 2017.
The external bank revolving facilities are used to manage the seasonality of the Groups cash flows and liquidity.
We have hedged the majority of our fuel and currency requirements for the seasons currently on sale, which gives us certainty of costs when planning capacity and pricing.
indd 48 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGiC REpORT 49 BuSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON OpERATiONAl CONSuMER CONTExT GROup-wiDE DEMAND Spending on travel and tourism is Ongoing discretionary and price sensitive.
The Maintaining our focus on creating lifetime relationships with our customers through economic outlook remains uncertain with great service and fantastic lifetime experiences.
STRATEGiC different source markets at different DRivERS points in the recovery cycle.
Consumers TOuR OpERATOR are also waiting longer to book their trips Ongoing in order to assess their financial situation.
Assessing our product offering in the context of the confidence levels and cost of living RiSk pressures being experienced by our customers.
We do not respond successfully to CONTENT Exploiting the flexibility and resilience of our business model and the functionality of changes in consumer demand and or the our sophisticated capacity and yield management systems in order to drive margins consumer preference for late booking.
and profits growth by ensuring that capacity is aligned very closely to forecasts.
pOTENTiAl iMpACT Progress Our short-term growth rates and margins BRANDS & Developed and launched a pan-Mainstream all-inclusive 3 concept SuneoClub are lower than anticipated.
DiSTRiBuTiON featuring a series of bright, modern and friendly all-inclusive hotels offering new AppETiTE standards of quality and affordability.
We are willing to consider all options Established the Mainstream Purchasing Team to act globally and focus on purchasing to secure and improve the flexibility, the right product at the right price to provide direct value to our customers and benefit resilience and attractiveness of our TEChNOlOGy hoteliers.
ONliNE ACCOMMODATiON NET RiSk MOvEMENT Ongoing Continuing to exploit our model which involves minimum commitment risk and operates GROwTh The travel market continues to be extremely well in relation to the online lates market.
& SCAlE driven by high growth in online bookings and, while the uncertain economic environment has had an effect on consumer travel spending habits, pEOplE demand for leisure travel remains strong.
Overall, we are pleased with trading at the start of our new financial year.
Winter 2013 14 performance is in line with expectations with 60% of the programme sold.
For Summer 2014, we are encouraged by early trading despite strong comparatives.
In particular, we continue to see strong demand for our unique holidays.
Global Financial Consumer Factors Demand Secured a 300m SuneoClub the new medium-term credit concept launched, focusing facility, ensuring greater on quality simultaneous financial flexibility and to affordability for the further funds, as required consumer See Our five strategic drivers page 16 7 Risk v48 copy.
indd 49 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 50 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON OpERATiONAl TAlENT CONTExT GROup-wiDE MANAGEMENT The Groups success depends on its ability Ongoing to retain key management and it relies on Assessing our organisational competence and capability against that required to maximise having good relations with its colleagues.
current and future shareholder value.
STRATEGiC RiSk DRivERS Ensuring succession plans are in place for all identified business critical roles, in particular We are unable to attract and retain talent, emergency successors for all Source Market and Sector Board roles, and that these plans build future leadership capability and are reviewed every six months.
maintain the commitment and trust of using our Group-wide leadership framework including our Your voice survey to engage our employees.
and empower people whilst delivering results and managing performance.
TEChNOlOGy pOTENTiAl iMpACT Building our pipeline of leadership talent through our International Graduate leadership We do not maximise on our operating Programme which attracts, develops and retains high quality graduates to become our results and financial performance.
Driving high performance and engagement through our performance review, development AppETiTE plans and career planning process.
pEOplE We are willing to invest in the appropriate Extending our risk & control & doing the right thing objectives down through the level of competence and capability to organisation as part of developing a strong culture of effective risk governance.
drive the future success of our business.
Extending competency testing of our key finance management in order to assess the NET RiSk MOvEMENT adequacy of the skill-set of individual finance managers as well as the competency of the finance community within key businesses and across the Group as a whole.
Our colleagues are the true driver of the Focusing on digitally enabling our people in support of our commitment to be an online business.
Their commitment, endeavour driven company.
and passion to deliver incredible travel Progress experiences for our customers is proven Invested in a number of online tools to support the creation of a Digital Workplace so our in the exceptional results we have people can build on their knowledge and move towards a transformation in learning and announced this financial year.
Introduced a suite of Global High Potential learning & Development programmes designed for our talent in the early stages of their careers or who have been identified as successors to commercial senior leadership roles in the future.
Built on the successful launch of our Finance Academy with a number of modules designed to drive up levels of financial maturity within our various businesses for both financial and non-financial employees.
RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON OpERATiONAl pOliTiCAl CONTExT GROup-wiDE vOlATiliTy, Providers of holiday and travel services are Ongoing NATuRAl exposed to the inherent risk of domestic Maintaining a balanced destination mix to minimise concentration and having flexible CATASTROphES and or international incidents affecting supplier agreements in order to enable capacity to be switched as required.
AND OuTBREAkS some countries destinations within their Leveraging our unique products and our strong brand to drive earlier booking, giving operations.
During the summer months we us more time to react to external events.
faced disruption in both Turkey and Egypt.
STRATEGiC Reviewing trading outlooks destination by destination with the management team RiSk DRivERS of each business area during our regular business review meetings and developing We are not able to respond efficiently operational contingency as appropriate.
and effectively to large scale events.
Maintaining strong relationships with local tourism bodies, travel and aviation industry pOTENTiAl iMpACT associations, actively monitoring the political situation in volatile destinations and acting We suffer significant operational disruption upon security intelligence advice as it is received.
CONTENT in our Source Markets and destinations Minimising the impact of negative events in our source markets and destinations by leading to significant losses holiday ensuring the effective execution of our established incident management and emergency cancellations, repatriation of customers response plans and the deployment of our experienced leadership teams to support and and a general decline in consumer demand repatriate stranded customers.
and increase in our insurance premiums.
GROwTh Tracking hotel commitments and prepayments on a timely and sufficiently granular & SCAlE AppETiTE basis to manage our financial exposure to justifiable levels.
We are willing to consider all options to Promoting the benefits of travelling with a recognised and leading tour operator secure and improve the flexibility and to increase consumer confidence and peace of mind.
resilience of our business model in order to Progress withstand ad-hoc shocks to our operations.
Developed a standard set of terms and conditions for our Mainstream accommodation contracts from Summer 2014 with clauses that contain termination rights following force NET RiSk MOvEMENT majeure or Euro break-up.
We operate in a market segment that, as a matter of course, has to weather geo-political events.
As a result, it is vital that we have a strong and resilient business model that enables us to deliver on our strategy, which in turn drives long-term sustainable growth and increased shareholder returns.
indd 50 18 12 2013 10:58 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGiC REpORT 51 BuSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION RiSk NATuRE AND CuRRENT CATEGORy ExTENT OF RiSk MiTiGATiON COMpliANCE REGulATORy CONTExT GROup-wiDE ENviRONMENT Industries in which the Group operates Ongoing are highly regulated, particularly in Addressing issues affecting the industry and our customers through our political and relation to consumer protection, aviation regulatory affairs team, who engage with regulators and governments to help ensure STRATEGiC and the environment.
legislation that is fit for purpose, properly balances the interests of industry and DRivERS RiSk consumers and treats all industry players fairly.
We do not establish an effective system Lobbying for greater clarity and simplification of the Package Travel Directive to ensure of internal control to ensure we operate a level playing field across the industry for all those involved in putting together more in compliance with all legal and regulatory than one element of a holiday flight, transportation, accommodation, excursions etc.. requirements.
CONTENT Maintaining a comprehensive Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC training programme across the Group in order to raise awareness of the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 pOTENTiAl iMpACT in order to prevent bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
We suffer negative impact which damages our reputation, results in reduced revenue Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the ABC procedures and measures and or higher input costs.
established, including self-certification twice a year by all of our businesses across the GROwTh Group.
& SCAlE AppETiTE Progress We are committed fully to being a good corporate citizen in all of the countries Worked with other industry stakeholders to develop a counter proposal to the recent in which we operate.
ruling by the European Court in relation to Air Passenger Rights which we believe will both reduce our exposure and also safeguard the longer-term interests of our customers.
NET RiSk MOvEMENT Reviewed the effectiveness of our flight planning and established appropriate monitoring controls for on-time performance as a way of both improving customer service and minimising the impact of the recent ruling by the European Court.
The last 12 months have seen significant developments at the European level Commenced lobbying to simplify the Package Travel Directive in order to make it easier with the Commission proposing new to understand for both the customer and the industry.
legislation in the area of Air Passenger Committed to developing more sustainable holidays and to reducing the environmental Rights and bringing forward proposals impact at each stage of our customers journey.
Established a dedicated sustainable for reform of the Package Travel development team to support the Group and work closely with business management Directive.
We have engaged consistently see our Sustainable Development section on page 26. with the Commission as they have Achieved our airline carbon reduction target of 9% 2008-2014 one year ahead of developed these proposals and will schedule through a mixture of operational efficiencies, fuel conservation activities, engage over the coming 12 months capacity amendments and airline enhancements.
with the European Parliament and the Invested significantly in cutting edge aviation technology including the Boeing 787 Council of Ministers as they come to Dreamliner aircraft, which are forecast to emit 20% less CO2 per passenger than consider the suggested reforms in detail.
comparable aircraft today, the new innovative Split Scimitar Winglets, reducing fuel TUI Travel is a truly worldwide burn by an additional 2%, and committed to purchasing 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, organisation and we are committed with improved fuel-efficiency 2018 delivery.
to operating our business in a Recognised in the top tier of the FTSE 350 for carbon reporting following the sustainable manner.
We have a introduction of uK legislation on carbon reporting for the largest uK companies.
We three-year Sustainable Holidays Plan, are a third more fuel and carbon efficient than the average scheduled carrier in Europe launched in 2012, which sets out four and are now calling for greater transparency and reporting of consistent metrics across overarching goals with 20 measurable all airlines so that the government can consider adjusting its taxes fairly and and challenging commitments to proportionately.
Implemented a web-based sustainability data software solution to further improve data accuracy, increase data collection frequency and provide reporting that supports advanced monitoring and targeting of further efficiency opportunities.
Established a Group Health & Safety Compliance function to oversee and ensure that the Health & Safety Management Systems employed by our businesses are compliant with Group Policy and that there is appropriate protection in place for both our customers and our colleagues.
Established Group legal & Regulatory Compliance function to improve our central oversight, understanding and control of local practices in relation to ABC, Anti-Money laundering, Know Your Supplier, Know Your Customer and Competition law.
used the newly established Group IT Compliance function to support the Group legal & Regulatory Compliance function by improving central oversight, understanding and control relating to PCI DSS and data protection.
Launched our Supplier Code of Conduct available in 11 languages which is the first time a set of social and ethical values has been given to our suppliers.
This plays an important role in our vision, reflecting our value of responsible leadership in the travel industry.
The ordering does not seek to provide an indication of the relative significance of the risks nor is it a complete list of all the risks to which the Group is exposed.
