Directors Report 2 Tullows Investor Relations team was again recognised for their strong performance during the year.
In the 2013 Thomson Extel survey, the Investor Relations department SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS was ranked fourth out of 69 Oil and Gas companies in As at 11 February 2014, the Company had been Europe with senior members of the team being ranked notified in accordance with the requirements first and second out of 125 European Investor Relations of section 5.1.
2 of the UK Listing Authoritys oil and gas professionals.
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings being 3% or more In October 2013, Tullow issued its first Corporate Bond.
in the Companys ordinary share capital.
After roadshowing in the UK and the US, in 2014 Tullow will continue to engage with its new bond investors through a Number of % of issued number of High Yield conferences throughout the year.
Shareholder shares capital BlackRock Inc 90,154,669 9.91% Liquidity risk management and going concern Genesis Asset The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Managers, LLP 72,871,524 8.01% Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run IFG International Trust for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes Company Limited 38,960,366 4.28% in commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups producing assets and delays to development Following requests under section 793 of the Companies projects.
In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, Act 2006, the Company understands that the percentage portfolio management opportunities are reviewed potentially of its issued share capital held by BlackRock Inc has to enhance the financial capacity and flexibility of the Group.
reduced to 7.34% and that held by Genesis Asset The Groups forecasts, taking into account reasonably Managers, LLP is broadly unchanged at 8.02%.
possible changes as described above, show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have significant financial headroom for the 12 months from Shareholder analysis by geography the date of approval of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
ROW 7% UK 2014 principal financial risks and uncertainties 53% The principal financial risks to performance identified North America for 2014 are: 25% Continued delivery of financial strategy to maintain Europe appropriate liquidity: 15% Ensuring cost and capital discipline and effective supply chain management: Oil price and overall market volatility: and Delivery of planned portfolio activity.
Shareholder analysis by category Events since year-end Miscellaneous Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued its Institutional 3% 89% exploration and appraisal, development and portfolio Non management activities.
institutional 8% In January 2014, Tullow announced oil discoveries at the Amosing-1 and Ewoi-1 exploration wells in Block 10BB onshore northern Kenya.
As a result of these latest successes, Tullow updated its estimate of discovered resources in this basin to over 600 mmbo gross.
On 5 February 2014 a Memorandum of Understanding Shareholder analysis by investment style was signed between the Government of Uganda and Tullow, Total and CNOOC agreeing a basin wide commercialisation Other 14% Growth plan for the Lake Albert Basin.
com 71 Directors Report RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT We consider the long-term risks and opportunities we face The Executive Committee, which meets weekly, in a wide number of business activities and this supports is responsible for: decision making at an asset, business unit, regional, Managing delivery of budget and business plan: functional, Group and strategic level.
Our ability to manage risk is continually growing through our focus on developing Drive cost and operational efficiency: risk management capability and by learning from postEnsure consistent and integrated management: incident reviews.
In 2013, we focused on developing our Support strategic planning and risk management: and capability in emergency preparedness and incident Evaluate and monitor the delivery of projects.
management, EHS, bribery and corruption, social and political risks.
Our suspension of operations in Kenya in A number of cross-functional committees the GELT, 2013 was followed by an internal investigation, from which Development & Operations Leadership Team and Financial we have learned and will apply changes.
This demonstrates Risk Committee provide further assurance of the Groups our ability to respond quickly when a risk crystallises to technical, commercial and financial risks.
On a quarterly mitigate its current impact and into the future.
basis, Senior Management assess the Groups performance through Business Unit reviews, which include risk The Board is responsible for risk management as part of its assessment and mitigation plans.
role in providing strategic oversight and stewardship of the Group.
This includes approving the annual budget and three Regional Business Managers and corporate functions year business plan, evaluating risks to the delivery of the coordinate and manage the operational activities of the plan and defining operational targets.
Key strategic risks and Business Units and the wider business.
Risk is managed opportunities are also collated as part of the Boards annual by Business Unit Managers through in-country operational review.
Board committees, including the Audit, Nominations, monitoring of asset performance.
Formal operational Remuneration and EHS Committees, play a key role in reporting is completed weekly with monthly financial reviewing the effectiveness of Tullows risk management.
reporting to Senior Management, the Executive Committee and the Board.
Tullows overall system of internal controls The Board also sets risk management Board objectives and risk management structure, together with monthly and evaluates its performance.
In 2013 the Board focused and quarterly reporting, leads to an effective information on specific risks associated with social impacts and external exchange and facilitates decision-making focused on stakeholder relations, country risk, EHS, security and risk management.
human rights and treasury and financing options: as well as ensuring appropriate systems and processes exist to identify, Tullows key policies, standards, procedures and systems to monitor and manage evolving risks.
In 2014, the Boards support risk management are referenced in the long-term risk management objectives include political risk evaluation, performance risks table on pages 73 to 77. community relations and social performance, security and human rights and EHS, particularly process safety.
Further We have identified a number of evergreen risks to our information on the Boards objectives is on pages 84 to 85 longer-term performance and strategic delivery, which are of this report.
in addition to the shorter and medium-term principal risks that are specifically associated with the delivery of our The Board and senior management receive monthly reports business plan.
We believe these risks could potentially on the status of risks and mitigation actions.
This process adversely impact our employees, operations, performance tracks progress in mitigating risk, identifies new or emerging and assets.
Each year we critically review and evaluate the risks and refines mitigation processes in line with changes risks Tullow faces and refresh these in the external operating environment.
to reflect the changes in our business and operational profile.
The tables on Each Executive Director has a defined EACH EXECUTIVE pages 73 to 77 represent the Board responsibility and accountability for DIRECTOR HAS and Managements view of the most aspects of risk management.
The A DEFINED material and important long-term newly formed Executive Committee RESPONSIBILITY & performance risks to Tullow.
As a is a significant organisational change result they do not comprise all the ACCOUNTABILITY FOR in 2014, which will enhance overall risks and uncertainties we face.
72 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Directors Report 2 STRATEGY FAILS TO MEET SUSTAINED KEY OPERATIONAL SHAREHOLDER OBJECTIVES EXPLORATION FAILURE OR DEVELOPMENT FAILURE Strategic objective Strategic Execute selective highSafely manage and deliver Deliver substantial returns impact exploration and all major projects and priority to shareholders.
production operations, increasing cash flow and commercial reserves.
Executive Aidan Heavey Angus McCoss Paul McDade Chief Executive Officer Exploration Director Chief Operating Officer responsibility Performance Long-term TSR Resources growth Yearly operations targets indicator Exploration success ratio Timely delivery of projects Portfolio renewal and Production forecasts high-grading Finding costs Ineffective or poorly-executed Failure to sustain exploration success Operational delivery fails to meet Impact strategy fails to create shareholder is costly and limits replacement of cost and schedule budgets or value and to meet shareholder reserves and resources, which operational objectives, causing expectations, leading to a loss of impacts investor confidence in returns to be eroded.
investor confidence and a decline in long-term delivery of the Groups the share price.
This in turn reduces exploration-led growth strategy.
the Groups ability to access finance and increases vulnerability to a hostile takeover.
Exploration-led growth strategy, Clear exploration strategy based on Development & Operations Policies and ongoing portfolio management, core campaigns, GELT, competitive Leadership Team, project leadership systems three-year business plan, active capital allocation process and annual team, asset specific PoD, EHS Investor Relations programme, high-impact E&A programme.
systems and policies, Delegation of bi-annual investor survey, annual Authority DoA, Code of Business review of strategic objectives Conduct and asset delivery and monthly operational and risk management.
Mitigation Clear and consistent strategy Board approved E&A programme.
Technical, financial and Board execution, high-impact exploration Monthly reporting to the Board on approval required for all projects, process and appraisal programme, selective finding costs per boe and highand for all dedicated project teams.
development projects, asset grading of Groups portfolio, with Risk evaluation and progress monetisation across the value chain, a view to measuring success of reporting initiated for all projects resource growth, portfolio renewal exploration spend.
Application and reported on monthly.
and high-grading, strong balance of technical excellence and sheet and financial flexibility, appropriate technologies in effective communication with all exploration methodologies.
stakeholders, based on open and transparent dialogue.
Reaffirmation of exploration-led 100% exploration success rate in Production for year 84,200 boepd, Risk growth strategy onshore Kenya with an updated 6% increase on 2012 mitigation estimate of discovered resources Exploration success in Norway TEN development project under in 2013 to over 600 mmbo and Kenya way with key contracts awarded Basin-opening exploration to deliver first oil in mid-2016 TEN development project under success in Norway way following Government Banda Field Development approval and award of Over 200 mmboe of Contingent Plan approved by Government, key contracts Resources added progress to agree commercial contracts for full project Meetings with 350 institutions sanction underway Market perception survey www.
com 73 Directors Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED INSUFFICIENT LIQUIDITY, INAPPROPRIATE FINANCIAL COST & CAPITAL OIL & GAS STRATEGY DISCIPLINE PRICE VOLATILITY Manage financial and Manage financial and Manage financial and Strategic business assets to enhance business assets to enhance business assets to enhance priority our portfolio, replenish our portfolio, replenish our portfolio, replenish upside potential and upside potential and upside potential and support funding needs.
Ian Springett Ian Springett Ian Springett Executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer responsibility Operating cash flow Cash operating costs per boe Realised commodity prices Performance indicator Debt profile and capacity Finding costs per boe Gearing Capital expenditure and cost management targets Asset performance and excessive Ineffective cost control leads to Volatility in commodity prices Impact leverage leads to the Group being reduced margins and profitability, impacts the Groups revenue unable to meet its financial reducing operating cash flow and streams, with an adverse effect obligations.
This scenario, in the the ability to fund the business.
extreme, impacts on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, or causes a breach of bank covenants.
Financial strategy, cash flow DoA and budgeting and reporting Hedging strategy.
Policies and forecasting and management processes, and project approval systems and capital allocation processes.
process for all significant categories of expenditure.
Prudent approach to debt and Comprehensive annual budgeting Hedging strategy agreed by the Mitigation equity, with a balance maintained processes covering all expenditure Board, with monthly reporting of process through refinancing, cash flow are approved by the Board.
from operations and portfolio Executive management approval is management activity.
Board review required for major categories of and approval of financial strategy.
expenditure, and investment and Short-term and long-term cash divestment opportunities are forecasts reported on a regular ranked on a consistent basis, basis to Senior Management and resulting in effective management the Board.
Strong banking and of capital allocation.
$650 million corporate Capital expenditure for 2013 Realised oil price $105.7 bbl Risk bond issued was $1.8 billion 2012: mitigation Realised gas price 65.6 pence $1.9 billion TEN farm-down in progress per therm in 2013 Finding costs $5.1 per boe Sale of Pakistan and Bangladesh assets agreed Cash operating costs $16.5 per boe Monitoring of expenditure integrated with quarterly Business Unit reviews of performance 74 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Directors Report 2 SUPPLY CHAIN EHS FAILURE OR INFORMATION & FAILURE SECURITY INCIDENT CYBER SECURITY Manage financial and Ensure safe people, Achieve strong governance business assets to enhance procedures and across all Tullow activities our portfolio, replenish operations and minimise and continue to build trust upside potential and environmental impacts.
and reputation with support funding needs.
Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Graham Martin Paul McDade Angus McCoss Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer Exploration Director Company Secretary Timely delivery of projects EHS scorecard Prevent cyber attacks and information security breaches Due diligence checks Contract management scorecard Local Content Expenditure A delay in delivery of products or Major event from drilling or Loss of sensitive proprietary services results in project delivery production operations impacts staff, information, financial fraud, delays, causing significant financial contractors, communities or the reduction or halt in production.
penalties and a loss of reputation environment, leading to loss of with stakeholders.
Insufficient Local reputation, revenue and or Content will jeopardise our licence shareholder value.
to operate and breach legislation in some countries.
Group contracting and procurement Board-level EHS Committee, Information security policy procedures, post contract award Group-wide EHS policies, Tullow Oil framework defines structure, procedures, market, contract and Environmental Standards toes, risk methodology, levels of activity, supplier due diligence, logistics EHS Management Standards, crisis Group policy and standards.
standard operating procedures and management procedures, EHS Local Content policy.
Strategy Forum, Tullow Security Standard, Tullow Safety Rules, Occupational Health programme, application of the Voluntary Principles of Security and Human Rights VPSHR.
Risk assessment and full due Board-level commitment.
EHS The information security strategy diligence of all suppliers carried out standards set and monitored across integrates information, personnel prior to award of the contract.
Risk the Group through Business Unit and physical security.
A collaborative management embedded in the performance reporting.
Clear EHS cross-functional risk group provides Group contracting and procurement standards, policies and procedures governance and ensures technical procedures at all stages of the supported by strong leadership and non-technical solutions are both process.
Comprehensive supplier accountability and commitment effective and proportionate.
A monitoring undertaken to ensure throughout the organisation.
Protect, Monitor, Analyse and that any issues are identified Over 100 EHS professionals Respond methodology recognises promptly and rectified to avoid embedded in the business.
the everchanging threat landscape significant issues.
that drives investment in next generation technologies.
Independent review of EHS and External Affairs teams Information security training all suppliers integrated to enhance programme rolled out non-technical risk management Supplier risk assessment and Multifunctional Information EHS Management Standards Security Committee established due diligence revised and risk management now embedded for implemented Information security policy pre and post award activities Enhanced land transport policy framework updated Supplier monitoring integrated and standard implemented UN Cyber Governance Health with Tullow supplier Board EHS Committee Check completed performance management operational procedures being rolled out Training under way to improve contract holder capability in supplier management www.
com 75 Directors Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED LOSS OF KEY STAFF & BRIBERY & CORRUPTION GOVERNANCE & LEGAL RISK SUCCESSION PLANNING Ensure adequate Achieve strong governance Build a strong unified Strategic procedures are in place to across all Tullow activities team with excellent priority minimise risks to bribery and continue to build trust commercial, technical and corruption.
and reputation with and financial skills and all stakeholders.
Graham Martin Graham Martin Graham Martin Executive Executive Director & Executive Director & Executive Director & responsibility Company Secretary Company Secretary Company Secretary Performance Rollout of the Code of Conduct No material issues Staff turnover training and certification or claims arising indicator Recruitment for key roles Corrupt actions or practices in Contractual or other liability The loss of key staff and a lack of Impact the Groups activities leading to claims cause unplanned financial, internal succession planning for prosecutions or investigations, reputational or operational impact key roles within the Group causes impacting on the Groups on business continuity, ultimately short and medium-term business reputation and leading to loss eroding shareholder value.
Inability to recruit for of shareholder value.
Code of Business Conduct and Stakeholder engagement.
Ensure HR strategy, localisation, our Policies and corporate responsibility policies timely identification, resourcing and values, HR function and policies, systems and systems.
management of potential legal performance management and liability claims.
Talent management and external benchmarking.
Consistent ethical standards Experienced legal and commercial Clearly defined people strategy Mitigation established and applied through teams integrated with business based on culture and engagement, process the Code of Business Conduct, and decision making process: talent development and reward and through contract and procurement comprehensive knowledge of recognition, together with the procedures.
Conduct regular contractual and regulatory regimes.
continuing success of the Group.
reviews of compliance requirements together with periodic Board reporting.
Code of Conduct Certification Established relationships with Staff turnover remains low Risk process extended to all staff experienced local and at 4.5% mitigation international external counsel Compliance team Succession planning under way in 2013 resources strengthened for the key 100 roles within the Group Bribery and corruption risk management New People strategy roll out, process implemented including Executive travel to main offices for values and 2012 Good Corporation behaviours workshops compliance review implemented Confirmation of Code awareness programme conducted 76 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Directors Report 2 POLITICAL RISK SOCIAL RISK More information Nurture long-term Nurture long-term relationships with local relationships with local Risk Management in the Strategic Report 42 governments, communities governments, communities Board objectives 84 and key stakeholders.
Shared Prosperity 51 Paul McDade Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer This Directors Report and the information referred to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: No stoppages to our activities No stoppages to our activities No disturbances or force No disturbances or force majeure events majeure events Graham Martin Executive Director and Company Secretary Changes in political regimes can Erosion of Tullows social licence lead to re-negotiation of licence to operate leading to reduced and agreement terms or delays value of projects, possible local in grants of licences and approval disruptions, delays in project of agreements or other state schedules and increased project action, which is largely outside costs.
Impacts to our external of our control.
stakeholders include impacts on traditional livelihoods, local employment and business opportunities, and land acquisition and resettlement, among others.
Portfolio risk management tool Group Social Performance including review of political regimes standard drafted for approval and risks.
Early identification and ongoing Social investment projects targeted monitoring of political risks and at managing social risks and at opportunities.
Management plans delivering opportunities to addressing political impacts maximise our business benefits.
associated with existing or planned Policy and management system operations.
Ensuring that Tullow for operating in sensitive areas.
has appropriate resourcing and Community engagement competency to identify, analyse supported by grievance and advise on political management processes.
Political stakeholder mapping Doubled discretionary investment within key countries of operation in social projects in Kenya Identification of political risks Strengthened attention on social and opportunities and performance in Environmental appropriate planning and Social Impact Assessments stakeholder engagement Piloted social performance and Development of practical stakeholder engagement political risk guide for software management tool in business units, to implement East Africa best practice processes, tools Recruited additional and governance models for Community Liaison Officers political risk identification and mitigation www.
com 77 ACQUISITION IN NORWAY Following the completion of the Spring Energy acquisition in early 2013, Tullow commenced a high-impact exploration programme in Norway.
The Wisting Central wildcat well drilled offshore Norway in September 2013 made a play opening light oil discovery offshore in the Hoop-Maud Basin in the Barents Sea.
Tullow was successfully awarded three new licences in the 22nd Norwegian Licensing Round in June 2013.
The licences lie in frontier areas of the west, north and central Barents Sea and Tullow will hold non-operated equities of 20 to 40%.
