RISK MANAGEMENT Responsible risk management Effective risk management requires collective responsibility and engagement across our organisation.
For this reason, our risk management practices are structured across our governance framework to ensure that the Board, certain Board committees, theSenior Leadership Team, General Managers and Functional Heads are accountable for identifying, mitigating and managing riskin accordance with the responsibilities of their function and role within our organisation.
BOARD Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of internal control systems fide!fines ABGs risk has overall responsibility approves all key components appetite and tolerance for risk management compliance of risk management and internal control systems AUDIT COMMITTEE EHS&S COMMITTEE Reviews effectiveness as regards: Reviews effectiveness as regards: internal control systems environmental management programmes and systems internal and external audit functions security systems internal and external audit plan health and safety systems !financial reporting risk management systems social performance SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in ABGs culture, practices and operations INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Assists the Board and Management in executing their responsibilities a critical role in advising assists management reviews risk interpretation and producing guidance in conducting risk studies pro!les of risk data on risk-related matters 76 www.
"com DIRECTORS REPORT Risk management Risks relating to commodity prices: whilst we continue to take a range The successful delivery of ABGs strategy depends on our ability to of actions to mitigate our exposure to commodity pricing risks, and in tolerate and manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not particular our exposure to ""uctuations in the price of copper, silver jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders."
and diesel, given the ongoing uncertainty and global trends affecting the gold price and the impact that this may have on our !financial For this reason, we conduct risk assessments throughout the year as performance, we have taken the view that our exposure to this risk part of business performance and operational reviews, including: has increased when compared to our position at the end of 2012.
Quarterly business reviews Risks relating to political, legal and regulatory developments: whilst we maintain an active dialogue with the Tanzanian government on Group-level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks to matters relating to our business, and are committed to furthering the business and deepening our engagement in this regard, we are mindful of Operational risk workshops focused on speci!c operational risks in overall political developments affecting the mining industry in Africa the context of each of our operations and the potential impact that the forthcoming Tanzanian 2015 Functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect elections may have on our operating environment, such that we have underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax and technical taken a cautionary view on this risk and assessed our exposure as services, required for our long-term business plans having increased when compared to our position at the end of 2012.
Monthly operational and !financial performance reporting Risks relating to taxation reviews: again, whilst we maintain an active dialogue with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and the Ministry of Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporate risks Finance on outstanding tax assessments and unresolved tax disputes, identi!ed through the above reviews.
Residual risks are then identi!ed particularly in the context of VAT relief, and have made good progress based on the effectiveness of existing controls and mitigating action this year in reaching an agreement on the treatment of VAT payments plans prepared for all high-impact areas.
When compiled, all risk made in the context of ABG Group imports, we are mindful of the assessments are assessed by the Senior Leadership Team in the !first effects that delays in recovering outstanding VAT refunds may have instance, the Audit and EHS&S committees, where relevant and on ABGs !financial condition, such that we have taken a cautionary appropriate, and ultimately form the basis of adetailed Board review.
view on this risk and assessed our exposure to taxation risks as Further details as regards the outcome of the Boards internal control having increased when compared to our position at the end of 2012. and risk management review for the year is provided on page 46.
Risk relating to utilities supply: whilst electricity supply continues to be an issue across Tanzania, we have made a number of investments 2013 risk review in power generation capabilities, such that we have capacity for the Generally, the overall makeup of our principal risks has not signi!cantly self-generation of power to maintain critical systems across all ABG changed from 2012.
However, during the year there have been changes mine sites.
Therefore, we believe that we have reduced our exposure incertain risk pro!les as a result of developments in our operating to this risk when compared to our position at the end of 2012. environment and continuing uncertainties and trends within the wider global economy and or the mining industry.
Where appropriate, risk Risks relating to security, trespass and vandalism: we have ratings have been reviewed against risk management controls and other continued to strengthen our security systems throughout the year and mitigating factors.
In this regard, we have removed risks relating to re!ne our security plans, whilst also making progress with community changes affecting the majority shareholding and variations to production relations initiatives to enhance relationships with local communities.
and cost estimates from the 2013 principal risks table as these risks Coupled with the commencement of a strategic review of our security are no longer viewed as principal risks to our business.
By the same management procedures, which aims to enhance alignment between token, we have maintained a medium risk rating for health and safety our security model and operational requirements, we believe we are risks this year, comparable to that of 2012, given our controls and taking steps to reduce our exposure to this risk when compared to our procedures in this area.
In addition: position at the end of 2012.
Risks relating to reserves and resources estimates: whilst it will We have also added a new principal risk this year relating to the never be possible to give assurances or certainty as regards reserves potential impact that our organisational restructuring may have on the and resources estimates due to the varying nature and various factors delivery of key operational support services and certain elements of our which can impact such estimates, as a result of the improvements internal controls environment, something we will seek to mitigate we have introduced, and will continue to implement as regards mine through the development of ongoing change control procedures and by planning and cost controls this year, we believe that we have reduced maintaining the existing management structures for key functions within certain exposures in this context, when compared to our position at our internal controls framework.
the end of 2012, particularly as regards exposure to variations to production and cost estimates.
The following table sets out the principal risks affecting the ABG Group Risks relating to increases in operating costs and capital in more detail.
In addition to those risks stated, there may be additional expenditure: whilst cost control pressures remain a key focus for our risks unknown to ABG and other risks, currently believed to be industry and for ABG as a company, as a result of progress made in immaterial, that could turn out to be material to the ABG Group.
In the implementation of the Operational Review in the context of cost addition, ABG could also be affected by risks relating to the gold mining controls and increased enhancements to capital discipline, and our industry generally and the risks and hazards involved in the business continuing focus on identifying further measures within core mining of mining metals, which are largely outside its control.
Lastly, due to areas to deepen the effects of this review, we believe that we have the very nature of risks, mitigating factors stated should not be viewed reduced our exposure to this risk when compared to our position at as assurances that actions taken or planned will be wholly effective.
Additional discussions of certain trends and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided as part of our Strategic report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information STRATEGIC RISKS Single country risk All of the ABG Groups revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Tanzania.
In Vice President, Exploration ABG assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities Continuing evaluation of High A review of exploration order to ensure continued growth, the Group needs to identify new resources and development to build on its existing portfolio, particularly acquisition and corporate development activities is set out in opportunities through exploration and acquisition targets.
This is particularly the case in the context development opportunities outside Tanzania to maximise opportunities across Africa.
of the identi!cation of potential growth opportunities in other territories, something which is required growth potential and to help mitigate the effects that signi!cant Progression of exploration to strengthen the business through geographic diversi!cation in order to mitigate the effects that developments in Tanzania could have on our business.
programmes across the West signi!cant in-country developments could have on our operations and business.
Reserves and resources estimates The ABG Groups stated mineral reserves and resources are estimates based on a range of Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABG seeks to manage the varying nature of reserve and resource Review of life of mine plans High Details of the ABG assumptions, including geological, metallurgical and technical factors, such that no assurances Manager Planning and Business estimates through our life of mine planning procedures, periodic for all operations and Groups reserves and can be given that the anticipated tonnages or grades will be achieved.
Improvement and General Managers reviews of such estimates and production targets and by ensuring introduction of new life of resources are set out that our reserves and resources estimates are calculated and mine plans for Buzwagi and in the reserves and reported in accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101 of North Mara.
resources statement the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum.
Completion of review of mining methods used at our Details of enhancements operations and opportunities made to life of mine to enhance these methods, planning during the year particularly at Bulyanhulu.
are provided as part of the Chief Executive Of!cers report.
FINANCIAL RISKS Commodity prices ABGs !financial performance is highly dependent on the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, Chief Financial Of!cer and ABGs strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure to the Entry into hedging facilities High Further information the price of copper and silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing of these commodities, which are largely Vice President, Finance price of gold and, as such, a no-gold-hedging policy has been for copper, silver and diesel.
is set out inthe attributable to factors beyond ABGs control, will likely have a corresponding impact on ABGs adopted.
"ABG has entered into hedging arrangements for certain market overview Ongoing review of !financial condition, particularly in the context of rapid pricing ""uctuations."
"operating cost exposures copper, silver and diesel to mitigate provided as part of commodity price ""uctuations the impact of pricing ""uctuations for such commodities."
We also the Financial review.
"as part of !financial monitor our exposure to commodity price ""uctuations as part of management controls."
!financial and treasury planning and controls procedures.
"Costs and capital expenditure ABG operates a cyclical business where ""uctuations in operating cash ""ow and capital expenditure Chief Financial Of!cer and ABG management continuously monitors factors which could Implementation of High Further information is may adversely affect ABGs !financial condition."
In addition, industry cost pressures, particularly as Vice President, Finance impact operational costs and capital expenditure and we seek to Operational Review.
set out in the Financial regards labour, capital equipment and energy, affect ABGs ability to manage operating costs and manage such factors through the ongoing implementation of cost review generally and Availability of revolving capital expenditure.
controls, particularly in the context of the Operational Review.
"information as regards credit facility forworking ABG maintains a conservative balance sheet and strict cash ""ow progress made under capital purposes."
planning processes to mitigate liquidity risks.
It also has a the Operational Review is commercial credit facility to support general working capital set out in the Chief purposes, which remains undrawn.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information STRATEGIC RISKS Single country risk All of the ABG Groups revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Tanzania.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information EXTERNAL RISKS Political, legal and regulatory developments The ABG Groups exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws Vice President, Corporate Affairs ABG management assesses legal and political risks as part of its Enhancement of High Further information is and regulations governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
ABGs ability to andGeneral Counsel evaluation of potential projects.
It actively monitors legal and Governmental and regulatory provided as part of the conduct its business is dependent on stable and consistent interpretation and application of laws political developments in countries in which its existing operations engagement and dialogue.
and regulations applicable to mining activities and its operations, particularly in Tanzania.
Lifting of Environmental to existing applicable laws and regulations, a more stringent application or interpretation of Protection Order at ABG management actively engages in dialogue with the Tanzanian applicable law and regulation, or inconsistencies and irregularities in the interpretation of applicable North Mara.
government and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and law and regulation by relevant government authorities could adversely affect the progression of Establishment of escrow regulatory developments applicable to its operations, in particular ABGs operations and development projects.
ABGs operations and !financial condition will also arrangements to safeguard developments in connection with the Tanzanian Mining Act and be adversely affected if existing Mineral Development Agreements are not honoured by the VAT refunds on imports.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, and political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries.
Taxation reviews The ABG Groups !financial position may be adversely affected in the event of the introduction of Chief Financial Of!cer and The ABG Group has entered into a series of ongoing discussions Establishment of an escrow High Further information is revised royalty or corporate tax regimes in Tanzania that go beyond the !scal stability agreements Vice President, Finance with the Tanzanian government with the goal of resolving arrangement to safeguard provided as part of the contained in the Mineral Development Agreements applicable to the ABG Groups operations.
outstanding tax disputes and recovering amounts owed and VAT refunds due on Financial review.
continues to review taxation matters generally on an ongoing imports and the receipt In addition, ABG has a number of ongoing discussions with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and basis.
To date, we have negotiated and agreed a memorandum of of refunds pursuant to Ministry of Finance as regards certain outstanding tax assessments and unresolved tax disputes, understanding for the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax such arrangements.
particularly in the context of VAT relief.
ABGs !financial condition continues to be impacted as a refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT and, more recently, we result of the ongoing nature of these discussions and may be further adversely affected if we have agreed to the use of an escrow arrangement in order to do not achieve a successful resolution to these discussions.
safeguard the recoverability of VAT refunds on imports.
"Utilities supply Power stoppages, ""uctuations and disruptions in electrical power supply or other utilities impact the Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABG has made a number of investments in power generation Ongoing discussions with High Further information on ABG Groups ability to operate continuously and can also result in increased costs, particularly as Manager Planning and Business capabilities, such that we have capacity for the self generation of TANESCO as regards power the status of power regards power supply costs, due to the need to use alternative power sources in order to mitigate Improvement and General Managers power to maintain critical systems across sites."
We also seek to supply initiatives.
supply is provided as the impact of electricity shortages.
In addition, alternative power sources may not be available employ practices for alternative power use in order to provide for part of this Risk Ongoing review of alternate something which may also impact production at ABGs operations.
cost saving ef!ciencies whenever possible.
Community relations A failure to adequately engage or manage relations with local communities and stakeholders affects Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABG looks to progress a range of community relations initiatives, Progression of social High Details of the ABG ABGs social licence to operate and can have a direct and negative impact on ABGs ability to Manager Organisational Effectiveness, notably through the investments made by the ABG Maendeleo management plans for Groups community operate at its existing operations.
General Counsel, Vice President, Fund, in order to progress and maintain relationships with ABG operations.
relations activities Corporate Affairs and General Managers local communities.
and community Progression of funding investments are set initiatives under theABG out in the Corporate Maendeleo Fund.
Land acquisitions Progression of mining activities at certain ABG operations is dependent upon the ABG Groups ability Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABG seeks to address issues relating to land acquisition in Progression of land High A discussion of land to complete additional land acquisitions required to support life of mine plans successfully and in a Manager Planning and Business collaboration with the Tanzanian Government and relevant legal acquisitions at North Mara acquisition activities is timely manner.
Increases in the cost of land acquisitions required to support the expansion and Improvement, Vice President Corporate authorities.
The assessment of land footprint requirements also and Bulyanhulu.
provided as partofthe continuation of our current mining activities and or delays in completing such acquisitions could Affairs and General Counsel forms part of life of mine planning activities.
have a material adverse effect on operating conditions, particularly at North Mara.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information EXTERNAL RISKS Political, legal and regulatory developments The ABG Groups exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws Vice President, Corporate Affairs ABG management assesses legal and political risks as part of its Enhancement of High Further information is and regulations governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information OPERATIONAL RISKS Loss of critical processes The ABG Groups mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuous Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General Management assesses the critical components of ABGs Further upgrades to High Further discussion availability of its operational infrastructure, in addition to reliable utilities and water supplies and access Manager Planning and Business operational infrastructure on a continuous basis.
In addition, inventory management regarding inventory to roads.
Any failure or unavailability of operational infrastructure, for example, through equipment Improvement and General Managers part of the Operational Review has examined opportunities to procedures management failure or disruption, could adversely affect production output and or impact exploration and enhance existing supply chain management practices in the as part of the improvements is development activities.
fide!ciencies in core supply chain availability could also adversely affect context of improving overall management of inventory levels, Operational Review.
provided as part of the ABG Groups operations.
including appropriate critical supply levels.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation The ABG Groups operations are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABG uses a number of environmental management systems and Initial certi!cation of High Details of the ABG chemicals used in its extraction and production methods.
ABG may be liable for losses and costs Manager Organisational Effectiveness, controls across its business and operations to provide for Buzwagi under the Groups environmental associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its licences and permits withdrawn General Counsel and General Managers appropriate environmental practices, including the adoption of International Cyanide Code.
performance for the or suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and speci!c environmental management plans for each of our year are set out in Lifting of the Environmental remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations, operations and the use of environmental and social impact the Corporate Protection Order at should they occur.
ABG also monitors mining responsibility review.
and operational activities against key international standards, such as the International Cyanide Code and assesses remediation and rehabilitation costs on an annual basis.
Employee, contractor and industrial relations ABGs business signi!cantly depends upon its ability to attract and retain skilled employees and to Executive General Manager ABG regularly assesses its staff recruitment and retention policies Continued progression High Further details on maintain good relations generally with its employees and employee representative groups, such as trade Organisational Effectiveness to assist with labour stability, and maintains appropriate of programmes for employment practices unions.
A loss in skilled employees and or a breakdown in employee relations could result in a decrease investment in training and development to safeguard the skills of workforce localisation.
and related initiatives in production levels and or increased costs and or general disruptions to operations, which could have a its workforce.
It is also focused on furthering the nationalisation of are provided in Further progression of material adverse effect on ABGs business, operations and !financial condition.
its workforce in Tanzania and participates in a number of training the Corporate industrial relations programmes to helpdevelop local industry expertise.
and employee In addition to employees, ABG depends on certain key contractors.
Interruptions in contracted Assessments of employee and keycontractor relationships are consultation initiatives.
services could result in production slowdowns and or stoppages.
undertaken on a regular basis to ensurethat the relevant support balances business requirements and wider expectations.
Security, trespass and vandalism ABG faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider security-related matters Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General ABGs existing security management system provides for a number of Further upgrades to High Further information on relating to trespass, theft and vandalism and unauthorised small-scale mining in proximity to its Manager Organisational Effectiveness measures that protect employees, assets and operations.
security developments operations and on speci!c areas covered by ABGs exploration and mining licences, all of which and General Counsel include the ongoing development of security personnel, and the and initiatives canbe Increased training of may have an adverse effect upon ABGs operations and !financial condition.
implementation and, where appropriate, upgrading of security found in the Corporate security personnel across infrastructure, such as perimeter fencing, surveillance equipment responsibility review.
and security checks and procedures.
As part of ongoing operational Commencement of strategic reviews ABG will review opportunities to enhance and progress its review of security security management procedures for improved alignment with management procedures.
Where appropriate, ABG also works in collaboration with local law enforcement to address security-related threats and concerns.
Organisational restructuring ABGs organisational restructuring including the transfer of certain support functions from Chief Financial Of!cer, Executive General ABG is in the process of establishing speci!c change management Ongoing development of High Further information South Africa to Tanzania and related transitional periods, may negatively impact the delivery Manager Planning and Business procedures for use in implementing the organisational restructuring procedures and controls as regards this risk of key operational support services and could also result in deteriorations in certain !financial Improvement and Executive General and will also maintain its current management structures for !financial to support the is provided as part and operational controls.
Manager Organisational Effectiveness reporting, treasury, planning and internal audit, these being key implementation of ongoing of this Risk elements of ABGs internal controls and risk management framework.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2013 impact from 2012 information OPERATIONAL RISKS Loss of critical processes The ABG Groups mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuous Chief Executive Of!cer, Executive General Management assesses the critical components of ABGs Further upgrades to High Further discussion availability of its operational infrastructure, in addition to reliable utilities and water supplies and access Manager Planning and Business operational infrastructure on a continuous basis.
