| 26 AVEVAGroupplc Annual report 2013 Directors report Risks and uncertainties As with any organisation there are a number Key:Risk change from previous year of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups longterm v z x RISk RISk RISk performance.
The principal risks and uncertainties DECREASE uNCHANGED INCREASE faced by the Group are as follows: stRatEGiC and maRkEt Risks 01 risk Mitigation dEpEndEnCy On kEy maRkEts AVEVA already has a broad spread across existing and new market segments.
It is central to our AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from strategy to diversify our customer offerings into customers whose main business is derived from capital Enterprise Solutions and Plant operations.
This projects driven predominantly by growth in the Oil and Gas, will help secure a longer term income stream that Power and Marine markets.
World economic conditions or extends beyond the design build phase of these z funding constraints for new capital projects may adversely capital projects.
In addition, our expanding global affect our financial performance.
presence provides some mitigation from overreliance on key geographic markets.
COmpEtitiOn We carefully monitor customers and other suppliers operating within our chosen markets.
We stay close AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve to our customers and ensure we have a strong the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
We believe that understanding of their needs and their expectations there are a relatively small number of significant competitors from the AVEVA product development roadmap.
However, some of these competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat, During FY13 we launched AVEVA E3D and our particularly if they consolidate or form strategic or commercial z vision for the future of plant design.
This together relationships among themselves or with larger, well capitalised with a number of other new products will help companies.
A further threat is posed by the entrance, into cement our relationships with our customers AVEVAs markets, of a much larger technology competitor.
and reinforce barriers to competition.
EntERpRisE sOlutiOns The development of the Groups Enterprise Solutions We have managed our investment into Enterprise business represents a significant opportunity for the Group.
Solutions carefully: employing experienced industry This is a relatively new market with different characteristics professionals: building commercial partnerships compared to our traditional Engineering and Design business.
with third party systems integrators: and carefully This brings different challenges and opportunities for the selecting our target markets and customers.
In FY13, Group which we believe we are well positioned to manage v Enterprise Solutions financial results improved and and exploit.
However, there remains a risk that our investment this line of business recorded a positive contribution in this area does not produce the financial returns as quickly for the first time.
idEntifiCatiOn and suCCEssful intEGRatiOn Of aCquisitiOns During the year, the Group successfully completed two While each acquisition and integration is unique, acquisitions and expects to continue to review acquisition AVEVA now has an experienced team to appraise targets as part of its strategy.
The integration of acquisitions and complete acquisitions.
The Groups involves a number of unique risks, including diversion of experience of previous bolton acquisitions managements attention, failure to retain key personnel provides a good understanding of potential z of the acquired business, failure to realise the benefits integration risks and as a result we feel well anticipated to result from the acquisition and successful placed to manage these risks successfully.
integration of the acquired intellectual property.
COM | Directors report Annual report 2013 AVEVAGroupplc 27 OpERatiOnal Risks 02 risk Mitigation pROtECtiOn Of intEllECtual pROpERty The protection of the Groups proprietary software products is achieved by licensing rights to use the application, rather than selling or licensing the computer source code.
The Group uses third party technology to encrypt, protect and restrict access to The Groups success has been built upon the development its products.
Access limitations and rights are also of its substantial intellectual property rights and the future defined within the terms of the software licence growth of the business requires the continual protection z agreement.
The Group seeks to ensure that its of these tools.
intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law and seeks to vigorously assert its proprietary rights wherever possible.
REsEaRCh and dEvElOpmEnt AVEVA continually reviews the alignment of the activities of its Research and Development teams The Group makes substantial investments in Research and to ensure that they remain focused on areas that Development in enhancing existing products and introducing will eet the demands of customers and deliver new products and must effectively appraise its investment appropriate financial returns.
This process is managed decisions and ensure that we continue to provide classleading by developing a product roadmap that identifies the solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
Our software z schedule for new products and the enhancements products are complex and new products or enhancements may that will be made to successive versions of existing contain undetected errors, failures, performance problems products.
Products are extensively tested prior or defects which may impact our strong reputation with to commercial launch.
intERnatiOnal OpERatiOns The Group manages its overseas operations The Group now operates in over 40 countries globally and must by employing locally qualified personnel who determine how best to utilise its resources across these diverse are able to provide expertise in the appropriate markets.
Where necessary the business must adapt its market language and an understanding of local culture, approach to best capitalise on local market opportunities, custom and practice.
Local management are particularly in the strategically key growth economies.
In addition, z supported by local professional advisers and the Group is required to comply with the local laws, regulations further oversight is maintained from the Groups and tax legislation in each of these jurisdictions.
Significant corporate legal and finance functions.
changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could lead to additional liabilities and penalties.
RECRuitmEnt and REtEntiOn Of EmplOyEEs The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are motivated in their work and there are regular appraisals, with staff encouraged to develop AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and reputation their skills.
of its products and services, which rely almost entirely on Annually there is a Groupwide salary review the quality of the people developing and delivering them.
that rewards strong performance and ensures Managing this pool of highly skilled and motivated individuals z salaries remain competitive.
across all disciplines and geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
Commission and bonus schemes help to ensure individual success is appropriately rewarded.
03 finanCial Risks risk Mitigation fOREiGn ExChanGE Risk The Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to manage the currency risk where Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can be material.
The overseas subsidiaries trade in their material to the Group, with approximately 80% of the own currencies, which also acts as a natural hedge Groups revenue denominated in a foreign currency, x against currency movements.
In recent months, of which the two largest are US Dollar and Euro.
world currencies have become more volatile.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
