Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information risk management and principal risks risk management the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in delivering Victrexs strategic objectives.
the Board is also responsible for creating the framework for the groups risk management to operate effectively.
read on to learn how Victrex operates an effective risk management framework.
1 RISK AGENDA ie why do we undertake risk management?
5 4 2 RISK GOVERNANCE RISK COMMUNICATION ie how do we evaluate ie how do we RISK ASSESSMENT and provide assurance communicate risk ie how do we assess and record risks?
3 RISK RESPONSE ie how do we respond to risks?
Risk objectives Risk strategy 1 RISK AGENDA Victrex undertakes risk management with Victrexs risk strategy is through the objective of facilitating better decision anappropriate and embedded risk Why do we making, together with the continuous management culture and framework.
undertake risk improvement in the resilience, performance, TheBoard takes its responsibility seriously sustainability and success of our business, for creating the framework for the Groups management?
whilst in turn providing better information risk management to operate effectively.
ensures that appropriate and proportionate resources are allocated to risk management, in order to ensure the activities of risk assessment, response, communication and governance are embedded in Victrexs processes.
Our risk management framework is aligned to our organisational and management structure and accordingly roles, responsibilities and cross functional committees are in place at Group, business unit and project levels.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 17 risk management continued In identifying risks we consider both is adopted when assessing the potential 2 RISK ASSESSMENT externalfactors, arising from the effect on the Group.
How do we assess environment in which we operate: Each risk is also assessed as to whether it is andinternal factors arising from the within the Groups risk appetite set by the and record risks?
natureof our business, our controls Board.
The strategic risk appetite for the andprocesses and our decision making.
business is defined in the business strategy and is reviewed annually.
Management Analysis and recording of risks assesses whether net risks are within the Members of the Executive Management businesss risk appetite and this is recorded Team, or other management, own their on the risk register and serves to identify when respective risks and, with support from the further actions can or need to be taken.
Business Assurance function, seek to record the causes and consequences, together with The risk owners are responsible for ensuring mitigating factors to transfer the risk and their risks are recorded in the appropriate utilise any independent assurance activity.
project, business unit or Group level risk Each risk is evaluated based on its likelihood register, are evaluated appropriately and of occurrence and severity of impact on remain up to date.
strategy, profit, regulatory compliance, reputation and or people, at both a gross Re-evaluation and challenge of risks and a net level i. e. before and after the We seek to keep the risk registers up to date effect of current lines of defence in place to so as to remain relevant to our strategic mitigate or transfer the risk and positioned objectives.
The risk registers are therefore on a risk ranking matrix.
This approach regularly reviewed, challenged, debated allows the identification of the significant andrisks escalated as appropriate, as material risks, consideration of the effect described under riskcommunication.
ofcurrent lines of defence in mitigation or transfer, and ensures a consistent approach As a result of our assessment and We continually challenge the efficiency 3 RISK RESPONSE recordingof current risks, an appropriate andeffectiveness of existing controls How do we response is decided upon foreach risk, andalways seek to improve our risk iewhether to tolerate it, treat itfurther, management framework.
The risk owners respond to risks?
transfer it or terminate the threat tothe and Business Assurance are required to business.
Appropriate actions to mitigate allocate a status rating of appropriateness the risk further, transfer the risk to another and effectiveness against each line of party, for example an insurer, or alter the defence.
This helps transparently identify activities of Victrex, so as to remove the the risk owners measure of effectiveness risk from ourbusiness, are also considered.
ofthe mitigating factors and clearly identify those risks requiring a risk response thereby allowing focus on an appropriate action plan.
This requirement allows the risk register to record and track the completion of improvement recommendations.
3 lines of defence explained Management Audit Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence The day to day controls and processes put in Managements oversight activities over its 1st Independent business assurance is provided place by management to mitigate the risks.
line of defence controls and processes and by both third parties and in-house internal risk management processes.
audit over the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and processes in managements 1st and 2nd lines of defence.
18 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4 RISK COMMUNICATION How do we plc Board communicate risk management?
Group Risk Audit Management Committee Committee EMT Risk Business Management Assurance Committee Support VPS Risk Invibio Risk ServicesRisk Management Management Management Committee Committee Committee At Victrex, our risk management framework level.
During the course of the year, the Management Committee of the third line is as follows: Group Risk Management Committee met ofdefence, which is the level of independent quarterly.
However, due to the strengthening assurance provided over the first line day to Victrex plc Board of the risk management process over recent day controls and processes and second line The Victrex plc Board is responsible for years, and the enhanced role of the Executive management oversight activities.
determining the nature andextent of Management Team in that risk management thesignificant risks it is willing to take process see below, the Group Risk EMT Risk Management Committee inachieving its strategic objectives and Management Committee will now meet The Executive Management Team EMT responsible for creating the framework for twice yearly and will continue to report Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Groups risk management to operate tothe Board after each meeting.
Such the Finance Director, reviews the Group effectively.
The Board annually undertakes improvements in process help further riskregister quarterly to ensure it remains aformal review of the effectiveness of the embed risk management into our relevant to the changing uncertainties risk management framework, policy and business.
This Committee comprises the threatening our businesss strategic procedures, the performance of the Group executive Directors, Managing Director objectives.
Feedback is provided to the Risk Management Committee and approves ofInvibio, General Counsel and Company Group Risk Management Committee twice the risk management policy.
Twice yearly the Secretary, Head of Business Assurance, yearly by the Finance Director.
The EMT Board reviews the key risks in the Groups VPS Manufacturing Director and Global RiskManagement Committee comprises the risk register, thereby allowing it the SHE Manager.
The Group risk register is EMT membership in addition to the Head of opportunity to review the level of risk consolidated from those registers of the Business Assurance and Global SHE Manager.
theyare prepared to accept in pursuit underlying risk management committees.
The Group risk register tracks the status Business unit and Support Services Risk ratings against each line of defence and the Management Committees Group Risk Management Committee action plan, therefore allowing it to be used Risk management committees exist for The Board is supported in its responsibilities effectively as a record of the completion of eachbusiness unit and Support Services.
by the Group Risk Management Committee, risk improvement actions and their revised These meet and report up to the EMT Risk which is chaired by the non-executive likelihood and impact.
This Group risk Management Committee quarterly, and the Director Lawrence Pentz, and is responsible register, through its transparent recording Group Risk Management Committee twice for ensuring that allsignificant risks facing ofeach risk, allows for monitoring by the yearly, via their respective Chairs, who are the Group are reduced to an acceptable Board, Audit Committee and Group Risk EMT Risk Management Committee members.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 19 risk management continued Business unit and Support Services Risk Audit Committee The independent Business Assurance Management Committees continued The responsibilities of the Audit Committee function supports the Audit Committee in The business unit and Support Services Risk areexplained on page 46.
This responsibility its review of the effectiveness of the system Management Committees comprise cross includes reviewing the Groups system of of internal control, as do other independent functional members of their respective internal control, including financial, operational, assurance providers, for example the external Leadership Teams, in addition to the Head compliance and risk management, and includes auditor on matters identified during the of Business Assurance and Global SHE reviewing the systems effectiveness.
Such course of its statutory audit work.
The business unit and Support asystem is primarily designed to mitigate An area of current focus is the further Services Risk Management Committees are riskdown to an acceptable level, rather than development of co-ordinated, risk-based, responsible for ensuring that the specific completely eliminate the risk, and the review independent business assurance activity.
risks facing that business unit and Support can provide only reasonable and not absolute Theinclusion of the status rating of Services are reduced to an acceptable level.
assurance of effective operation, compliance appropriateness and effectiveness against with laws and regulations and against each line of defence for high level risks Projects material misstatement or loss.
provides improved transparency, focus Where it is appropriate, projects will have andmonitoring of where independent aproject specific risk register which will business assurance resource is required bereported to the relevant business unit.
Risk governance ensures procedures are in to the quarterly meetings of the EMT Risk 5 RISK GOVERNANCE place to evaluate and provide risk assurance Management Committee, which reviews How do for the processes over the management these, and the risks in the Group risk ofexisting and emerging risks.
The three lines of defence model we evaluate the processes in place to support the risk is recognised as best practice in relation governance component of our risk management to risk governance, and its inclusion and provide framework include the following: onthe face of our Group risk register assurance enhances this risk governance aspect The Board annually undertakes a formal ofour risk management framework.
over our review of the effectiveness of the risk TheFinance Director, on behalf of the management framework, policies and management EMT Risk Management Committee, then procedures, the performance of the provides feedback on its risk management Group Risk Management Committee of risks?
activities and its review of the Group risk andapproves the risk management register twice yearly to the Group Risk framework.
Twice yearly the Board Management Committee, which reviews the key risks in the Groups considers these.
riskregister, thereby allowing it the opportunity to review the level of risk the There is a rolling programme of business business is prepared to accept in pursuit assurance review carried out across of its strategic objectives.
The Board theGroup, co-ordinated by the Head of reviews and approves the corporate Business Assurance, who independently strategy and the budgets and forecasts.
reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in relation to business assurance The business unit and Support Services matters.
TheAudit Committee reviews the Risk Management Committees meet annual business assurance plan, its findings, quarterly.
Risk owners reassess the risks effectiveness, allocation of appropriate around achieving the strategic objectives, resources and risk management activities record their assessment ofthese risks in and priorities.
An area of current focus is their respective risk registers, reassess the the further development of co-ordinated, effectiveness of the mitigating factors risk-based, independent business assurance currently in place and identify any risks activity.
As reported previously, the inclusion requiring a further risk response.
An of the status rating of appropriateness and appropriate action plan and tracking of effectiveness against each line of defence progress to the completion of any risk for high level risks provides improved improvement recommendations is also transparency, focus and monitoring of completed.
The Chairman of each of where independent business assurance these RiskManagement Committees then resource is required and being directed.
communicates significant output, activities and emerging and evolving risks 20 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risks It is recognised that the groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if risks are taken and managed effectively.
the risks below are those considered principal to delivering our strategy and are ,  that may occur and impact the groups performance.
Risk area and description Mitigation Technological change Innovation and product leadership are key to our We serve a diverse range of markets.
With long-term megatrends such as energy business and what differentiates Victrex.
We provide efficiency, weight reduction and smaller and smarter electronics in our favour, innovative solutions to help our customers overcome wehave a strong and diverse mix of new growth opportunities and we continue their technological challenges.
Innovation failings todevelop apipeline of new applications and investing to underpin our growth therefore could result in a lack of competitive anddeliver sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
We are future advantage and products, erosion of margin and thinkers, identifying the market need and capturing value as product leaders, failureto achieve sustainable earnings.
withstrong customer relationships, a partnership approach with both customers and end usersand technical excellence.
To advance our technology skills and knowledge, weinvest in technological resources of both office and field-based commercial andtechnical specialists and global technical centres.
Recruitment and retention of the rightpeople People continue to be our most valuable asset and our The Group-wide People Strategy ensures we have processes in plate to attract and success depends on recruiting and retaining the right retain the best talent, provide opportunities for personal development, encourage people inall areas of our business.
Victrex relies heavily diversity and recognise and reward excellence.
The People Strategy is regularly on the skills, experience and competence of our discussed at Board, Executive Management Team and business unit level.
We people to drive business development in our existing continue to invest strongly in the development of our people through clear employee and new markets, as well as operate our assets safely objectives and development plans, aligned to our strategy, and formal and informal and with a strong regard tothe environment.
training programmes on a global basis.
We have succession plans in place for key roles and continue to work in developing our future leaders so that we are able topromote internally as well as sourcing talent externally.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a commitment to make full use of the talents and resources of all our employees, and to provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships within our global organisation.
Business continuity It is essential to ensure continuity of supply and We have implemented policies and procedures to efficiently and safely manage all serviceto our customers, that we can operate even our operations and to maintain our supply of products to our customers.
In particular, ifasignificant incident has occurred.
The Groups we employ a dedicated and empowered Safety, Health and Environment SHE business is dependent on the ongoing operation department to assist line management and to provide expert guidance.
Further ofour various manufacturing facilities and hence information on SHE matters is in the Sustainability Report on page 23. asignificant operational disruption could adversely affect our ability to make and supply products.
Victrex We have in place robust and comprehensive business continuity plans which are operates in a manufacturing environment that is regularly reviewed and monitored to ensure their continued effectiveness.
subject to numerous legislation and regulations where failure to operate safely and comply could adversely Our stocks of finished goods which are held in a number of locations worldwide impact our employees, manufacturing capability or should enable us to maintain supplies to our customers during any short-term attractiveness of our business or products to various disruption.
Additionally, we continue to work closely with our key suppliers to stakeholders.
Our reputation as an ethical and ensure we maintain appropriate stocks of key raw materials, which are located trustworthy business partner is one of our most atanumber of locations.
valuable assets and is critical to our success.
It is important that we uphold our good reputation and Furthermore, our two PEEK plants are able to operate independently, thereby can be trusted by investors, employees, customers, reducing the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue suppliers and partners.
Construction of our third PEEK plant, whichis expected tobe operational in 2015, is well underway.
We are proactively embedding sustainability right at the heart of our business.
Formore details see our Sustainability Report on page 23. www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 21 Principal risks continued Risk area and description Mitigation Environmental management We operate large manufacturing assets, with We actively control our environmental impact through the resources that we use hazardous chemical processes and raw materials.
tomake our products and the processes that we operate.
Our priorities are the efficient use of energy and waste minimisation, and we are proactively delivering safe and continuous improvement in these areas.
Further detail is contained in theSustainability Report on page 23.
Insufficient capacity Failure to maintain a secure supply of highquality Our stocks of finished goods and raw materials, which are held in a number products to our customers by, for example, an oflocations worldwide, enable us to supply any short-term surges in demand.
unexpected upsurge in demand or delays in the Furthermore, it is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand by continuous implementation of major capital expenditure investment in our supply chain so that our customers can be confident that we can programmes, could lead a capacity shortage meet their requirements today and in the future.
The current construction of our andlossofearnings.
third PEEK plant will increase capacity by 2,900 tonnes to in excess of 7,000 tonnes.
Product liability We sell into highly demanding end use applications VICTREX PEEK polymer is manufactured within a quality management system approved and often highly regulated markets.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured within tosupply our products in accordance with the the requirements of ISO 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing practice often specification could lead to loss of business and used by the pharmaceutical industry and by medical device manufacturers.
There is a apotential product liability claim.
continuous improvement quality management process in place and the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
Changing global economic environment Exposure to changes and events outside the Groups The diverse nature of the Groups markets, customers and the territories in which it control, such as external global economic conditions, operates, together with appropriate contingency planning, helps to mitigate the impact markets or territories, as well as natural disasters, may on the business of such changes and events.
impact the Groups performance and its ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
Foreign currency risk The Groups results are reported in Sterling.
Due to the The Groups hedging policy to mitigate the short-term currency risk is managed Groups geographically diverse operations and export bythe Currency Committee and is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report from the UK of 97% of sales, which are primarily onpage 43. denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen, fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and these currencies could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
22 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
