c I o d n e t r n e k o t h l i s f t s i y y r a i f r f i s t e s f n r u o a e r u r q t Q g u h i e r r e d t s h Q y k e f u i s n a t i n e n Strategic Report: How We Manage Risk HOW WE MANAGE RISK The risk agenda We operate in a complex global environment, where risks offer opportunities as well as challenges.
Our objective is to allow our people to be decisive, so we can take advantage of attractive opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing the organisation to excessive risk.
During 2013, the Board agreed a Risk Appetite Statement for the Group.
The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement is to highlight the risks that we should be willing to take, as well as those which are unacceptable.
The Risk Appetite Statement includes a series of risk assertions which are aligned to our strategy, together with the risk parameters within which we expect our people to work.
The risk appetite is all of the risk assertions and the parameters taken together.
The parameters can apply to more than one risk assertion, therefore the individual risk assertions should not be read in isolation.
Compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement is monitored through the Groups standard monitoring and reporting mechanisms.
The Board will review and update the Risk Appetite Statement on an annual basis.
Details of the review of the internal control and risk management systems undertaken during the year are contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 79.
Risk management The management of risks is at the core of the internal control framework.
We have a risk management policy which defines how we expect risks to be identified, assessed, and managed throughout the organisation.
Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both before and after control mitigation.
Assessing the gross risk before control mitigation also allows the business to review the relative impact of the existing controls by comparing the gross and net risk assessment.
This also allows the business to avoid wasting resources on mitigating controls and actions which have a negligible impact on the risk assessment.
The impact of risks is quantified across a range of factors including: financial: reputation: people and property: ability to perform services: regulation: environment, health & safety: and investors and funding.
The risk management policy includes defined criteria for each risk impact factor, supporting a consistent measurement approach.
Risk management takes place at the grassroots level, for example in individual projects, all the way up to Group level assessments, thereby providing an integrated bottom-up and top-down approach to risk management.
Figure 1: Risk management cycle The specific risks identified across the business generally fall under one of the categories within the Risk Universe as shown below.
Strategic Hazard risk Operational risk Industry and market Compliance risk downturns.
Political and Financial risk social instability.
Laws and Natural disasters Delivery and and other major regulations.
Planning and Debt and Communication.
Figure 2: Risk Universe 24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 r e t t e i r f d i I h y s t k I I d d e e m m ii n n t t t ii t t r ii g g f f r o a a y y o p t t t ii t t i e n n n h h r g g e e o d c c M e e o o n x x n n a ii t t s s r r t t o o ii ll n n s s g g Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters.
Our response to such risks is having controls which lessen the impact to our business should they occur.
For example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers.
Risk appetite statement The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with long term high growth potential.
We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the parameters below.
Organic growth: We will aggressively pursue divisional organic Investment of resources will be consistent with divisional strategies growth strategies to meet our market growth objectives.
and divisional compound annual growth rates over five-year plans.
Mergers and acquisitions: We will actively pursue M&A Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within three years opportunities that enhance our strategic platform subject of the acquisition.
Returns and profitability: We will not pursue growth at all costs Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry and expect high margins, strong returns on capital and working but over the cycle we aim for top quartile operating margins and capital discipline.
Capital allocation: We will encourage capex in pursuit of our Planned IRR on capital expenditure projects should not be less growth ambitions subject to Internal Rate of Return IRR and than 20%.
achievement of Group free cash flow targets.
C apital structure: We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt EBITDA below two times of our growth agenda and will actively seek low cost debt to current financial covenants 3.5 times.
fund the Group but will maintain significant headroom against Maintain financing facility headroom of at least 150m.
Reputation and brand image: We will manage avoid situations No tolerance for breaches of: or actions that could have a negative impact on our reputation Legislative statutory requirements.
Environment, health and safety EHS : We will not undertake Total Incident Rate 1 and EHS Audit Score 40%.
or pursue activities that pose unacceptable hazard or risk Active community and environmental engagement is expected.
to our people, the communities in which we operate, or the No tolerance for breaches of Weir EHS system.
New entry to countries: We are prepared to enter new No tolerance for breaches of: countries which offer opportunities for growth consistent with Legislative statutory requirements.
We will not enter countries which present Weir Code of Conduct.
a high risk of harm to our people, damage to our reputation, International sanctions.
or breach of international sanctions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Policies and decisions Strategic Report: How We Manage Risk HOW WE MANAGE RISK CONTINUED Risk responsibilities and reporting Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the Groups risk and internal control framework.
It has set out the decisions, and hence the level of risk, which can be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and operational company management without requiring escalation.
This is articulated in a series of Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as the parameters within the Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 71.
The bottom-up risk reporting requires key risks identified, and reported, at project level to be escalated to the operating company management, which in turn may be escalated to divisional management, and ultimately to the Risk Committee and the Board.
This is achieved through risk dashboard reports, which are maintained at operating company, divisional and Group level.
The dashboards provide a summary of the top ten net risks at each respective level, as well as a summary of the key mitigating controls and actions, and further control actions required.
The Risk Committee monitors quarterly risk dashboard reports from the operating companies and divisions.
In addition, the Risk Committee has oversight of the Group Risk Dashboard, providing an update to the Board at each Board meeting.
The Board obtains assurance over risks through the internal control framework.
More information on the internal control framework can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 67 and in the Audit Committee Report on page 82.
Board and sub-committees Group Executive Risk Committee Divisional management Operating company management Figure 3: Risk responsibilities and reporting 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Reporting Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below: Risk management responsibilities Board Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal Annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management, control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group.
risk appetite and internal control frameworks.
Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to review the effectiveness Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management of the Groups risk and internal control frameworks.
Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee Management committee responsible for governance of the Groups Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Risk Management Policy and Framework.
Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification of the key controls mitigating those risks, and identification of further actions where necessary.
Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identified risks, and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive Executive committee with overall responsibility for managing the Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery Group to ensure we achieve our strategic objectives.
of the Groups strategic objectives.
Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating to strategic objectives.
Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Excellence Committees Engineering Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated Environment, Health & Safety with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Finance Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, HR policies and standards related to the respective remits of the IT Excellence Committees.
Manufacturing Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Planning Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Purchasing Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Value Chain Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Divisional management Responsible for managing the businesses within the divisions Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery to ensure divisional strategic objectives are achieved and there of the Divisions strategic objectives.
is compliance with Group policies and standards throughout Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, their division.
policies and standards within the divisions with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management Responsible for ensuring company objectives are achieved and Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery business activities are conducted in accordance with Group of their companys strategic objectives.
Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards within their company.
Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Strategic Report: How We Manage Risk HOW WE MANAGE RISK CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there may be unforeseen issues which could impact the Groups ability to achieve its objectives in the future.
However, we believe the Groups risk management framework makes this less likely.
The principal risks set out below are those which we believe to have the greatest potential to impact our ability to achieve the Groups strategic priorities.
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Global, economic and market conditions Changes in key We need to remain sufficiently flexible to allow us to We maintain regular engagement with our customers markets, including meet growth in demand when our customers markets to understand their needs and challenges, and mining and are buoyant and therefore capital investment is high, ensure our business is appropriately aligned.
upstream oil and and equally foresee downturns and or instability Our strategic planning utilises extensive market gas, and or political in territories, to allow us to adjust our operations intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities conditions have accordingly.
Otherwise, we are at risk of not maximising and dips in markets, as well as potential political an adverse impact our potential for growth in buoyant markets, and and social instability in regions.
on customers incurring unnecessary costs during downturns.
We maintain contingency plans for downturns expenditure plans.
and exits from unstable regions.
This may include delaying existing expenditure commitments.
Technology and innovation We fail to drive The strength of our business is built upon a history of Continual investment in research and development, innovation to ensure delivering innovative and sustainable solutions for our including the Weir Advanced Research Centre in that the business customers.
If we fail to keep abreast of market needs conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
continues to deliver or to innovate solutions we are at risk of losing market We have a dedicated governance team Engineering sustainable and share to our competitors and lowering margins as Excellence Committee focussed on the delivery of attractive solutions demand will reduce.
our strategic objectives for technological advances for our customers.
and innovation in manufacturing practices to meet the needs of our customers.
Environment, health & safety EHS Failure to adequately We operate in hazardous environments, and therefore The Weir EHS Management System is in place protect our have a fundamental duty to protect our people and other to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
In addition, people and other stakeholders from harm whilst conducting our business.
there are initiatives to prevent the most common stakeholders from As well as the personal impact on our people resulting accident types.
The Weir global EHS standards are harm associated from a failure to meet this obligation, we would also be continually reviewed.
with a breach in at risk of: The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for EHS standards.
reputational damage leading to a loss of business: monitoring performance and compliance with Group legal action from regulators including fines and objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS.
penalties: and There is a formal EHS assurance programme exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
with issues escalated as required through the reporting structures.
28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Ethics and governance Interactions with our We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt The Code of Conduct, supplemented with people, customers, behaviour from our people, or external parties acting Group policies on related topics, provides a clear suppliers and other on our behalf, whilst conducting our business.
If we benchmark for how we expect our business will stakeholders are fail to act with integrity we are at risk of: be conducted.
not conducted reputational damage leading to a loss of customers: Regular training is provided using a range of with the highest increased scrutiny from regulators: mechanisms including Town Hall style sessions, standards of integrity legal action from regulators including fines, penalties online and induction training.
which devalues and imprisonment: and The financial control framework is continually our reputation.
exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
Internal Audits remit includes regular review of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial controls across the Group.
The Group legal team is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct.
A Group-wide crisis management plan has been developed and rolled out across the organisation and is subject to periodic testing and regular review.
Supply chain We fail to adequately Our supply chain is dependent upon a number of factors There is an established engagement framework manage the supply including having sufficient manufacturing capacity, with key suppliers.
chain thereby access to raw materials and key components, integrated Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain reducing our sales and production planning, and skilled people.
If we throughout the organisation.
ability to meet fail to meet the delivery targets agreed with customers as The Value Chain Excellence Committee monitors customer demand a result of a failure in the supply chain we risk: performance and compliance with Group objectives, in an economic and damaging our reputation and as a consequence policies and standards relating to procurement.
losing customers and market share: Centres of Excellence have been established to incurring penalties as a result of late delivery drive efficiencies and enhance delivery standards contractual clauses: and whilst maintaining quality.
reducing margins by incurring unnecessary additional There is a developing Group-wide approach to costs associated with late remedial actions taken to inventory control, sales and operational planning.
Political and social risk Adverse political We operate across the globe and therefore have Regular review of market attractiveness.
action, or political to work within a wide range of political and social Monitoring travel by Weir employees to higher and social instability, conditions.
Adverse events may occur in the territories risk locations.
in territories in in which we operate that may require us to act swiftly External expert risk assessments and which we operate to protect our people, property and to maintain our regular monitoring in higher risk locations.
Expansions into new territories are Contingency plans and exit strategy planning.
strategic, financial only undertaken after rigorous assessment of the or personnel loss risks, including the social and political situation within to the Group.
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories Inadequate planning Acquisitions and expansions into new territories are The strategic planning process includes market and management only undertaken after rigorous review and identification and competitive position assessments to drive of the integration of expected synergies, cost savings and growth the acquisition agenda.
However, there is a risk that these benefits Comprehensive due diligence is performed on processes impacts may not be achieved, or may not be achieved within the all potential acquisitions.
the ability to anticipated timescales, thereby tying up the Groups We have a formal 100 day integration plan with generate growth funds in investments with insufficient returns.
There is dedicated integration directors and managers opportunities, also a risk that we could be left liable for past acts or appointed to oversee and manage the full synergies and cost omissions of the acquired businesses without adequate integration programme.
savings within right of redress.
We seek to secure appropriate legal protection expected timescales.
against potential liabilities and to secure rights of redress against sellers where such liability arises.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Strategic Report: How We Manage Risk HOW WE MANAGE RISK CONTINUED Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk IT security and continuity Failure to maintain Up-to-date data allows us to make informed decisions We continually review the effectiveness of our business systems about our business.
Therefore we require reliable and key IT security controls in consultation with or technical efficient IT systems and infrastructure to provide our external experts.
Breaches of our IT security could There is regular reporting of IT incidents and potential serves the business have serious consequences for our business including: security breaches, with lessons learned across needs.
Failure to interruption to business operations: and the Group.
adequately protect loss of intellectual property and other valuable data.
Significant and ongoing investment in the IT the business infrastructure and key systems.
operations from The Group is investing in a significant IT transformation We have an IT Governance Framework with a focus cyber crime.
If this is not managed effectively the on structured change management techniques, consequences could include: including setting project governance levels in line the business becomes too internally focussed whilst with risk.
the change is under way, and we fail to maintain our Full time programme and project team appointments, focus on delivering for our customers: and with adequate succession planning for internal interruption to business operations if data is appointments.
unavailable due to unsuccessful execution of change.
Regular programme and project monitoring.
All of which could impact our ability to compete and our External assurance being obtained on major reputation in the market.
IT transformation projects reporting through Internal Audit.
Close liaison with UK Government bodies in regard to cyber crime risk.
Cost competitiveness Failure to deliver Customers are increasingly focussed on the price There is continual focus on maximising the efficiency cost competitive competitiveness of products and services as they of our products to ensure the solutions provided to products and seek to lower operating costs.
If the Group fails to customers deliver the best overall value, allowing our services, or failure demonstrate the value of our products and services customers to meet their cost reduction strategies to deliver sufficiently it risks losing market position.
through lower energy costs and improved productivity.
differentiated Centres of Excellence are driving cost efficiencies, products and whilst maintaining quality.
services which justify Expansion of production in best cost locations, a price premium including foundry expansions in Malaysia and through lowest total South Africa.
cost of ownership We regularly monitor market activity to ensure we value propositions.
30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
