Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Risk management 34 Risk management Structure The starting point for the assessment The structure of the risk management process at Whitbread of risks at Whitbread is the Companys is shown in the diagram on page 35.
Both Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and Costa maintain risk matrices aligned to business model.
Risks are linked their own business model.
These matrices analyse the risks to each component of the business to the achievement of each businesss strategic goals and prioritise those risks as low, medium or high based on both model as shown below.
the likelihood and potential impact of each risk.
The matrices, together with controls and mitigating actions, are reviewed on a regular basis by the management board of each business.
The outputs of the process carried out by the businesses form the basis of the risk matrix for the Group.
The most significant businesslevel risks are included in the Group risk matrix, together with other risks that are specific to the Group.
The Group risk matrix is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Board and annually by the Audit Committee.
The process: links risks to the Groups business model and strategic Risks linked to strategy objectives: Health and safety risks analyses risks based on likelihood and potential impact: outlines key controls and mitigating actions: and ensures that risks and controls are reviewed quarterly and updated as necessary.
Reputational risk The risk and control matrices form the basis of the annual Market risk assurance plan, which provides for the independent testing of controls and mitigating actions by Ernst & Young, NSF an independent health and safety auditing company, Financial risk the Companys internal control evaluation process or PwC as part of the operational audit programme.
Thirdparty risk Operational risk Food provenance Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Risk management 35 Risk management continued The current status In total, there were 21 risks 2012: 18 risks identified on the Group risk matrix considered by the Audit Committee in March 2013.
After taking account of the controls and mitigation plans the Audit Committee and the Board considered that 15 of the risks either had a low likelihood of occurring or a low potential impact.
For this reason, these 15 risks have not been categorised as principal risks for the purposes of this Report.
The six principal risks identified, together with details of controls, mitigation and assurance plans are summarised on pages 36 and 37.
Two of these risks are considered to have a high likelihood of occurring.
The first is the risk of a serious food provenance issue, which has increased during the year due to the Europewide problems with the processed meat supply chain.
This issue has been given significant focus and we have strengthened our testing and traceability regime as a result.
The other risk deemed to have a high likelihood Safe everyday is the loss of key employees who have been targeted by Nothing could be more important than recruitment consultants.
We have taken action to ensure that our key employees understand the benefits of staying with the safety of our teams and customers.
the Company, both in terms of development opportunities and longterm remuneration benefits.
Whitbreads risk management structure Whitbread Group risk matrix Reviewed quarterly by the Executive Committee and the Whitbread PLC Board and annually by the Audit Committee Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants risk matrix Costa risk matrix Reviewed quarterly by the Whitbread Reviewed quarterly by the Costa Hotels & Restaurants Management Board Management Board Operational audit and internal controls evaluation Scope agreed by Audit Committee to address key risks identied and carried out by PwC and management Reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Risk management 36 Risk management continued Principal risks Risk Mitigation controls Monitoring and assurance Current trend Health and safety risk: The expertise of members of the NSF, an independent company, Stable serious health or procurement, food development carries out regular audits on provenance issue and safety and security teams.
all suppliers to measure their relating to food.
performance against a range of health and safety standards.
Stringent food safety policies and a detailed sourcing policy.
Health and safety is a hurdle on the WINcard.
Regular New traceability and testing updates are provided to the requirements introduced in respect management boards and of processed meat.
Focus now on predicting other potential issues in the supply chain.
Market risk: Actions to outperform the Relative market share Premier Inn improvement in competitor competition are developed information and timely trading Stable financial health and or on a strategic and tactical basis.
performance data is produced competitor activity can result Significant customer research is and monitored by the executive Restaurants in a loss of market share.
carried out with Premier Inn, for teams and the Board.
Stable example, receiving more than 800,000 responses in 2012 13.
Costa The customer insight received Improving is used to develop action plans.
Consumer trends, both in the UK and overseas, are analysed and competitor activity is monitored.
Monthly reports are produced by each business for the Board.
Financial risk: The Companys defined benefit The Pensions Director Stable significant increase pension scheme is closed to new and the external pensions in the pension schemes members and, for future service, advisers to the Company report actuarial and or statutory to existing members.
The Pension regularly to the Board on the deficit resulting in higher Investment Committee and its funding level and investment pension contributions advisers, as well as the internal strategy of the fund.
or the rerating of the pensions team, have significant Companys credit.
expertise in the area and provide good quality oversight.
The investment strategy has been designed to reduce volatility and risk and hedging opportunities are utilised as appropriate.
The Finance Director attends Pension Investment Committee meetings.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Risk management 37 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation controls Monitoring and assurance Current trend Stable Thirdparty risk: Credit control checks are carried Asset management team thirdparty failing and out on parties to significant and credit controllers monitor consequently breaching contracts, along with the continued risks.
There is a regular review the terms of a significant auditing and monitoring of those of the debtors registers by the contracts.
Regular reviews are carried management boards.
Financial contract or giving rise to a privity of out on the potential for privity of controllers review status at contract claim.
contract claims and, when they are half and fullyear.
received, all efforts are made to lessen the financial liability through negotiation with the landlord or sale of the lease.
Operational risk: It is important that the Company The Group HR function Stable loss of key employees.
continues to offer key employees monitors the number of appropriate levels of reward and key employees leaving the recognition in order to retain them.
Company and conducts The Companys programme of exit interviews to development and talent planning understand the reasons.
Succession plans are reviewed regularly.
Operational risk: The expertise of the IS team in Systems are continually Stable data security breach protecting the systems and network.
resulting in the loss, IS security training has been The disaster recovery plans or improper access delivered to employees.
Legal are reviewed by the Audit advisers monitor new legislation Committee.
to, customer or confidential data.
Quality everyday We have stringent food safety policies and a detailed sourcing policy, which give us confidence in the quality of our products.
