William Hill PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 managing our risks hoW do We manage our risks?
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to determine and execute appropriate responses to the potentially significant risks to be addressed in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
These actions are taken in the context of a defined risk appetite which has clear standards and definitions andwhichisreviewed annually by the Board.
This is supported by a structured risk management process as defined below.
The Board routinely monitors risks that could materially and adversely affect William Hills ability to achieve strategic goals, financial condition and operational results, supported by executive management and the Risk and Audit function.
Risks are identified and monitored through a series of risk workshops and risk registers, both at the Group level and within the key divisions.
Where we identify risks outside of defined appetites, we develop action plans to mitigate the impact of them with clear allocation of responsibilities.
Progress is monitored atthe executive level and reported upon to the Boards Audit and Risk Committee.
An annual assessment is also conducted and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee as to the effectiveness of the risk management processes for the year.
Below is a summary of what the Boards assessment and response to the principal risks facing William Hill.
A more extensive list of risks is provided in the investor relations section of our corporate website at www.
An explanation ofhow the Group manages its various financial risks is provided in Note 22 to the Accounts.
Area of risk Whats the issue?
What are we doing to address the issue?
Our continued internationalisation, alongside We actively engage with both the UK Government and opposition UK and developments in the domestic regulatory parties to discuss the measures by which we fulfil our obligations overseas landscape, presents continually evolving under the licensing objectives in the UK, in terms of protecting the regulation regulatory challenges to the Group.
At the same vulnerable particularly by setting standards in promoting responsible time, the regulatory position in online gambling gambling, keeping crime out of our business and behaving in a fair and is changing rapidly, particularly in Europe where responsible manner towards our customers.
several countries are implementing tax and In 2013, we established with the rest of the British retail betting industry regulatory regimes.
The European Commission the voluntary ABBCode, which shares best practice on the provision is also reviewing its Money Laundering Directive of responsible gambling information, interactions with customers and it has been suggested in its latest directive and tools to enable customers to better control their gambling in the in draft that this be extended to encompass betting shops.
betting shops for the first time.
This directive also At an international level, we continually monitor the changing legal applies to all our European licensed businesses, landscape and adapt our strategy on a country-by-country basis including Gibraltar.
Our scale and position within to changes in regulation.
A high proportion of Onlines revenues are the market sets the expectation that William Hill derived from licensed territories, which mitigates risks associated with will be a leader in regulatory compliance and operating in territories without specific licensing regimes.
Senior management are responsible for regulatory issues and work with an internal team and various industry bodies to build relationships with political decision-makers and to make representations to governments.
The Group actively engages in relevant government consultations, such as the stakes and prizes review undertaken in 2013.
In the current economic climate, governments The Group actively engages in relevant government consultations.
UK and may seek to tax the gambling industry more For instance, we supported reports by Deloitte and Gambling overseas to increase their revenues.
In addition, many Compliance to help inform HM Treasury about the implications of taxation governments are introducing new taxation different online taxation models.
and duties regimes as they change regulations to take As a Group, we are seeking to reduce our exposure to the UK, which account of online gambling.
In particular, accounted for 85% of 2013 revenues down from 91% in 2012, by the expected introduction of the UK Point of investing selectively in other territories.
Consumption tax will drive changes to the We are already preparing for the expected introduction of the Point dynamics of operating in the UK online market.
of Consumption tax in the UK in December 2014.
While we believe this represents an opportunity for William Hill, as a scale operator, to take market share from other operators who are weakened by the imposition of the tax, we are also reviewing ways to offset some of the additional cost through savings across the Group.
The Group is dependent on a number of key We have strong, active working relationships with key strategic Key supplier suppliers for operations, software, systems, andsoftware partners, with identified executives managing relationships marketing and customer services in both Retail key relationships.
Contractual, operational or financial All significant contracts and service level agreements go through failures could cause significant damage to the arobust procurement process to ensure terms and service levels business and multiple supplier failure would be a provide effective protection for the business.
catastrophic issue for the business.
We monitor key supplier performance and processes are under reviewto strengthen this further.
William Hill PLC 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Area of risk Whats the issue?
The Groups continuity of operation could be Business continuity planning and disaster recovery are regularly Business reviewed by executive management and the Board.
impaired, for example by a technology failure continuity or terrorist attack.
In particular, the Group Plans have been or are being put in place for all key operations and disaster including, where appropriate, the provision of alternative sites that is reliant on extensive IT systems and, if our recovery primary systems failed and back-up systems couldbe accessed at short notice.
Back-up IT systems have been put in place for a number of business preparedness were ineffective, our ability to offer products and pricing to customers could be seriously critical systems, generally in different geographic locations from the curtailed or shut down altogether.
The growth of main system.
However, this is not intended to be a full duplication of the Online highlights the need to ensure that Onlines operational systems as this would not be cost effective so some day-todisaster recovery capability evolves at the same day activities could be curtailed should an incident occur.
pace as the live system evolution.
Investment is currently planned for 2014 to upgrade disaster recovery systems for Online to further enhance capabilities and minimise business interruption in the event of an incident.
The UK accounted for 85% of Group revenues We perform extensive analysis of different markets and closely UK and in 2013.
While this is reducing as a result of monitor regulatory changes in different countries to identify expansion international our international expansion strategy, it remains opportunities.
The Corporate Development Office, reporting to the growth a substantial proportion of our revenues and Group Finance Director, manages lead identification and M&A support, opportunities increasing our UK market share continues to be such as the US acquisitions and the Australia acquisitions.
a key growth driver in our shortand mediumOnline is targeting its international expansion on a small number term strategy.
Globally, a number of governments of territories primarily where we can take a local licence, ensuring are changing or considering changing their focused investment of marketing spend in priority markets.
regulation of gambling, which could present Acquisitions made in Nevada and Australia give the Group a foothold in opportunities for William Hill to expand.
new markets and reduce our dependence on the UK.
We continue to invest in product channel offerings to make our products attractive to customers.
The risk of cyber attacks, distributed denial of The Groups Retail, Telephone and Online divisions are compliant with Data protection service DDoS or unauthorised access is a key the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and we regularly and technology issue for the industry and the wider online world.
test the effectiveness of these systems.
risk In addition, failure to comply with regulations Online undertakes regular external security scans and has controls in regarding the use of personal customer data place to mitigate the effects of DDoS attacks against our systems.
could risk litigation or damage to our corporate We also continue to increase our capabilities to protect our systems reputation.
The impact of such events could against attacks.
increase as we continue to promote the use of online and mobile products.
We have to ensure we have robust processes A Group-wide review determined the design and operating Regulatory for meeting the British Gambling Commissions effectiveness of the compliance operations and reporting.
compliance A specific review, with third party validation, assessed the risks in our three licensing objectives and for complying with all the regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions Online operation and to ensure that preventative controls for William Hill US are effective.
Continuing changes in regulation, particularly of online gambling, could We adhere to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 in the UK and online gaming is a regulated sector for money laundering.
We have dedicated result in a regulatory breach and sanctions if not identified in a timely manner and result in regulatory and compliance teams within the business and we have a number of processes to detect and report suspicious activity, and to damage to our reputation.
Technology solutions put in place to block access to customers from handle requests for assistance from law enforcement agencies and regulators, all of which is overseen by the Groups Money Laundering certain jurisdictions may fail.
Failure to detect money laundering or fraudulent activities could Reporting officer.
adversely affect our financial condition.
The William Hill Group is an increasingly complex Overall, the Group provides good salary and benefits packages, Recruitment organisation with operations in nine different including short-term bonuses and long-term share-based incentives, and retention of countries across the world.
Our success is driven and regularly reviews these for competitiveness.
key employees through the development and retention of a All employees are encouraged to become owners of the business and succession focused leadership team and a number of skilled through annual Save-As-You-Earn programmes.
specialist employees throughout our business.
Where appropriate, reward and retention packages are put in place planning The development of this population of key with individuals at risk of being targeted by headhunters.
employees and the appropriate recruitment and The Board has visibility to key leadership arrangements through integration of new talent to supplement this team the Remuneration Committee and undertook a thorough review of underpins our growth strategy, as well as the executive and senior management remuneration in 2013. need to ensure appropriate succession plans are Over the last three years, the Group has conducted an annual talent developed and monitored to support our growth review process.
In 2013, this involved the top 240 managers across the in the longer term.
The Group regularly reviews the levels of employee engagement through an annual employee survey and implements specific action plans to address areas of improvement.
A process is underway to identify a successor for the Chief Executive as Ralph Topping has indicated his intention to retire by the end of 2015.
This process, which is being led by the Chairman and the Nomination Committee, is reviewing both internal and external candidates.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
