William Hill PLC 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of intangible assets identified in current year We used our own valuations specialists to assist us with our acquisitions audit work on the underlying assumptions and methodology prepared by managements external advisers, which are The current year acquisitions of Sportingbet and used for the identification and valuation of acquired intangible tomwaterhouse.
com in Australia were significant, and the assets.
This included discussions with managements valuation of the associated intangible assets requires complex advisers, evaluating the valuation techniques used, assessing valuation techniques dependent on significant management the reasonableness of underlying assumptions such as judgement.
discount rates and growth rates, comparing these with those used by other market participants and comparing the results of our work with managements own fair value estimates.
Where appropriate, we re-performed sensitivity analyses.
We also evaluated the adequacy of the related disclosures in note 16 to the financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets We reviewed and challenged the calculations performed by management as part of their impairment reviews and the The annual impairment test is a complex process requiring appropriateness of the underlying assumptions which they significant management judgement and is based on used.
We assessed the budgets used in the Groups assumptions about future profitability.
forecasts having regard to previous years results and considered the accuracy of prior year forecasts against the current years results, the appropriateness of the discounted rate used by management through comparison to previous years and those used by similar entities, and performed a sensitivity analysis on the underlying assumptions.
We also considered whether there was any evidence which brought into question the assumption that certain of the Groups intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Revenue recognition including the completeness and We tested the operating effectiveness of manual and valuation of antepost revenue deferral automated controls in the revenue cycle including cash reconciliations from the betting operating system and cash The appropriate identification and subsequent valuation of all held at a sample of licensed betting offices.
We recalculated open bets in place at the year end has a material impact on the amount and validity of revenue recognised on a sample revenue recognised in the period of bets placed during the year and where appropriate assessed whether the open bets were included in the fair value of antepost liabilities.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities We worked with our own actuarial experts to test the assumptions used by management in valuing the Groups The pension scheme represents an area of significant defined benefit pension scheme liabilities such as discount judgement for the financial statements, particularly in relation rate, inflation and mortality rates and compared those to the assumptions adopted such as discount rate, inflation, assumptions to industry benchmarks and prior years rates and mortality rates.
Valuation of corporation tax provisions We worked with our own tax specialists in different jurisdictions where William Hill has significant operations to The way in which William Hill organises its operations in review the calculations for current and deferred tax balances different jurisdictions requires management to exercise a using their experience of similar structures and operations.
degree of judgement as to the way that these corporation tax We also considered correspondence with the various tax laws should be interpreted and the way in which they interact.
The Audit and Risk Management Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 38 of the Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
