e s t a e c v i i n t c u 3 e m j b M m o o i t c d i n g d a a n t a y e g p r e i o l t s k e a v r s e t s D 1 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Managing risks and uncertainties D E G Our approach to risk management Business change Risk As with all businesses, we face risk and The Group is undertaking a number of major change programmes that will significantly impact existing ways of working.
There is a risk that the business fails to build the capacity and capability to support business changes resulting uncertainty, which could impact the in service disruption or unintended costs.
The Board has Mitigation Organisation Design structures and support established for multi-channel overall accountability for ensuring that and other change programmes.
Multi-channel governance structure exists including Business Design Authority.
risks are effectively managed across the Group, and that there is a system D Business interruption for internal control.
The Management Risk Board is responsible for implementing Our distribution and systems infrastructures are fundamental to ensuring the normal continuity of trading in our stores.
If a major incident occurred and maintaining the system of controls.
to this infrastructure or another key facility, this could have a detrimental impact on our ability to operate effectively.
Managing the risk Mitigation Recovery plans exist for individual sites.
management process Investment in remote IT disaster recovery site and regular testing of recovery plans for key systems.
Adherence to a stringent process for evaluating new suppliers third parties.
The Board believes a successful risk management framework Contingency arrangements documented for key suppliers.
balances risk and reward, and applies reasoned judgement Annual crisis simulation exercise.
and consideration of likelihood and impact in determining the Groups principal risks.
The Groups risks are reviewed regularly and updated as appropriate.
D G Business strategy Risk Effective long term management of the Groups strategic risks will deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
The Board understands that, if the strategy and vision are not properly formulated, communicated or implemented, then the long term aims of the Group may not be met and the business may suffer.
Mitigation Strategy development led by the Chief Executive and senior management with Main Board scrutiny and approval.
Engagement with a wide group of stakeholders to ensure the strategy remains current.
Strong governance Communication of strategy via numerous channels.
Clear link between strategic targets and business plans to drive implementation.
Close Board monitoring of business performance.
D G Colleague engagement and retention Risk We are a people business and our 129,000 colleagues make it happen for our customers.
If we fail to retain, develop and motivate our colleagues, we will not provide our customers with the quality of service they expect.
Our strategy informs the setting of objectives across the Competitive employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages established.
business and is widely communicated.
Significant investment in training and development, including Morrisons 2.
Risks are identified by colleagues fro m all business areas Academy and Coaching for Performance programmes.
through a variety of mechanisms, including facilitated Regular talent reviews and refresh of succession plans to meet the future needs of the business.
The likelihood and impact of identified risks Climate and Pulse surveys undertaken to understand and respond to is considered and captured.
Responsibility for actions to mitigate risks is delegated to appropriate colleagues within the business, and risks and controls are recorded in the functional risk registers.
The Management Board considers the risks reported in the functional risk registers and, with assistance from Risk and Internal Audit, prepares a Group risk register.
This is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
28 2 I d e n t r i s o f n y t i o n a i o t n c m d a d f e n o v a s a l s w e u e c a i t c v e e u R s r i s 4 k s Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements D D Customer proposition Regulation Risk Risk We operate in a highly competitive industry and our customers shopping habits The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations to ensure are influenced by broader economic factors that our business does not control.
the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, colleagues and other If we fail to keep our proposition aligned with customers expectations, then they stakeholders, and the operation of an open and competitive market.
These may choose not to shop with us and sales will suffer.
regulations include alcohol licensing, health and safety, the handling of hazardous materials, data protection, the rules of the stock exchange and Mitigation competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, Insight team provides data and analysis to help identify customer needs and and recognises that breach of regulation can lead to reputational and financial wants which inform product ranging, marketing, advertising and the location damage to the Group.
Regular review of positioning against competitors.
Mitigation Clear accountabilities for compliance with all areas of regulation exist.
Policies and procedures designed to accord with relevant laws and regulations, including GSCOP and Competition Law training.
D Health and Safety and Compliance Steering Group together with the Financial and treasury Management Board and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee oversee compliance with regulatory requirements.
Risk The main financial risks that the Group is exposed to relate to the availability of funding, the loss of a financial counterparty and the uncertainty produced by fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
All of these things have the D Reputation potential to undermine the Groups ability to finance its trading activities and its financial results.
Risk Mitigation Morrisons is committed to taking good care and, if we fail to act as a responsible Treasury Committee controls activities in line with Board approved policies corporate citizen or misjudge the mood of the nation, this could damage our and procedures and reports twice a year to the Audit Committee.
reputation and, therefore, potentially lose the trust of our stakeholders and Hedging and derivatives used to control risk and protect the business rather increase costs.
Board approval of budgets and business plans.
Mitigation Morrisons Values embedded into colleague Performance Development Review PDR process.
Corporate Responsibility policies, targets and key performance measures D Food and product safety clearly defined and integrated into operational management activities.
Responsible Sourcing Group, Management Board and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee oversee delivery against targets.
Risk External assurance of Morrisons Corporate Responsibility report.
If we fail to deliver excellent standards of hygiene and safety in our products, Further information is available in our Corporate Responsibility report at there is a potential to harm our customers and damage our business reputation.
co. uk cr Our business focuses on fresh food and we have a vertically integrated business model: therefore, food safety is of paramount importance.
Mitigation D G Strict standards and monitoring processes established to manage food safety Space optimisation risks throughout the Group and supply chain.
ISO22000 accreditation of food manufacturing businesses.
Risk Regular supplier assessments undertaken to ensure adherence to standards.
The business is growing the size of its retail space through acquisition and Stock withdrawal procedures operate throughout our supply chain to minimise by modernising and extending existing stores and facilities.
If we fail to grow the impact to customers of any supplier recalls.
our space profitably, we will lose market share and earnings will suffer.
Food Safety Steering Group, Management Board and Main Board provide oversight of operational activities.
Mitigation Property strategy develops stores to a well proven format.
Formal capital approval process, overseen by the Investment Board.
E G IT systems Risk A number of existing systems are approaching the end of their useful lives and the Group is investing significantly in a multi-channel technology platform.
Morrisons is aware of the risks faced by any organisation seeking to successfully design and implement new systems.
Mitigation We partner with some of the worlds leading technology companies for key projects.
Change in the level Project management methodology The Method used to manage delivery.
of risk from 2011 12 Regular reviews undertaken by Risk and Internal Audit and other specialists provide assurance over Evolve and multi-channel programmes.
Key to strategic objectives D Delivering the topline E Increasing efficiency G Capturing growth 29
