Risk management and internal control management, are consolidated at GroupLevel 2 A focus on the risks that matter level to identify organisation-wide impacts Corporate oversight functions monitor As the Group responds to changing and trends.
Action plans are established activity and performance and support the customer needs and market conditions, so and updated, with clear allocation of businesses to ensure that objectives are does its system of risk management and responsibilities for their completion.
met whilst operating within the desired internal control.
Some risks, such as those The four levels of defence against which we risk tolerance of the Group.
Examples in relating to IT, have inherently increased review significant risks are shown below: 2012 13 include: with the pace of technological innovation.
Others, such as employee risks, are t testing of branch health and safety selfLevel 1 reducing as the Group invests further in its assessments by a central health and people, their performance and customer Front line business operations conduct safety or audit team: service.
In response to these changes, their daily tasks in compliance with the t monitoring the implementation of new the Group has strengthened its existing Groups dened policies and procedures business models: controls in some areas and introduced and in accordance with the Code of newprogrammes of work in others.
Practices are adapted as t the use of monthly financial reporting required in line with changing risk levels checklists by Finance teams to highlight How are risks identied and the emergence of new operational areas of non-compliance to business unit risks.
For example, in 2012 13, specic Finance teams: andreported?
front line actions have included: t monitoring of fraud incidents to highlight A dedicated Group Head of Risk and t greater scrutiny of the safety and trends and introduce new controls: and Compliance works with a network of Risk integrityof our products: Directors across the Groups businesses t reviews of risks and controls in the Groups to continuously improve risk management.
t testing and improvement of controls to principal e-commerce businesses.
A six-monthly risk assessment is prevent fraud, bribery and corruption: conducted by each business unit and t reviewing and strengthening all Group central functions.
The risk management systems forhealth and assessment includes a standard set safety in all of the Groups businesses: of risk categories and risk denitions, which are rened with each reporting t employee engagement surveys cycle.
Structured rating scales are used completed for a third year in to define the level of risk the Group is all businesses.
A reporting tool automates the assessment using standard criteria and the evaluation of gross and net risks.
All risk assessments, once reviewed by local Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Front line Corporate Independent Oversight and business oversight assurance direction from operations functions and testing the Board and managing risk monitoring that controls its Committees.
as planned, e. g. internal or external audit.
Wolseley plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Level 3 significant risks The UK business Independent assurance and testing has Economic downturn been carried out by the Groups Internal instandards Pressure on margins Audit team and external organisations.
During 2012 13, the Internal Audit team certication Litigation has reviewed and tested controls in a number of areas including health and hat-trick Systems and infrastructure capabilities safety compliance: financial payment andresilience Two UK business units, along with controls: rebate calculations and supplier the operational headquarters, contract terms: compliance with the Employee motivation and retention have achieved three prestigious Groups product-related policies and environmental, health and safety New business models ethics programme which addresses and quality certications.
the requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
Governmental regulations External testing has been undertaken Drain Center and Integrated Services on payment controls, health and safety have been awarded OHSAS 18001, compliance in some of our Central ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certication The materialisation of these risks could European businesses and the accuracy by the British Standards Institution have an adverse effect on the Groups ofenvironmental data reporting.
OHSAS 18001 certication, an results or financial condition.
If more than assessment series for health and safety one of these risks occur, the combined Level 4 management systems, demonstrates overall effect of such events may be an organisations awareness of health The Board regularly monitors the compounded.
Various mitigation strategies and safety legislation and a commitment implementation of strategy and the are employed to reduce these inherent to continuous improvement and will financial performance of the Group.
risks to an acceptable level these are help control occupational health and In July 2013 the Board discussed and summarised on the following pages.
In addition, Drain Center, determined the extent to which they Integrated Services and the UKs Some risk factors remain beyond the were willing and prepared to take risk.
operational headquarters hold ISO direct control of the Group and the The Board receives frequent reports 14001 and ISO 9001 certication, which riskmanagement programme can only related to the Groups top risks, see displays a commitment to reducing provide reasonable but not absolute following pages for details.
On behalf environmental impact and ensuring assurance that key risks are managed of the Board, in March and September superior quality management.
each year the Audit Committee reviews had to meet specic criteria to achieve key risks and controls and how they have The Group faces many other risks the standards, such as showing an been managed in practice.
The Audit which, although important and subject enhanced knowledge of health and Committee receives reports on the findings to regular review, have been assessed safety law, controlling waste and setting from internal audits.
More information on as less significant and are not listed targets for continuous improvements the activities undertaken by the Board here.
These include, for example, major that are meaningful and achievable.
and its Committees, including the Audit incidences of fraud, bribery or corruption Committee, is contained in the Governance or health and safety related risks.
Further information on financial risks and their management is contained on page 41.
More information on health and safety can significant risks facing be found on page 53. thebusiness The nature of the industry in which we operate and our chosen strategy expose the Group to a number of risks.
There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders.
The Board has considered the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
These key risks, their level and trend are summarised in the tables overleaf.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Risk management and internal control continued Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Economic downturn The Groups results depend on the levels The Group believes it has effective measures in place to respond of activity in new construction and property to market conditions.
Our mitigation strategy is to reinforce repair and remodelling markets.
In light existing measures in place.
These include: Inherent risk level of the suppressed market conditions in High t the development of our business models: Europe and Canada, there continues Trend Stable to be a risk that markets may uctuate t resource allocation processes: rapidly or experience further downturns.
t planning, budgeting and forecasting processes: Factors inuencing this risk include: t cost reduction, pricing and gross margin management t the general rate of GDP growth: initiatives, including a focus on customer service and t consumer confidence: productivity improvement: t the availability of credit to finance t improvements in monthly management information: customer investment: t diversication into other sectors which present new t mortgage and other interest rates: opportunities: and t the level of government initiatives to t further restructuring of the Groups operations in markets stimulate economic activity: withsuppressed levels of economic activity.
These factors are out of the Groups control and are difficult to forecast.
Traditional processes for producing management information may need enhancing to enable the Group to respond to such rapidly-changing markets.
Pressure on margins Market conditions in many geographies The Group continues to strengthen mitigation actions already in continued to drive greater competition place.
Gross margin improvement initiatives remain a priority for during the period under review.
Inherent risk level mitigated, this could lead to downward High We believe that high levels of customer service and product pressure on sales prices and profit margins.
Trend Stable availability play a fundamental role in maintaining competitive There is a risk that such competitive advantage.
The Group has continued with its programme of work pressures will continue and could be to improve levels of customer service and inventory.
exacerbated by factors such as the arrival A number of local initiatives have been undertaken by Wolseley of new competitors, customer or supplier businesses in the last 12 months, including: consolidation, manufacturers shipping directly to customers, other changes in the t the development of our business models: route to market, and changes in technology.
t continued focus on improving terms with our customers: and t improved compensation plans for sales teams in some markets.
Key High inherent risks Risk is rising Issue has been added to the list of Medium inherent risks Risk is stable topGroup risks this Low inherent risks Risk is falling year Wolseley plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Litigation The international nature of Wolseleys Levels of litigation are monitored by individual operating operations exposes it to the potential companies and by Group functions.
for litigation from third parties, and such Inherent risk level To reduce its exposure to product-related claims, the Group is exposure is considered to be greater in the Medium high reviewing the level of product-related risk in all business units.
Trend Stable This includes improvements in how we mitigate product-related Wolseleys strengths include its employees, exposures and how we monitor performance in this area.
its products and the terms it negotiates with Internal audits of rebate calculations and supplier contracts were its suppliers.
It is in these areas where the completed in 2012 13. potential risk of litigation may be greatest.
The Group has completed a review of its working practices in the During the year, there has been no material USA.
Improvement opportunities are being identied and will be change in the level of litigation to which the introduced during the next financial year.
For more information on specic litigation affecting the Group, see In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, Wolseley pages 111, 132 and 143. employs independent professional advisers to actuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has insurance which exceeds the current estimated liability relating to asbestosclaims.
Systems and infrastructure capabilities and resilience The Group can only carry on business as Core IT systems and data centres for the Groups material long as it has the information technology businesses, including the Groups principal e-commerce and the physical infrastructure to do so.
businesses, have documented disaster recovery plans which Inherent risk level aretested annually.
Medium The safe and continued operation of such Trend Risk is rising systems and infrastructure is threatened In the USA, significant improvements have been made in the by natural and man-made perils and is recovery times for core systems and our business there has been affected by the level of investment available certied as Payment Card Industry compliant.
For example: The Groups building materials business in France strengthened t the level and sophistication of IT security its IT disaster recovery capabilities during 2012 13. threats are increasing: The Group operates an IT governance framework including t some of the Groups businesses dedicated IT security policies.
Specic operational controls for IT are earning greater revenues via security include intrusion prevention and detection, penetration e-commerce channels: testing, wireless remediation of issues, log and conguration management and in-ight projects to reduce the likelihood of t some of the Groups physical assets an incident.
The Groups Chief Information Security officer has are located in areas exposed to natural this year undertaken a review of information security capabilities catastrophe risks: across the Group.
t we remain reliant on a number of different The loss of a physical site is naturally hedged by the diversied technology systems across the Group, nature of our locations, customers and suppliers.
some of which have been operating for many years: and The Group has formally documented and tested plans for those distribution centres, head ofce buildings and data centres where t to optimise costs and supply chain the risk is deemed to be greatest.
The UK business undertook a efficiency, some companies within the comprehensive review of its business continuity priorities during Wolseley Group have also centralised their the year and is addressing the findings.
distribution network and are therefore reliant on a smaller number of larger A comprehensive insurance programme is purchased, including distribution centres.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Risk management and internal control continued Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Employee motivation and retention Wolseleys ability to provide products and The Group monitors voluntary turnover rates and employee services to customers depends on retaining engagement scores.
Employee engagement scores have sufciently qualied, experienced and increased in almost all businesses and remain high compared Inherent risk level motivated people.
Medium Trend Risk is falling In order to increase productivity, and to be The People Strategy that was agreed by the Board in 2011 sets able to take growth opportunities when out key principles and practices for people management, which markets improve, Wolseley must maintain operating companies implement in their businesses.
the skills and experience of its existing Effective personal performance management underpins the employees and continue to develop the People Strategy.
The quality of individuals performance reviews managers of the future.
remains a high priority and is being monitored and improved While staff turnover rates are stable at in all areas of the business.
For more information on people present the current difficult conditions development, see page 52. experienced in certain markets, and the During 2012 13, future people needs were dened by each Groups response to them, may demotivate business and succession planning exercises were undertaken.
The Groups most talented and promising individuals are identied and continually developed.
Career mobility has been increased, providing more employees with the opportunity to work in different areas of the Group.
The Group believes that employee participation in community and charity events enhances employee skills and increases engagement levels.
These activities are actively supported acrossthe Group.
Specic examples of activity in business units includes a new Leadership Development Committee in Ferguson, USA and afast-track development programme in Wolseley UK.
New business models To respond to changing customer needs Each business unit has a clear strategy for continuously the Group is introducing new business developing its business model and a dened programme of work models.
This will involve the development to execute the strategy.
Inherent risk level of new technologies, updated exible Medium Programmes of work are dened, resourced and implemented employment patterns and different ways Trend NEW locally, according to customers needs and market conditions.
Businesses undergoing the greatest change have dedicated The Groups ability to successfully execute programme and change management capability with these changes will affect its ability to grow associated KPIs.
Progress in implementing these changes is reviewed during The Group must successfully implement theGroups regular performance management reviews, held by these changes without disrupting the Group CEO and CFO with each business unit.
Key High inherent risks Risk is rising Issue has been added to the list of Medium inherent risks Risk is stable topGroup risks this Low inherent risks Risk is falling year Wolseley plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Governmental regulations The Groups operations are affected by The Group monitors regulations across its markets to ensure that various statutes, regulations and laws in the the effects of changes are minimised and that compliance with countries and markets in which it operates.
allapplicable regulation is continually sought.
Inherent risk level The amount of such regulation and the Medium low During the year, the Group has undertaken a comprehensive penalties can change.
Trend Stable review of its anti-fraud, bribery and corruption practices.
While the Group is not engaged in a highly Improvements have been made to existing risk assessment regulated industry, it is subject to the laws anddue diligence procedures.
Further information on our ethics governing businesses generally, including programme and legal compliance can be seen on page 55. laws relating to competition, international The Group is well positioned to comply with the new regulation trade, fraud, bribery and corruption, land regarding carbon data reporting, having collected the relevant usage, zoning, the environment, health data for a number of years.
See page 58 for more information.
and safety, transportation, labour and employment practices including pensions, data protection, payment terms and othermatters.
The Groups compliance with laws to prevent anti-competitive behaviour and to combat bribery and corruption remain a priority.
Building codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products Wolseleys customers are allowed to use and, consequently, changes in these may affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
