How we comply Managing our risks Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has considered the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this report.
The Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the Group.
Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients The Group competes for Competitors include large multinational advertising Operating companies seek to establish clientsin ahighly-competitive andmarketing communication companies and regional reputations in the industry that attract and industry and client loss may and national marketing services companies, database retain clients, including by improving the have a material adverse effect marketing and modelling companies, telemarketers, quality of their creative output.
on the Groups market share social media and consulting internet companies.
The Groups different agency networks limit and its business, revenues, Service agreements with clients are generally terminable potential conflicts of interest and the Groups results of operations, financial by the client on 90 days notice and many clients put cross-discipline team approach seeks to condition or prospects.
their advertising and communications business up for retainclients.
competitive review from time to time.
The ability to Brand Check at every Board meeting.
attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount of work from existing clients may also in some cases belimited by clients policies on conflicts of interest.
The Group receives a A relatively small number of clients contribute a Global client account managers seek to significant portion of its significant percentage of the Groups consolidated ensure the Group maintains partnership revenues from a limited revenues.
The Groups 10 largest clients accounted for relationship with major clients.
Operating number of large clients and 17.8% of revenues in the year ended 31 December 2013. companies seek to establish reputations in the net lossof some of these Clients generally are able to reduce advertising and theindustry that attract and retain clients clients could have amaterial marketing spend or cancel projects on short notice.
adverse effect on the Groups Theloss of one or more of the Groups largest clients, Brand Check at every Board meeting and prospects, business, financial ifnotreplaced by new client accounts or an increase regular dialogue between directors of the condition and results of inbusiness from existing clients, would adversely affect Company and directors of the Groups operations.
Data Security The Group is subject to strict The Group may be subject to investigative or The Group assists the operating companies in data protection and privacy enforcement action or legal claims or incur fines, developing principles onprivacy and data legislation in the jurisdictions damages, or costs if the Group fails to adequately protect protection and compliance with local laws.
in which it operates and relies data or observe privacy legislation in every instance.
Nominated senior executives extensively oninformation Asystem breakdown or intrusion could have a material provideleadership on privacy technology systems.
The adverse effect on the Groups business, revenues, results anddataprotection.
Group operates on a largely of operations, financial condition or prospects.
decentralised basis with a Implemented a WPP Data Code of Conduct large number of different and new WPP policies on dataprivacy agencies and operating andsecurity.
entities and the resulting sizeand diversity of the Rolled out Group-wide WPP Data Health operational systems increases Checker which is an interactive survey to the vulnerability of such understand the scale and breadth ofdata systems to breakdown collected by WPP agencies, so level of risk ormalicious intrusion.
associated with this can beassessed.
182 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Economic The Groups businesses are Reduction in client spending or postponing spending Reduction in headcount and overheads.
onthe services offered by the Group or switching of client Ensuring that variable staff costs are a Many of the economies in expenditure to non-traditional media and renegotiation significant proportion of total staff costs which the Group operates of contract terms can lead to reduced profitability and andrevenue.
currently have significant cash flow.
Increased controls over capital expenditure economic challenges.
Strategic focus on BRICs, the Next 11, MINT, new media and data investment management.
Diversification by geographic and productmarkets.
Consideration of the impact on the Group if certain countries left the Euro, or in the event the Euro was devalued.
Brand Check at every Board meeting.
Financial Currency exchange rate The Companys reporting currency is pounds sterling.
The Group hedges the currency element of its fluctuations could adversely Given the Groups significant international operations, net assets using foreign currency borrowings, impact the Groups fluctuations in currency exchange rates can affect the cross-currency swaps and forward foreign consolidated results.
Thebalance sheet and cash flows of theCompany are hedged by borrowing in the currency of those cash flows.
The Company publishes and explains its results in constant currency terms, aswell asin sterling and on an actual dollar basis.
The Groups treasury position is a recurring agenda item for the Audit Committee.
The interest rates and The Companys long-term debt is currently rated Baa2 Active dialogue with the rating agencies to feespayable by the byMoodys and BBB by Standard and Poors and the ensure they are fully apprised of any actions Groupinrespect of certain Companys short-term debt obligations P2 and A2 that may affect the Companys debt ratings.
ofits borrowings are, in respectively.
If the Companys financial performance The Company also seeks to manage its part, influenced by the and outlook materially deteriorate, a ratings downgrade financial ratios and to pursue policies so creditratings issued by could occur and the interest rates and fees payable on astomaintain its investment grade ratings.
theinternational debt certain of the Companys revolving credit facilities and The Groups treasury position is a recurring ratingagencies.
certain of the Groups bonds could be increased.
agenda item for the Audit Committee.
The Group is subject to credit The Group is generally paid in arrears for its services.
Evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing risk through the default of a Invoices are typically payable within 30 to 60 days.
creditworthiness and in some cases requiring client or other counterparty.
credit insurance or payments in advance.
The Group commits to media and production purchases on behalf of some of its clients as principal or agent The Groups treasury position is a recurring depending on the client and market circumstances.
If a agenda item for the Audit Committee.
client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed as an agent on behalf of those clients.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 183 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Mergers & Acquisitions The Group may be The Group regularly reviews potential acquisitions of Business, legal, tax and financial due unsuccessful in evaluating businesses that are complementary to its operations diligence carried out prior to acquisition material risks involved andclients needs.
If material risks are not identified prior toseek to identify and evaluate material incompleted and future to acquisition or the Group experiences difficulties in risksand plan the integration process.
acquisitions and may be integrating an acquired business, it may not realise Warranties and indemnities included unsuccessful in integrating theexpected benefits from such an acquisition and the inpurchase agreements.
any acquired operations Groups financial condition could be adversely affected.
Audit Committee oversight of acquisition and withits existing businesses.
Board oversight of material acquisitions and review oftheintegration and performance ofrecent and prior acquisitions.
Goodwill and other intangible The Group has a significant amount of goodwill and Regular impairment testing which assets recorded on the Groups other intangible assets recorded on its balance sheet isarecurring agenda item for the balance sheet with respect to with respect to acquired companies.
acquired companies may tests the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles becomeimpaired.
The estimates and assumptions about results of operations and cash flows made in connection with impairment testing could differ from future results ofoperations and cash flows.
Future events could cause the Group to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation have become impaired whichcould have a material impact on the Groups financialcondition.
Operational The Group operates in 110 The Groups international operations are subject to Affiliate, associate and joint venture countries and is exposed to thefollowing risk factors: i restrictions and or changes structureswith local partners used the risks of doing business intaxation on repatriation of earnings: ii economic, indeveloping markets.
socialor political instability within different countries, Brand Check at every Board meeting.
regions and markets: iii changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, such as those on foreign Uniform approach to internal controls to ownership of assets or data usage or business models: seekto ensure best practice employed in and iv uncertainty or potential ineffectiveness or lack alljurisdictions.
ofenforcement in relation to the Groups client service agreements or othercontractual rights.
People The Groups performance The Group is highly dependent on the talent, creative The Groups incentive plans are structured to could be adversely affected abilities and technical skills of our personnel as well as provide retention value, forexample by ifit were unable to attract their relationships with clients.
The Group is vulnerable paying part of annual incentives in shares andretain key talent or tothe loss of personnel to competitors and clients leading that vest two years after grant.
hadinadequate talent to disruption to the business.
Operating companies seek to management and establishreputations in the industry successionplanning for thatattract and retain key personnel, keymanagement roles.
including by improving the quality oftheir creative output and by offering competitive performance-based compensation.
Succession planning of key executives isa recurring agenda item of the Boardand Nomination and Governance Committee.
Compensation Committee oversight for the Groups incentive plans and compensation.
184 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Regulatory Legal The Group may be subject Governments, government agencies and industry The Group actively monitors any toregulations restricting its self-regulatory bodies from time to time adopt statutes proposedregulatory or statutory changes activities oreffecting changes and regulations that directly or indirectly affect the form, andconsults with government agencies and in taxation.
content and scheduling of advertising, public relations regulatory bodies where possible on such and public affairs and market research or otherwise limit proposed changes.
the scope of the activities of the Group and its clients Regular briefings to the Audit Committee of which could have a material adverse impact on our significant regulatory orstatutory changes.
Changes in tax laws and international tax treaties or their application may also adversely affect Group representation on a number ofindustry the Groups reported results.
The Group may be exposed The Group works for a large number of clients across The Group seeks to comply with all lawsand to liabilities from allegations abroad spectrum of industries and end markets, industry codes governing marketing material.
that certain of its clients someofwhich may become subject to litigation.
Upward business approval procedure within advertising claims may be Asaconsequence of providing services to such clients, operating companies and to WPP ethical false or misleading or that theGroup may itself become involved as a defendant review meetings.
itsclients products may inlitigation brought against its clients by third parties, bedefective or harmful.
including its clients, competitors or consumers or governmental or regulatory authorities.
The Group is subject to strict The Group may be exposed to liabilities in the event of Online and in-country ethics and antianti-corruption and antibreaches of anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation briberyand corruption training on a bribery legislation and in all of the 110 countries in which it operates.
Group-wide basis to raise awareness enforcement in thecountries andseekcompliance with the WPP Code in which it operates.
Confidential helpline for WPP staff toraise anyconcerns which are investigated and reported to the AuditCommittee on a regularbasis.
Due diligence on selecting and appointingsuppliers and acquisitions.
Gift and hospitality register and approvalsprocess.
