40 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping achieve our strategic and operational objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 41 The Group risk committee, chaired by the ownership and management of risk This integrated process supports our the chief executive officer, oversees is not the exclusive responsibility of management in determining the the operation of the Groups risk senior management but is passed down appropriate level of risk for our operations.
management framework and provides to appropriate staff members This in turn supports and enables the support to the Board and the Audit organisation to identify, evaluate, all significant risks have owners, Committee.
control and own appropriate risks at mitigating strategies and, where actions the appropriate level.
This process also have been identified, assigned action This risk management framework ensures that: owners continues to support the Boards risk a common approach to risk operational risks are fully articulated and appetite when assessing and determining management continues to be adopted, subject to regular review, the nature and extent of the significant reducing inefficiency communication and reporting across the risks it is willing to accept in achieving organisation as part of our normal we operate in an environment and its strategic and operational objectives.
management process culture where both technical and commercial risk remain a key focus of This framework and the associated risk we operate in a culture that encourages management at appropriate levels in management structure support the early disclosure of issues or concerns, the organisation.
systematic identification, assessment, so that timely and appropriate action communication, reporting and can be discussed, agreed and The combination of both the risk management of risk at both strategic implemented as necessary.
framework and the commercial framework and operational levels, and seek to ensure provides the organisation with an that: It is intended that these principles and integrated risk management approach the risk management framework continue the public, employees and the in the evaluation, control and monitoring to be adopted throughout the Group, environment are safe from potential of risks.
without exception, to achieve progressive hazards inherent in our operations improvement in the effectiveness of the potential for damage to our We continue to manage a number of risk management processes.
The risk corporate reputation, or financial loss potential risks and uncertainties which management framework interfaces with to shareholders and other stakeholders, could have a material impact on our long the commercial framework which provides is minimised.
Many of these risks an integrated process for assessing the are common to other companies and level of risk for operational projects and The Board believes that for risk we assess them to establish the principal services, depending on scale and management to be successful, it must risks for the Group.
The following table complexity, applying a consistent method integrate the framework into all activities outlines these principal risks and the of evaluating risk.
This enables appropriate and develop a culture and behaviour mitigating activities we undertake in projects and services to be peer reviewed, within the organisation that ensures that: respect of each.
We continue to assess evaluated and the risks categorised.
these risks under two main categories the management of risk is clearly driven of strategic risk and operational risk.
by business strategy and objectives Group functions assist and support Effective risk management continues to be management in setting minimum embedded in our governance framework, standards across the Group which is summarised in the Corporate Governance Report pages 64 to 75.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 42 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Economic outlook We have increased our sector and geographic We have already reshaped our business Continuing and increased government diversification to provide resilience at a time when to target more than 50% of our revenue austerity measures impact our trading many of our markets still experience uncertainty.
Our long term goal is to performance as spending on public We have a clear strategic priority to focus on sectors generate more than 75% of revenue from sector infrastructure is reduced.
which have attractive growth prospects with good our non-UK and Energy businesses.
Worsening economic conditions lead We continue to focus on funded markets to reduced levels of private sector We actively seek to redeploy staff around the Group in targeting growth and evaluating infrastructure spend and adversely to meet demand in growth markets and sectors, investment opportunities.
impact our clients ability to pay for frequently moving work to people and people to work.
We have added resilience to our UK We perform client credit checks and maintain regular business through its ongoing support management reviews of credit terms, trade debtors to non-UK projects.
Pages 16-19 Financial We review the Groups trading and funding position In 2012 we announced the successful The deterioration of the Groups on an ongoing basis.
execution of the Groups debut issue in the financial position limits our ability to US private placement market which has invest in growth.
We have made good progress in implementing our broadened the Groups sources of funding strategy to continue to fide-risk our defined benefit to support future growth.
Adverse movements in liability pension schemes.
We will continue to actively manage assumptions or asset values result in the assets and liabilities of our pension schemes.
During the year we completed an a significant increase in the Groups Enhanced Transfer Value ETV exercise for defined benefit pension obligations, deferred members of the Atkins Pension increasing the cash funding required to Plan to reduce its ongoing liabilities and repay the deficit and reducing our ability future volatility.
to invest in further growth opportunities.
Pages 44-49 Pages 36-39 Our strategy process includes evaluation Geo-political We focus on geographies that have more stable Political instability in the regions within trading environments.
of the political stability of the regions and territories we operate, or propose which we operate has a negative impact on our ability to deliver contractual We obtain the latest professional risk and security to operate in.
information before engaging in contracts in new services, receive payment and endangers the safety of our staff.
geographies and continue to monitor the stability of the markets in which we trade.
Market We have robust integrated review procedures, which We continue to drive operational Worsening economic conditions lead include peer reviews, during the bidding and performance across the Group to improve to changes in contracts resulting in contracting stage of our projects.
increased risk transfer from clients as competitors accept more onerous We have focused our strategy on sectors with strong We continue to embed our integrated contract terms to win work.
growth prospects, good levels of funding and high project review procedures across our technical barriers to entry.
Reductions in the amount of available work increase pricing pressure and We have a strategic focus on operational excellence, Initiatives such as our operational reduce our operating margins.
excellence programme, together with the increasing use of our Bangalore and Delhi operations, aim to deliver a competitive cost base.
Pages 10-13 Regulatory Legal We seek ongoing external advice about new Our bid review process reviews regulatory Legislation and regulations restrict our and or changing trading restrictions, communicating issues as we peer review bids in unfamiliar ability to operate in certain locations these changes across our business.
or perform certain activities leading to the need to exit these markets.
We continue to invest in staff training and communication.
Breaches of regulation or legislation result in fines, imprisonment and reputational damage.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 43 Effective risk management continues to be embedded in our governance framework www.
com investor-relations Operational Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Crisis event We have a robust Group crisis management plan in The robustness of our plan continues to be A significant one-off event affecting place to respond quickly to such events.
a key business location, project or employees could interrupt service delivery, threaten life and or cause reputational damage to our business.
Health, safety and environmental Safety is part of our commitment to quality and Our worldwide safety awareness Shortcomings in our design or works reliability.
Clear and explicit senior management programme, Safe by Choice, is just one supervision result in a health, safety or leadership on health, safety and environmental matters example of our commitment to creating environmental incident involving staff, is regularly reinforced via targeted campaigns.
a leading health and safety culture.
clients or other third parties leading to injury, loss of life and or significant We have implemented our safety standards worldwide.
The existence of our whistleblower hotline damage to our reputation with all is communicated across the business with stakeholders.
We mandate accident and near miss reporting and any issues arising from it being reported provide a whistleblower hotline to enable staff to to the Audit Committee.
We continue to invest in staff training and communication about the importance of safety and Corporate Responsibility.
Pages 50-57 security in the work place.
Physical and data security We use appropriate physical security, secure networks We continue to provide information Confidential client business and personal and encryption in order to protect data.
assurance training modules for our UK data is mishandled, resulting in breach and non-UK based staff.
of contract, the inappropriate release We train staff on best practice in information assurance.
of commercially sensitive information or the loss of the personal information The Group security officer seeks to ensure best practice of our clients and or employees.
and raise the profile of security across the business.
Our business systems suffer an attack We obtain independent professional risk and security from hackers or viruses.
information for countries we propose to operate in or travel to.
Political instability in the regions within which we operate threatens the safety of our employees.
Projects We have augmented our Business Management We continue to invest in project Poor management of projects leads to Systems through the introduction of a new online management capabilities across the client dissatisfaction, damage to our project management system to drive consistently high Group people, processes and systems.
reputation for technical excellence and standards across the Group.
a deterioration in the Groups financial performance.
We continue to invest in ongoing project management excellence training programmes for our staff.
We continue to improve project controls which include Human Resources Review.
Pages 44-49 regular financial reviews of project performance.
Staff recruitment and retention Regular management reports and business reviews A new online platform My Career is being Failure to attract and retain the most evaluate a number of metrics including headcount, rolled out to all regions during 2013 14. talented, motivated professionals in their retention, vacancy levels and employee engagement.
This will support a consistent approach to respective fields makes us unable to staff performance reviews, training, career deliver on clients expectations and Regular staff performance appraisals are performed planning and development.
respond to the most technically identifying strengths, weaknesses, training needs and challenging and time critical projects career development.
Engagement is essential in a people based thereby eroding our market share and business.
We continue to use a variety of damaging our financial performance.
channels, including our annual Viewpoint survey, to communicate and engage with Human Resources Review.
Technical delivery We have robust review procedures during the bidding Design errors or omissions lead to client and contracting stage to ensure that the Group has the dissatisfaction, financial losses, damage capability to deliver the scope of work.
to our technical reputation and market position.
Ongoing technical training and development is in place.
Network Chairs have been appointed to establish technical centres of excellence across the Group.
The Group has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
