Risk management Protecting future value Effective risk management is key to our Competition maximising returns over objectives and can only provide reasonable success against the characteristics both of the long term in the target application and not absolute assurance with respect to the industry that we operate in and within through early adoption to achieve a the preparation of financial information and our chosen business model.
Our industry, market-leading position and then the safeguarding of assets and against being the world of print, is, in general, retention of that position material misstatement or loss.
declining in terms of total output, tends Operations having the appropriate In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the to be capital intensive, is slow to react to manufacturing arrangements and other UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board change and is resistant to the adoption of operational structures in place.
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the new technology.
Product lifecycles tend The first approach to managing these risks Groups system of internal control.
Our business model is reliant is to have high quality individuals within the Boards monitoring covers all controls, on us first driving the conversion of wellnecessary functions that these risks tend to including financial, operational and established processes to our technology, fall into.
Other examples of the effective day compliance controls and risk management then maintaining our market position to to day management of these risks include systems.
It is based principally on reviewing maximise sales through both the initial operating multi-functional teams to share reports from management to consider conversion cycle and replacement sales knowledge across the business, having whether significant risks are identified, in order to generate profits to enable us regular stage gates in the management of evaluated, managed and controlled and to invest in new technology and open up development programmes, and the regular whether any significant weaknesses are new applications.
assessment of manufacturing capacity promptly remedied and indicate a need for Our risks are set out in more detail in a table against future potential needs.
In addition more extensive monitoring.
The Board has on page 25 but the key risk areas can be to day to day processes the Groups risk also performed a specific assessment for identified as being associated with the register is formally reviewed twice per the purpose of this annual report.
This following: year at senior management and Board assessment considers all significant aspects level, including the assessment of the of internal control arising during the period Opportunity identification selection performance of risk management during covered by the report.
The Audit Committee and identification, and selection of the the preceding period.
assists the Board in discharging its review appropriate end applications for responsibilities.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of conversion and defining correctly the UK Corporate Governance Code During the course of its review of the risk the market requirements, including by establishing a continuous process for management and internal control systems, time scales identifying, evaluating, and managing the the Board has not identified or been advised Development successfully developing significant risks the Group faces which has of any failings or weaknesses which it has a product with the characteristics that operated throughout the year and up to determined to be significant.
Therefore a meet the market requirements the date of this report.
Such a system is confirmation in respect of necessary actions Adoption working with OEMs and designed to manage rather than eliminate has not been considered appropriate.
other partners to achieve adoption of the risk of failure to achieve business the technology in the target application 24 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risk and Impact Mitigation uncertainty Product sales into established Lower than anticipated revenues are Competitive pricing policies are employed.
applications fail to deliver achieved resulting in excess production The product portfolios and pricing of competitors are constantly sustained revenue growth capacity and lower levels of profit.
due to competitor activity, and associated market share Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established to ensure loss, market maturity or other that products remain competitive.
Close customer relationships are maintained with supply agreements in place where appropriate.
New product variants are developed to constantly improve the product portfolio on offer.
Product sales into new Lower than anticipated revenues are Regular reviews of OEM partners are held to ensure that appropriate applications fail to achieve achieved resulting in excess production and extensive market coverage is achieved together with a focus on their targets.
capacity and lower levels of profit.
New products and product variants are developed to meet market requirements.
Competitive pricing policies are employed.
Manufacturing cost reduction programmes are established to ensure that products remain competitive.
New products fail to achieve Longer term revenue and profit Regular, specific and detailed reviews are held to assess current and their targets through either a is impacted.
These reviews include input from failure to identify the appropriate customers and other external sources.
Product developments are products to meet future market selected on appropriate criteria.
Product development activity is properly requirements, or the products managed with regular reviews of progress against project plans, and are identified but are not gated milestone reviews.
Appropriate resource is applied to product successfully developed in time development activity.
or to the required specification.
Manufacturing output fails to Demand is not satisfied resulting in Detailed sales forecasts are prepared and reviewed regularly to minimise meet demand due to supplier lower levels of revenue and profit.
unexpected changes in short term demand.
Suppliers are managed issues, an event at one of the carefully.
Appropriate sourcing, inspection and inventory holding policies Customers may start purchasing or manufacturing facilities, delays are applied to ensure continuity and consistency of product supply.
increase their level of purchasing with or problems associated with Appropriate contingency factors are applied to capacity planning.
Xaars competitors, leading to a longer production equipment, a lack of Manufacturing facilities are fitted with the appropriate safety and term reduction in market share, revenue manufacturing capacity, or for security systems.
Significant and sustained Lower levels of revenue in the short term Standard operating procedures are in place for all products.
Staff are quality problems are identified whilst the issues are resolved.
The quality of supplies is constantly monitored.
Quality with products which have been Unexpected costs associated with performance is regularly reviewed by senior management who apply sold or which are held in resolving the issues, which may include appropriate resources to systematically address recurrent problems.
product scrap, warranty costs and or New products are thoroughly tested before launch.
Potentially and UK manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 accredited.
Customer longer term revenue loss if customers returns are reviewed quickly using a consistent and thorough start purchasing or increase their level investigation process.
of purchasing with Xaars competitors.
