DIRECTORS REPORT PRInCIPal RISKS the Groups principal risks are identified below, together with adescriptionofhowthe Group mitigates those risks.
HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Defence spending MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is dependent on defence spending.
Description Impact efforts to reduce the uS governments budget the Groups core businesses are primarily A decrease in defence spending by the Groups deficit are expected to continue to impact defence-related, selling products and services major customers could have a material adverse government spend.
A bipartisan budget proposal directly and indirectly, mainly to the uS, uK, effect on the Groups future results and financial was approved in December 2013 that mitigates Saudi Arabian and other national governments.
the full impact of the Sequester for 2014 and Defence spending depends on a complex mix of 2015. the Group expects lower defence spending mitigation political considerations, budgetary constraints, than previously programmed, but the cuts are not the Groups business is geographically spread and the ability of the armed forces to meet expected to be as significant or indiscriminate as across uK, uS and international markets and its specific threats and perform certain missions, they would have been under Sequestration.
products are marketed across a range of defence and, as such, may be subject to significant markets.
the Group has a highly sustainable notwithstanding the continued pressure on fluctuations from year to year.
With constraints services business, which is an area for growth many areas of government spend in the uK, the on government expenditure in a number of the as customers operations and maintenance outlook for the Groups uK defence business Groups markets and countries in the eurozone budgets come under pressure.
area experiencing serious financial difficulties, continues to use realistic assumptions to In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to affordability continues to be a key focus for underpin its financial and operational planning.
dictate that defence remains a high priority.
For more information on the Groups multiple markets see page 14 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Government customers MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Groups largest customers are governments.
Description As a result of these audits and reviews, costs mitigation Companies engaged in the supply of defence and prices under these contracts may be subject the Group regularly reviews performance in its and security-related equipment and services to adjustment.
markets and the executive Committee continues togovernment agencies are subject to certain to work closely with the government customers Impact business risks particular to the defence and in these markets to ensure the Groups strategy the termination of one or more of the contracts security industries.
these governments could is aligned with theirs.
for the Groups programmes by governments, modify contracts or terminate them at short thefailure of the relevant agencies to obtain In the event of a customer termination for notice and at their convenience.
For example, expected funding appropriations for the Groups convenience, the Group would typically be paid long-term uS government contracts are normally programmes, or a deterioration in the Groups for work done and commitments made at the funded annually and are subject to cancellation relationship with any of its key government time of termination.
Having sovereign or delay if funding appropriations for subsequent customers and corresponding reduction in governments as major customers offers the performance periods are not made.
terms and contract awards, could have a material adverse benefits of dealing with mature procurement risk sharing agreements can also be amended.
effect on the Groups future results and organisations with which the Group can have In addition, the Group, as a government financialcondition.
long-standing business relationships, and contractor, is subject to financial audits and well-established and understood terms of trade.
other reviews by some of its governmental customers with respect to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, government contracts.
For more information on the Groups strategy see page 7 106 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepORt 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Global market MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group operates in a global market.
Description governments could expropriate the Groups mitigation BAe Systems is a global company which assets: and burdensome taxes or tariffs could the Group has a balanced portfolio of conducts business in a number of regions, be introduced.
including the Middle east, and, as a result, Impact assumes certain risks associated with the occurrence of any such events could have businesses with a broad geographical reach.
In amaterial adverse effect on the Groups future some countries, these risks include, and are not results and financial condition.
limited to, the following: political changes could lead to changes in the business environment in which the Group operates: economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances could disrupt the Groups business activities: government regulations and administrative policies could change quickly and restraints onthe movement of capital could be imposed: For more information on the Groups multiple markets see page 14 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Contract award timing MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is dependent on the timing of award of defence contracts.
Description Impact mitigation the Groups profits and cash flows are Amounts receivable under the Groups defence the Board regularly reviews the Groups dependent, to a significant extent, on the timing contracts can be substantial and, therefore, the performance with regard to contract awards, and of award of defence contracts.
timing of awards, or failure to receive anticipated the executive Committee actively manages the awards, could materially affect the Groups assets and resources of the Group in line with profits and cash flows for the periods affected.
For more information on the Groups major programmes see page 37 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Large contracts MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR Certain of the Groups businesses are dependent on a small number of large contracts.
Description mitigation the Group has a well-balanced spread of A significant proportion of the Groups revenue to mitigate risk on uK Ministry of Defence programmes and significant order backlog, comes from a small number of large contracts.
contracts, development programmes are whichprovides long-term visibility.
the Board each of these contracts, which are primarily in normally contracted with appropriate levels regularly reviews the Groups performance the platforms & Services uK and platforms & ofrisk being initially held by the customer.
onthese large contracts and the executive Services International reporting segments, is Subsequent production programmes are priced Committee continues to work closely with typically worth or potentially worth over 1bn.
when a platforms development has reached therelevant customers to ensure the Groups sufficient maturity.
A variety of contract strategy is aligned with theirs.
Impact structures are used to mitigate risk on the loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation production programmes, such as incentive ortermination of any one of these large arrangements, whereby the customer and contracts, for any reason, could have a material contractor share cost savings and overruns adverse effect on the Groups future results against target prices.
For more information on the Groups order backlog by major programme and reporting segment see page 37 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepORt 2013 107 D DIIRE REC CT tO OR RS S R RE EP PO OR RT t PRINCIPAL RISKS HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Fixed-price contracts MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group has fixed-price contracts.
Description Impact contract-related risks and uncertainties, A significant portion of the Groups revenue is the Groups failure to anticipate technical contracts are managed under the Groups derived from fixed-price contracts.
An inherent problems, estimate costs accurately or control mandated lifecycle Management lCM process risk in these fixed-price contracts is that actual costs during performance of a fixed-price at the operational level.
performance costs may exceed the projected contract may reduce the profitability of such Robust bid preparation and approvals processes costs on which the fixed prices for such acontract or result in a loss.
are well established throughout the Group, with contracts are agreed.
these contracts can mitigation decisions required to be taken at the appropriate extend over many years and it can be difficult to the Group has reduced its exposure to level in line with clear delegations of authority.
predict the ultimate outturn costs associated fixed-price design and development activity the consistent application of metrics is used to with the terms on which they are based.
which is in general more risk intensive than support the review of individual contract fixed-price production activity.
For more information on lCM which mandates project management processes see page 69 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is dependent upon component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers.
In addition, some products require which could have a negative impact on the the Group is dependent upon the delivery of relatively scarce raw materials.
the Group is Groups future results and financial condition.
materials by suppliers, and the assembly of generally subject to specific procurement mitigation components and subsystems by subcontractors requirements which may, in effect, limit the the Groups procurement function, which is led used in its products in a timely and satisfactory suppliers and subcontractors it may utilise.
In by a member of the executive Committee, is manner, and in compliance with applicable terms some instances, the Group is dependent on one responsible for establishing and managing and conditions.
or a limited number of suppliers.
If any of these end-to-end integrated supplier arrangements.
suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet the Impact the executive Committee continues to monitor Groups needs, the Group may not, in the short Some of the Groups suppliers or subcontractors this risk and the Group has experienced no term, have readily available alternatives, thereby may be impacted by the economic environment material negative impact to date.
the Group impacting its ability to complete its customer and constraints on available financing, which reviews the financial health of strategically obligations satisfactorily and in a timely manner, could impair their ability to meet their obligations important suppliers globally on an ongoing basis.
For more information on suppliers see page 118 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Laws and regulations MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Internal and external market the Group has contracts and operations in many Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, risk assessments form an important element of parts of the world, operates in a highly regulated marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf the ongoing corporate development and training environment, and is subject to applicable laws to comply with these laws and regulations could processes.
and regulations of many jurisdictions.
these result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities A uniform global policy and process for the include, without limitation, regulations relating to resulting in significant fines and penalties, and appointment of advisers engaged in business import-export controls, money laundering, false or result in the suspension or debarment of the development is in effect.
accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott Group from government contracts for some pursuant to its commitments concerning ongoing provisions.
non-compliance could expose the period of time or suspension of the Groups regulatory compliance made in the course of the Group to fines, penalties, suspension or export privileges.
2011 settlement with the uS Department of debarment, which could have a material adverse mitigation State, the Group appointed a Special Compliance effect on the Group.
From time to time, the During the year, the Group has continued to Official in 2011 for a period of not less than Group is subject to government investigations addresources dedicated to legal and regulatory three years to monitor the Groups compliance relating to its operations.
compliance in order to enhance further its with its commitments under that settlement and capability to identify and manage the risk of its compliance obligations going forward.
For more information on the Groups approach to business conduct see page 112 108 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepORt 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Competition MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Groups business is subject to significant competition.
Description In some instances, governments direct to Impact the Groups businesses are subject to asingle supplier all work for a particular the Groups business and future results may competition from national and multi-national programme, commonly known as sole-source beadversely impacted if it is unable to compete firms with substantial resources and capital, programmes.
Although governments have adequately in the markets in which it operates.
andmany contracts are obtained through a historically awarded certain programmes to mitigation competitive bidding process, including contracts theGroup on a sole-source basis, they may in the Groups global, multi-market presence, where the Group is the current incumbent.
the future determine to open such programmes balanced portfolio of businesses, leading to a competitive bidding process.
Government the Groups ability to compete for contracts capabilities and performance continue to contracts for defence and security-related depends in particular on: the strength of its address this risk.
In particular, the Group invests products and services can, in certain countries, intellectual property rights and technical in research and development, continues to be awarded on the basis of home country know-how: the effectiveness and innovation of reduce its cost base and improve efficiencies, preference.
its research and development programmes: its and has the mandated lifecycle Management ability to offer better programme performance process that promotes the application of best than its competitors at a lower cost to its practice programme execution.
customers: and the readiness of its facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programmes for which it competes.
For more information on the Groups multiple markets see page 14 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Pension funding MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Description In future, the growth of the defined benefit In August 2013, with the support of the the Group operates certain defined benefit liabilities is expected to be curtailed as follows: trustees of the BAe Systems pension Scheme, anddefined benefit defined contribution hybrid the Group launched a pension increase With effect from April 2012, new employees pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, exchange, offering pensioners the option to inthe uK are offered defined contribution there is an actuarial deficit between the value exchange increases on part of their pensions pension benefits rather than the previous ofthe projected liabilities of these schemes for higher immediate non-increasing pensions.
defined benefit defined contribution hybrid andthe assets they hold.
For those who take up the offer, all future pension benefits: inflation risk to the Group is removed in respect Impact With effect from January 2013, all employees of part of their pensions.
exchangeable the amount of the deficits may be adversely in the uS are offered membership of a defined pension forms approximately 50% of the affected by changes in a number of factors, contribution scheme 401 k and no longer schemes pensions in payment and the option including investment returns, long-term interest accrue salary-related benefits in defined was given to approximately 18,000 pensioners rate and price inflation expectations, and benefit schemes: in 2013.
It is expected that, once the exercise anticipated members longevity.
Further increases concludes, the take-up rate amongst this in pension scheme deficits may require the Group In February 2013, with the agreement of the group will be approximately one-third.
to increase the amount of cash contributions Company, the trustees of the BAeSystems payable to these schemes, thereby reducing 2000 pension plan entered into an cash available to meet the Groups other arrangement with legal & General to insure operating, investing and financing requirements.
against longevity risk for the current pensioner population, covering 2.7bn of pension mitigation scheme liabilities.
In December 2013, similar Following triennial funding valuations of the arrangements were entered into, with legal & Groups two largest uK pension schemes in General, by the trustees of the Royal Ordnance 2011, revised deficit recovery plans were agreed pension Scheme and Shipbuilding Industries in 2012. the performance of the Groups pension Scheme, covering 0.9bn and 0.8bn pension schemes and deficit recovery plans are of pension scheme liabilities, respectively.
regularly reviewed by both the Group and the these arrangements will reduce the funding trustees of the schemes, taking actuarial and volatility relating to increasing life expectancy: investment advice as appropriate.
the results of and these reviews are discussed with the Board and appropriate action taken.
For more information on the Groups pension accounting and funding valuations, and deficit recovery plans see page 162 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepORt 2013 109 D DIIRE REC CT tO OR RS S R RE EP PO OR RT t PRINCIPAL RISKS HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Export controls and other restrictions MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is subject to export controls and other restrictions.
Description Impact mitigation A portion of the Groups sales is derived from Reduced access to export markets could have the Group has formal systems and policies in theexport of its products.
the export of defence amaterial adverse effect on the Groups future place which are mandated under the Operational and security products outside the jurisdictions results and financial condition.
Failure to comply Framework to ensure adherence to regulatory inwhich they are produced is subject to licensing with export controls and wider regulations could requirements and identify any restrictions that and export controls, and other restrictions.
no expose the Group to fines, penalties, suspension could adversely impact the Groups activities.
assurance can be given that the export controls or debarment, which could have a material to which the Group is subject will not become adverse effect on the Group.
more restrictive, that new generations of the Groups products will not also be subject to similar or more stringent controls, or that political factors or changing international circumstances will not result in the Group being unable to obtain necessary export licences.
For more information on exports see page 14 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Acquisitions MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be achieved.
Description Impact mitigation the Group considers investment in the diversion of management attention to the Group has established policies in place value-enhancing acquisitions where market integration efforts and the performance of tomanage the acquisition process, monitor conditions are right and where they deliver on theacquired businesses below expectations theintegration and performance of acquired itsstrategy.
Whether the Group realises the could adversely affect the Groups business, businesses, and identify potential impairments.
anticipated benefits from these transactions andcreate the risk of impairments arising on depends upon the successful integration of goodwilland other intangible assets.
theacquired businesses, as well as their post-acquisition performance in the markets inwhich they operate.
For more information on the Groups recent M&A activity see page 173 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Consortia and joint ventures MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is involved in consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings where it does not have control.
Description Impact mitigation the Group participates in various consortia, joint In the event of failure or disagreement within a the Group seeks to participate only in ventures ventures and equity holdings, exercising varying consortium, joint venture or equity holding and in which its interests are complementary to degrees of control.
the risk of failure or the risk the business arrangement failing to meet its those of its partners, and has formal systems of disagreement, particularly in those that strategic objectives or expected benefits, the and procedures in place to monitor the require the unanimous consent of all members Groups business and future results may be performance of such business arrangements.
with regard to major decisions, is inherent in any adversely affected.
For more information on the Groups principal joint ventures see page 153 110 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepORt 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Exchange rates MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
Description Impact mitigation the global nature of the Groups business Significant fluctuations in exchange rates In order to protect itself against currency means it is exposed to volatility in currency towhich the Group is exposed could have a fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge exchange rates in respect of foreign currency material adverse effect on the Groups future allmaterial firm transactional exposures, denominated transactions, and the translation results and financial condition.
unlessotherwise approved as exceptions by ofnet assets and income statements of foreign thetreasury Review Management Committee.
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments.
the Group does not hedge the translation the Group is exposed to a number of foreign effectof exchange rate movements on the currencies, the most significant being the uS income statement or balance sheet of foreign dollar, euro and Saudi Riyal.
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments itregards as long-term investments.
For more information on financial risk management see page 176 HIGH IMPACT CUS CUSTO TOMER FOCUS MER FOCUS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Cyber security MEDIUM IMPACT PROGRAMME EXECUTION RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR the Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
Description Impact mitigation As a defence, aerospace and security company, Failure to combat these risks effectively could the Group has a broad range of measures the security threats faced by the Group include negatively impact the Groups reputation among inplace, including appropriate tools and threats to its information technology its customers and the public, cause disruption techniques, to monitor and mitigate this risk.
infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access toits business operations, and could result in to its proprietary or classified information and anegative impact on the Groups future results the potential for business disruptions associated and financial condition.
For more information on the Groups Cyber & Intelligence reporting segment see page 43 Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
