STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Risk ManageMent Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
of the Groups risk management policy are Project risks are reported and monitored in Board that risks are monitored continuously, Group-mandated format Contract Review The Board has overall responsibility for associated action plans reviewed, appropriate Packs, which are reviewed by management determining the nature and extent of the contingencies provisioned and this atmonthly Contract Reviews.
The financial significant risks it is willing to take in achieving information reported through established performance of projects is reported and its strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks management control procedures.
monitored using Contract Status Reports, are managed effectively across the Group.
which form part of the Contract Review Pack.
As with any system of internal control, the These include programme margin metrics, Risk is a regular agenda item at Board policies and processes that are mandated which are reviewed regularly by the Executive meetings and the Board reviews risk as inthe operational Framework are designed Committee and Board see KPI on page 28. partof its annual strategy review process.
tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of Project margin is recognised after making This isaimed at providing the Board with failure to achieve business objectives, and suitable allowances for technical and other anappreciation of the key risks within the can only provide reasonable, and not business and oversight of how they are risks related to performance milestones yet absolute, assurance against material beingmanaged.
The Board delegates certain risk management In addition, every six months, the businesses Financial and non-financial risks activities to the Audit and Corporate complete an operational Assurance Financial risks expose the Group to potential Responsibility committees as follows.
Statement oAS, which is a mandated policy costs which are quantifiable on the basis under the operational Framework.
The oAS is Audit Committee thattheir probability and impact can be in two parts: a self-assessment of compliance The Audit Committee monitors the Groups adequately understood and related to the with the operational Framework: and a report key risks identified by the risk assessment financial statements.
showing the key financial and non-financial processes and reports its findings to the risks for the relevant business.
Together with non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed Board twice a year.
It is also responsible for reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the work of the external auditors, the oAS forms reflected reliably in the financial statements.
Groups system of internal control policies, the Groups process for reviewing the and procedures for the identification, effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Process assessment and reporting of risk.
Businesses Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee The responsibility for risk identification, The key financial and non-financial risks The Corporate Responsibility Committee analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests identified by the businesses from the risk monitors the Groups performance in withthe line management of the businesses.
assessment processes are collated and managing the Groups significant non-financial They are also responsible for reporting and reviewed by the Executive Committee to risks, including those arising in respect of monitoring key risks in accordance with identify those issues where the cumulative business conduct, health and safety, and established processes under the Groups risk, or possible reputational impacts, could theenvironment, and reports its findings to operational Framework.
the Board on a regular basis.
The Groups risk management process Management responsibility for the Approach issetout in the Risk Management Policy, management of the Groups most significant amandated policy under the operational non-financial risks is determined by the The Groups approach to risk management is Framework, and, in respect of projects, in Executive Committee.
The oAS and aimed at the early identification of key risks, theLifecycle Management Framework, a non-financial Risk registers are reviewed to remove or reduce the likelihood and effect corebusiness process under the operational regularly by the Executive Committee to of those risks before they occur, and deal Framework.
Further guidance is provided monitor the status and progression of effectively with them if they crystallise.
byaRisk Management Maturity mitigation plans, and these key risks are The Group is committed to the protection of self-assessment tool.
reported tothe Board on a regular basis.
its assets, which include human, intellectual Identified risks are documented in controlled and physical property, and financial resources, Principal risks risk registers showing: the risks that have through an effective risk management process, Risks are identified as principal based on the been identified: characteristics of the risk: underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
likelihood of occurrence and potential impact thebasis for determining mitigation strategy: on the Group.
The principal risks identified by Reporting within the Group is structured so and what reviews and monitoring are the Group using the policies and processes that key issues are escalated through the necessary.
Each risk is allocated an owner explained above during the year are management team and ultimately to the Board who has authority and responsibility for summarised on page 31. where appropriate.
The underlying principles assessing and managing it.
For more information on the activities of the Board and its committees see pages 69 to 81 For more information on the Groups business processes and mandated policies see page 69 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 29 M S I I T S I Y G L A A T N I O A N StRAtEGIC REPORt RISK mANAGEmENt How BAE Systems manages risk: BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting BUSINESSES Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and nonfinancial performance issues within the business, and signi cant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting BUSINESS RISK Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
ANALYSIS Financial and nonfinancial risks recorded Risks analysed for impact in controlled risk registers and probability to determine gross exposure 4.
EVALUATION Risk owners identi ed and action Risk exposure reviewed and plans implemented risks prioritised Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review As defined in the Groups operational Framework.
For more information on the Groups operational Framework see page 19 30 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 N O E I V T A A L C U I F A I T T I N O E N D I
