20 prINCIpal rISkS Operating in many different business environments and territories inevitably entails risks and uncertainties that are not necessarily within our control.
Although we cannot eliminate such risks and uncertainties completely, we have established risk management and internal control systems and procedures to manage their impact.
The Board believes that our risk management and internal control systems will help us to identify such risks and respond in a timely manner.
The principal risks that could adversely impact our profitability and ability to achieve our strategic objectives are set out below.
heALth AnD sAFety Is PARAMount to eVeRythInG We Do ACRoss ouR BusIness.
heALth AnD sAFety No change to Risk Risk description What impact it might have We work on significant, complex and potentially hazardous Failure to manage these risks could result in harm to, or even projects which require continuous monitoring and deathof, employees, subcontractor staff and members of the management of health and safety risks.
public, as well as potential criminal prosecutions, debarment and reputationaldamage.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Some common themes where health and safety risks have We have detailed health and safety policies and procedures arisen are recognised and communicated, including: tominimise such risks.
These are reviewed and monitored by management and external verification bodies.
Each division has Risk of poor risk identification assessment experienced health and safety professionals who provide advice Risk of not having processes that promote risk elimination andsupport and undertake regular reviews.
or mitigation Failure to deliver management leadership Tone at the Top A Safety Executive committee meets regularly throughout the year Management of subcontractors todevelop a consistent approach to health and safety best practice.
Not briefing people properly before setting them to work In 2013, in response to an unacceptable level of fatalities, serious Failure to follow procedures injuries and near misses, we initiated work on implementing our Debarment for safety failures.
The way we work p38 Key oPeRAtIonAL BusIness RIsKs We FACe As PARt oF ouR PRojeCt LIFeCyCLe.
eConoMIC enVIRonMent Increased Risk Risk description What impact it might have The continued or residual effects of the global economic Any significant changes in the level or timing of client spending downturn, or other national or market trends or new orinvestment plans could adversely impact our future order book.
developments in infrastructure expenditure or procurement, Suchchanges could arise from changes in government policy or may cause our clients to postpone, reduce or change existing clients failure to secure financing for future projects or for future or future projects, which may impact our strategy, business stages of existing projects.
model, revenue or profitability in the short or medium term.
Failure of a client, including any government or public sector body, could result in non collection of amounts owed.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated We may fail to anticipate or assess national or market events The Groups strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable and developments, their potential negative impact, or the infrastructure markets will help mitigate this risk.
The effect of opportunities they present.
Such events or developments, spending changes in any one market is mitigated by our broad whether or not anticipated or correctly assessed, could lead to: exposure to infrastructure markets across the globe and the continued need for infrastructure spending.
We also mitigate the Cash pressures for clients and suppliers effects of suchmarket conditions by continuing to adapt our business Increased competition eg in the UK from other model, overheads and efficiency.
EU countries Supply chain failure risk The financial solvency and strength of counterparties is always Reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
considered before contracts are signed and is a specific focus in the current economic climate.
During the life of a contract such These risks may also be triggered or exacerbated by the need, assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible.
We also actual or perceived, to pursue work in a declining market.
seek to ensure that we are not over reliant on any one counterparty.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 21 BIDDInG Increased Risk Risk description What impact it might have Through our different divisions we seek to win profitable Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs, time to complete, work through a large number of bids.
In some cases we bid impact of inflation and contractual terms and how best to manage in joint venture with carefully selected partners, often to help them could diminish profitability of contracts.
us manage or spread risks, especially where we want to In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery augment our expertise or knowledge of the relevant market.
performance by a joint venture partner, we could face financial We also invest in PPP and infrastructure investments, andreputational risks.
where success depends on a number of assumptions made, If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove at the time of investment, on future revenues and costs.
incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
Our success depends on our ability to identify, price and execute the right volume and quality of bids to maintain a profitable, sustainable order book.
This in turn requires that we have acompetitive business model and overheads.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Unrealistic programme All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes Incorrect pricing within a defined framework.
Overambitious budgets We have defined delegated authority levels for approving all tenders Bidding at too low a margin and infrastructure investments.
All major and significant contracts Poor partner selection above those authority levels are subject to Group review and approval Client credit and late payment risks by the Group Tender and Investment Committee GTIC.
Partner and subcontractor performance and credit risks Inability to make profit from non-PPP investments and Governance p61 other new work types We conduct reviews following successful and unsuccessful tenders Failure to ensure our overhead structure remains competitive.
to ensure we learn from them and apply those lessons to future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement we have procedures for reviewing the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they complement ours.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced professionals.
We analyse the risks associated with revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establish contractual and other riskmitigations.
PRojeCt eXeCutIon No change to Risk Risk description What impact it might have We work on complex design, engineering, construction and Failure to manage or deliver against contracted client requirements asset management projects.
If we fail to deliver them on time, on time and to an appropriate quality could result in issues such to clients requirements, and in accordance with our own cost ascontract disputes, rejected claims, design issues, cost overruns or assumptions and reporting, we face the risk of financial loss, failure to achieve client savings which in turn harm our profitability claims and reputational damage.
Successful delivery of many of these projects depends on the Execution failure on a high profile project could result in significant successful implementation and maintenance of a range of reputational damage and costs.
operational and commercial procedures and controls, backed up by appropriate training, clear accountabilities and oversight, accurate, realistic and timely reporting, and regular audit and review.
It also depends on the combined availability and effective management of sub contractors and other service providers.
Finally, it relies upon many complex, technical and commercial judgements and estimates regarding cost, value, progress and likely or practicable outcomes.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Unrealistic progress assessments Each business area has defined operating procedures to address Overestimating our ability to recover claims within the the risks inherent in project delivery.
In addition, the Group risk timeframe or in the amounts estimated management framework aids identification and quantification Incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale of ofspecific risks on projects and the mitigating actions required.
commercial judgements Projects are subject to management, commercial function and internal Inaccurate, incomplete cost and value data or failure to audit review at all levels to monitor progress and to reviewsteps analyse and report correctly, which could arise due to poor put in place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
training, lackof supervision, lack of accountability or a We also have public indemnity cover to provide further safeguards.
project managers or project team members fear of We monitor the performance of joint ventures, joint venture partners, reporting bad news sub contractors and suppliers throughout the life of a project.
Inadequate experienced, independent challenge from support functions such as commercial, operations, finance etc.
com ar2013 22 PRInCIPAL RIsKs ContInueD suPPLy ChAIn RIsKs Increased Risk Risk description What impact it might have We are heavily reliant on our supply chain partners for Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group having successful operational delivery, which means we are also to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself.
This could result exposed to a variety of risks in the supply chain, including in delays and additional costs.
financial, technical, quality, safety and ethics.
We will be commercially as well as reputationally responsible for performance shortcomings by suppliers and subcontractors, whether in terms of quality, safety, technical or ethical standards.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff by us, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to significant reputational harm for us.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and We aim to develop long term relationships with key subcontractors, when emerging from, tough economic conditions working closely with them to understand their operations.
We develop A subcontractors failure to perform to an appropriate contingency plans to address subcontractor failure, and also obtain standard and quality, which could cause project delays, project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit from subcontractors, reducing our ability to meet contractual commitments where appropriate to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
and harming our reputation We aim to work as much as possible with preferred suppliers and Supply chain operating to lower standards subcontractors who undergo rigorous, risk-based prequalification safety, ethics, quality, timber, child labour, forced labour processes and share our values.
We aim to avoid becoming over Failure to deliver targeted UK procurement savings reliant on any one supplier or subcontractor.
Ethical treatment of the supply chain.
IMPoRtAnt RIsKs We FACe, CoMMon to MAny otheR BusInesses.
Increased Risk PeoPLe Risk description What impact it might have Our inability to recruit and retain the best management Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could harm and employees who have the appropriate competencies our ability to win or perform specific contracts and grow our business.
and also share our values and behaviours may hamper our growth prospects.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Failure to attract and retain skilled staff We measure all potential recruits for key roles in the organisation Distraction and impact on morale of change programmes against a competency and leadership framework.
Divisions undertake Inability to successfully promote the right people through organisation and people reviews to review the roles, competencies, succession planning performance and potential of personnel.
We have a well-developed Commercial and project management quality performance succession planning process to identify and develop high potential New staff unfamiliar with culture and procedures personnel to fill key roles.
These plans are reviewed regularly and Lack of a diverse workforce discussed at all levels within the organisation and by the Board.
Bullying and harassment We have appropriate remuneration and incentive packages to help Loss of former staff with traditional bidding and us attract and retain key employees.
execution skills The way we work p40 Staff dissatisfaction and loss of loyalty engagement caused by termination of defined benefit pension plan.
BusIness ConDuCt CoMPLIAnCe Increased Risk Risk description What impact it might have We operate in various markets that may present business Failure by the Group, our employees and third parties acting on our conduct-related risks involving, for example, fraud, bribery or behalf or in partnership with us to observe the highest standards of corruption, whether by our own staff or via third parties such integrity and conduct could result in civil and or criminal penalties, as partners or subcontractors.
Those risks are higher in some debarment and reputational damage.
countries and markets than others but cannot be ignored The way we work p39 or underestimated even in low risk countries.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Corruption Throughout the Group we take a rigorous approach to assessing Bribery and addressing corruption risks.
We have a variety of programmes Fraud false claims to promote compliance with our Code of Conduct published online Fair competition and in areas such as competition and false claims fraud.
Each Human rights abuses, such as child and other labour business area has a compliance officer responsible for the application standards generally, illegal workers and human trafficking and monitoring of these programmes.
Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain The risk of business conduct compliance breaches by third parties Other emerging ethical risks with whom we work is harder to control, but we have a range of risk Risk of ethics and values being compromised when assessment, due diligence and procurement controls that are designed times are tough, not just in high risk markets.
to identify and minimise such risks.
We work with very few agents, all of whom undergo a rigorous due diligence and approval process.
com ar2013 23 LeGAL AnD ReGuLAtoRy No change to Risk Risk description What impact it might have We operate in diverse territories and our businesses are A breach of local laws and regulations could lead to legal proceedings, subject to a variety of complex, demanding and evolving investigations or disputes resulting in business disruption ranging from legal, tax and regulatory requirements.
additional project costs to potential debarment and reputational damage.
Increasingly, businesses are the target of cyber crime, which can result in loss of confidential, personal or commercial data, disruption to operations and associated costs.
Sometimes we may be the target of state-sponsored cyber activities because of who our clients are, rather than because our business is a particular target.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Data protection and privacy We monitor and respond to legal and regulatory developments in Information security lapse the territories where we operate.
We consider the local legal and Cyber crime regulatory framework as part of any Group decision to conduct Government regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions business in a new country.
Local procurement laws We have data protection and information security programmes across Debarment or blacklisting.
the Group, and cyber crime and other information security risks are assessed on a continual basis.
eXPAnsIon Into neW teRRItoRIes AnD MARKets AnD By ACQuIsItIon Reduced in Risk Risk description What impact it might have In pursuit of our strategic objectives, we may seek to enter Failure to identify, understand and evaluate the risks of conducting new territories, markets or sectors and continue to make business in a new territory, market or sector could lead to significant acquisitions.
Although this results from a careful and financial loss and reputational damage.
deliberate balancing of opportunity and risk, it has the Failure to recognise the expected benefits from acquisitions and to potential to expose the Group to risks that it may not have integrate acquired businesses successfully into the Groups processes encountered before or does not fully understand.
could result in an adverse impact on our strategic objectives, future prospects, financial condition and profitability.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated New geographies New geographies Political, security, safety and ethical risks, as well as the As part of the decision making process before entering a new territory, risk that economic, market and other risks mentioned we undertake a detailed country and sector risk assessment.
This elsewhere and the means of mitigating them are less will consider and assess the prevailing economic, political, regulatory, well understood ethical, health, safety and sustainability conditions to ensure that we canoperate there in line with our own values and standards.
New sectors and work-types Higher risk higher return design build projects Acquisitions and partnerships We undertake detailed due diligence on all potential acquisitions and Acquisitions and partnerships partnerships such as joint ventures and consortia to ensure that all Integration of acquisitions and performance to business plan aspects of their business align with ours.
In many cases, we have Partner performance, creditworthiness and ethics worked with these businesses before.
In addition, we prepare Inherited liabilities valuation models onall potential acquisitions, drawing on both internal Problem liabilities and external resources.
Due diligence includes an assessment of Unethical past practice our ability to integratethe acquired businesses successfully into Unaccounted for liabilities eg tax.
When a business is acquired, we actively work with it to ensure the business is successfully assimilated into the Group and its internal control framework.
Increased Risk sustAInABILIty Risk description What impact it might have Through our activities we can impact either positively Failure to address these risks and to execute projects sustainably or adversely the world in which we operate and the could result in significant potential liabilities, reputational damage communities with which we come into contact.
and inability to win future work.
how the risk may manifest itself how it is mitigated Environmental incident Our sustainability strategy covers our operations until 2020 in terms Inaccurate greenhouse gas data may mean we are of profitable markets, healthy communities and environmental unaware of our actual impact limits.
Sustainability issues such as climate change adaptation are Inaccurate carbon reduction commitment data and other considered in risk management activities at divisional as well as data in sustainability reporting may leave us exposed to project level.
unacceptable damage, fines etc The way we work p41 to p42 Unethical unsustainable sourcing eg timber, forced labour, child labour Insufficient management support and monitoring to achieve our agreed KPIs in this area.
We also face significant risks and uncertainties that are common to many companies including financial and treasury risks, the management of pension liabilities, information security risks, business continuity and crisis management and hazard risks.
