Principal risks and uncertainties Through risk management and internal control systems the Group is able to identify, assess EFFECTIVE RISK and prioritise risk within the business and seeks to minimise, control and monitor their MANAGEMENT impact on pro tability whilst maximising the opportunities they present The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk management.
It reviews RISK ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE principal risks and uncertainties regularly, together with the actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has delegated BOARD responsibility for the assurance for the risk management process and the Overall responsibility for risk framework review of mitigating controls to the and internal control Audit Committee.
Ongoing review of their eff ectiveness Reports to Board Executive Directors together with Senior on its work Management from every division and and conclusions corporate function of the business complete AUDIT COMMITTEE a Group risk register.
Risks are considered in terms of their impact and likelihood Monitors and reviews risk and internal from both a financial and reputational control framework perspective.
Risks are assessed both gross Reports to Audit and net of mitigating controls.
Review Committee on its meetings are held to ensure consistency SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM findings and of response and adequacy of grading.
recommendations Detailed risk registers are reviewed twice Compiles Group risk register yearly and upon any material change in the Considers and challenges mitigating controls business with a full risk review undertaken annually, at which point it is also reviewed Calibrates and scores responses in detail by the Audit Committee with new or emerging risks considered by the Committee as appropriate.
This allows the Audit Committee to monitor the most important controls and prioritise risk management and internal audit activities accordingly.
RISK HEAT MAP Likelihood Low High 2013 1 Corporate risks 2012 2 Economic risks 2013 2012 3 Financing risks 2012 2013 4 Development risks 2012 2013 5 2013 Concentration of investments 2012 12 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As set out below and on the following pages are the principal risks and uncertainties from across the business and these are re ective of where the Board has invested time during the year.
The Group monitors a number of additional risks and adjusts those considered principal as the risk pro le of the business changes.
See also the risks inherent in the compilation of financial information, as disclosed within note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Estimation and uncertainty.
1 CORPORATE RISKS Impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by corporate risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Responding to regulatory and Reduced exibility and increased Sound governance and internal policies with legislative challenges.
appropriately skilled resource and support from external advisers as appropriate.
Responding to reputational, Reputational damage and Appointment of experienced individuals with clear communication and increased costs.
Clear statements of governance challenges.
corporate and social responsibility, skilled Executive and Non-executive Directors, with support from external advisers as appropriate.
Continuous stakeholder communication and consultation.
Inability to implement strategy or Constraints on growth and Regular strategic reviews and monitoring of correctly allocate capital.
Corporate level oversight of capital allocation.
Detailed capital planning and financial modelling.
Maintain adequate cash and available facilities together with conservative leverage.
Adequacy of partner evaluation and Reduced pro tability, delay or Appropriate due diligence, procurement management of agents.
Ineff ective operation of joint ventures.
Inability to execute business plan.
Appropriate governance structure and documentation.
Risk associated with attracting and Inability to execute business plan.
Succession planning, performance evaluations, retaining staff.
training and development, long-term incentive rewards.
Sound systems and processes to eff ectively capture and manage employee information.
Failure to comply with health and safety Loss or injury to employees, Comprehensive health and safety procedures in or other statutory regulations or notices.
tenants or contractors and place across the Group and monitored regularly.
External consultants undertake annual audits in all locations.
Safe working practices well established, including staff communication and training.
Group structure brings heightened Competitive disadvantage.
Non-REIT status has a Lower returns.
Open and transparent engagement with HM potential competitive disadvantage Revenue & Customs.
when bidding for new assets.
Failure of IT systems loss of data.
Lack of access to data restricting Disaster recovery plan in place including frequent ability to operate eff ectively.
Cyber crime compromises data security, websites and applications.
Loss of data and accessing of Extensive testing of security.
commercially sensitive data by Staff security training.
Further information on Corporate risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41 and the Corporate Governance report on pages 52 to 56. www.
com 13 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 2 ECONOMIC RISKS Impact: Economic factors may threaten the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives or return targets Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Increased competition, changes in Declining pro tability.
Focus on prime assets and quality tenants with social behaviour or deteriorating initial assessment of credit risk and active ERV targets not achieved.
pro tability and con dence during credit control.
Reduced rental income and or Diversity of tenant mix with limited exposure to any capital values.
Strategic focus on creating retail destinations and residential districts with unique attributes.
Decline in UK commercial or residential Declining valuations.
real estate market heightened by Regular assessment of investment market conditions continued global macro-economic including bi-annual external valuations.
conditions, currency uctuations or the political landscape.
Restricted availability of credit and Decline in demand for the Groups Regular monitoring of covenants with headroom higher tax rates and macroeconomic properties, declining valuations, maintained.
factors may lead to reduced consumer and reduced pro tability.
Ability to monitor tenants on turnover leases.
spending and higher levels of business failure.
Further information on Economic risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41.
3 FINANCING RISKS Impact: Reduced or limited availability of debt or equity finance may reduce the Groups pro tability or threaten the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments or objectives and potentially to operate as a going concern Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Decline in market conditions or a general Reduced financial and operational Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover rise in interest rates could impact the exibility and delay to works.
availability and cost of debt nancing.
Target longer and staggered debt maturities to avoid re nancing concentration and consideration of early re nancing.
Derivative contracts to provide interest rate protection.
Development phasing to enable exibility and reduce financial exposure.
Reduced availability of equity capital.
Constrained growth, lost Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover opportunities, higher finance costs.
Target conservative overall leverage levels.
Further information on Financing risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41.
14 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 DEVELOPMENT RISKS Impact: Inability to deliver against development plans, particularly regarding Earls Court Properties Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Unable to secure planning consent due Delayed implementation or reduced Pre-application and continued consultation and to political, legislative or other risks development opportunity with involvement with key stakeholders and landowners.
inherent in the planning environment.
Engagement with relevant authorities at a local and Risk of change or delay due to Mayor of national level to ensure development proposals are London or Secretary of State intervention in accordance with current and emerging policy.
Inability to gain the Project team of internal staff and external support of in uential stakeholders.
consultants with capabilities across all relevant areas.
Failure to demonstrate or implement Technical studies with regular review.
viable development due to legal, contractual, environmental, Responsive consultation with evidence based transportation, aff ordable housing information.
Close monitoring and control over key dates and triggering of obligations.
Complexity of legal agreements relating to planning and land assembly for Earls Court Properties.
Inability to achieve lease extension, Inability to execute business plan.
Informed market valuation and open dialogue with renegotiation of use or vacant possession.
Likely negative impact on valuations Failure to reach agreement on land deals and Groups returns or delay to works.
Earls Court Masterplan designed to allow phased with adjacent landowners on acceptable implementation.
Restricted optionality in delivery of terms including risk of Section 34A of development.
the Housing Act 1985 in relation to land subject to CLSA.
Construction costs increase e. g. due to Reduced pro tability of development.
Extensive consultation, design and technical market pricing, unforeseen site issues work undertaken.
Punitive cost, Properly tendered or negotiated processes to select design or other implications.
Further information on Development risks can be found within the Operating Review on pages 18 to 35.
5 CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS Impact: Heightened exposure to events that threaten or disrupt central London Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Events which damage or diminish Loss or injury, business disruption or Terrorist insurance in place.
Londons status as a global financial, damage to property.
Security and health and safety policies and business and tourist centre could aff ect procedures in offi ces.
Close liaison with police the Groups ability to let vacant space, and National Counter Terrorism Security Offi ce reduce the value of the Groups properties NaCTSO.
and potentially disrupt access or operations at the Groups head offi ce.
Disaster recovery and business continuity planning.
Changes to or failure of infrastructure.
Active involvement in organisations and industry bodies promoting London.
Concentration of higher pro le events in central London.
