30 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Risk and risk management Risk and risk management The Group is exposed to a number The successful management of risk is ofrisksand uncertainties which could essential to enable us to deliver onits haveamaterial impact on its long term strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate development and performance and responsibility for risk management rests management of these risks is an integral with the Board, the foundation of effective part of the management of the Group.
day-to-day management of risk is in the way Thetable below sets out the principal we do business and the culture of our team.
risksfaced by the Group and examples of Our flat organisational structure ensures relevant key controls and mitigating factors.
close involvement of senior management The Board considers these to be the most inall significant decisions.
significant risks faced by the Group.
They donot comprise all the risks associated withthe Group and they are not set out inany orderof priority.
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Housing market risk The UK housing market is highly cyclical and historically has We carry out continuous high level reviews of The market continued to been central to the strength of the UK economy.
Changes in the market and diversity of our products and improve in 2013 and our volumes and price are immediately realised in the results of the services as part of our distribution strategy.
programme of strategic business, within both the Estate Agency division and also sales of Forexample, we continue to strengthen the acquisition includes complementary services throughout other areas of the Group.
Lettings division which, by its nature, is furtherresidential lettings morestable and counter-cyclical to the businesses and the Increases in interest rates typically have a negative impact on housingmarket.
acquisition of Lambert the UK residential property market.
Availability of mortgage financing The parts of our business that do not relate to the prestige We review trends in market volumes and Reduction in risk following property market are particularly exposed to the level of determine whether actions such as cost market recovery, assisted mortgage approvals.
The number of mortgage approvals can be basereduction measures are required.
byGovernment measures affected by: macro-economic factors: new regulatory designed to increase requirements: and changes in lenders approval policies.
confidence such as the Help to Buy scheme.
Loss of a major business partner or outsourcing partner There are a number of important commercial relationships We centralised the team responsible for liaising Contracts with a number whichaffect more than one area of the business.
The loss of with key customers and developing new ofmajor clients were keycustomers or contracts, or significant reduction in volumes contracts.
The operating divisions carry out renewed in 2013 and combined with pressure on fees, would have a significant regular reviews with key customers.
We carry weenjoy a maturing impact on our profitability.
The failure of a significant supplier out regular reviews with key suppliers and relationship with our could impair our ability to operate effectively.
operate appropriate contingency measures keysuppliers.
Infrastructure and IT systems Dependence on efficient systems for operational performance There has been significant investment to The transition of our andfinancial information would be impacted by significant support operational expansion and to ITinfrastructure via failures or interruptions to IT services.
Data security is also developand maintain operational systems outsourcing to CGI has essential to the secure processing, storage and transmission andinfrastructure.
continued at pace and in ofroutine personal, confidential and proprietary information.
The Information Security Steering Committee has met regularly in 2013 inorder toco-ordinate Information Security best practice and toensure continuing ISO27001 accreditation within our B2Bbusinesses.
31 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Countrywide plc Board of directors Group Audit & Risk Governance and Performance Board Committee Information Security Group Compliance Group internal Divisional Boards Steering Committee Committee audit manager Compliance Officers & FS Group information Internal Audit Committee security and risk manager Directors and employees Includes Sales, Operations, Finance, Procurement, IT, HR etc.
First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Professional indemnity The previous downturn in the UK housing market and impact Reduction in risk as tail of Monitoring arrangements include operational ofsub-prime lending exposed the Group to a higher level of claims from peak trading controls implemented for review of surveyor professional insurance claims within the Surveying division.
concludes and improved outputs and targeted use of Automated Valuation claims experience in Models in perceived higher risk cases, as well as latterperiods.
maintenance of risk management arrangements.
In respect of legacy issues, we continue to review the judgements and estimates underpinning the existing professional indemnity provision.
Liquidity risk The Group is operationally geared and cash generation Reduced liquidity risk as Cash balances are managed through a central broadlyfollows the profitability of the business.
gearing down following treasury arrangement and cash outflows can be IPO.
Finance restructuring predicted with reasonable accuracy.
Credit risk duringthe year has within the treasury function is also mitigated by reduced debt and provided maintaining a list of accepted deposit increased flexibility in institutions whose credit ratings are kept under funding arrangements.
In addition, our debt profile has been restructured during the year, significantly Credit risk still requires reducing interest payments and reducing risk active management due ofoperational liquidity issues.
toalimited number of counterparties for corporate and client funds Regulatory compliance Failure to comply with legislation and regulatory requirements Expertise within the operational divisions is also The final impact of the new couldresult in reputational and financial damage, including supported by centralised legal and compliance FCA regime and Mortgage withdrawal of authorisation or licences for the conduct of teams who closely monitor existing business Market Review is being business streams.
Changes to financial services regulations practices and any reform proposals.
Employees assimilated within the arealso ongoingin response to the recent financial crisis.
Managers attend business in accordance industry forums and Government consultations.
Robust complaints management systems are in place across all operating divisions.
Recruitment and retention Part of our success depends on the services provided Remuneration policies are regularly reviewed to Reduced risk as greater by, andexperience of, management, executive officers and ensure employees are appropriately incentivised.
There is also substantial competition for Succession planning and development of key remuneration flexibility qualified employees in an industry characterised by high employees are also considered by the Board.
Management will review trends, including the theplcenvironment are views of leavers in exit interviews, and the views offset inpart by increased ofemployees are expressed in our first employee opportunities elsewhere.
The My Countrywide survey was communicated in 2013 with a 70% response rate.
