161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:22 Page 9 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Ensuring that all members of staff from caretakers to surveyors receive continuing training in the identification and management of health and safety risks.
Every member of staff is required to be familiar with health and safety policies and has responsibility for ensuring that they are implemented in their area of work.
Specialist consultants are retained to undertake regular cyclical risk assessments of all properties for which we have responsibility.
Issues raised by this process are allocated to a dedicated team to ensure they are resolved on a timely basis.
This team also monitors performance and compliance.
A report is prepared and presented annually at Board and senior management level to ensure that there is an awareness of health and safety issues at the highest level within the Group.
Community We have long recognised the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate.
This takes two principal forms: Donations, largely to educational charities: this year the donations amounted to 150,000 2012 150,000.
Following the donation some years ago to charities of shares representing 6.3% of the capital of the Company, dividend payments in the year of 785,000 2012 775,000 have passed to charitable companies.
Risks The risks which we face fall into two categories: Above & below left: Sectoral risks Witley Court, These are risks common to all companies operating in the investment property sector.
London WC1 Below: The slow return to economic growth in the UK means that there is a continued risk of failure amongst tenants which could result in increased bad debts, a loss of rental income and increased Vincent Court, vacancies.
In the USA a return to modest economic growth means that this is less of an issue.
London NW4 Page 9 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt1.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:22 Page 10 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chairmans Statement continued Banking institutions are under pressure from Government to make funds available to business.
At the same time those institutions are under pressure from regulatory authorities to strengthen their capital ratios and in this regard the weightings attached to long term lending are the most stringent.
The risk of these contradictory pressures is that the availability of long term finance essential to fund acquisitions, developments and major schemes of refurbishment may be curtailed.
Company risks These are the risks specific to the Company which arise from the way we undertake our business.
In the last two years the growth in value of our UK portfolio has almost entirely been derived from properties in the London area.
Until growth returns to the country as a whole, any slowdown in the rate of growth in the Central London market could significantly reduce the net annual revaluation uplifts on the UK portfolio.
Changes in aggregate property values have a direct impact on the net worth of the Company.
With over 20% by value of the Groups property portfolio located in the USA, movements in the sterling dollar exchange rate will produce accounting adjustments in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The overall impact in the current year is not significant but this may not This page: always be the case.
Glenloch Court, West Hampstead, Changes in market interest rates may result in fair value adjustments to the financial instruments London, NW3 which we hold which in turn may impact on the reported profit.
