REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW MANAGING RISK Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups fi financial and operational performance and reputation is subject to a number of risks.
The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place to manage, monitor and mitigate these risks of which the principal risks are identifi ed in the table below.
The Group recognises that the management of risk is fundamental to the achievement of Group targets.
As such, management throughout the Group are involved in this process.
RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY MITIGATION CHANGE IN 2013 The majority of homes built by the Led by the Group Chief Executive, The UK housing market remained Economic environment, Group are purchased by individuals the Executive Committee undertakes relatively stable during the first including housing demand who rely on the availability of a weekly review of key trading nine months of the Groups financial and mortgage availability mortgages.
The con dence of buyers indicators, including reservations, year and showed material signs of and their ability to obtain mortgages sales rates, equity share sales, improvement during the final quarter.
Changes in the UK and European or other forms of nancing are part-exchange, visitor levels, macroeconomic environments, impacted by the macroeconomic incentives, publicly available The Group has seen an increase in including unemployment, at environment.
Accordingly, customer competitor activity and cash ow the availability of higher loan to value economic growth, buyer con dence, demand is sensitive to changes in projections and, where possible, mortgages and increasingly availability of mortgage finance economic conditions.
appropriate management action competitive mortgage rates largely particularly for higher loan to values is taken.
resulting from the Bank of Englands including Government backed The Groups ability to grow its Funding for Lending Scheme.
schemes, the ability of purchasers business partly depends on securing The Groups internal systems clearly to repay equity share loans, interest land or options over sites and having identify the impact of sales price Government support for the UK rates, competitor pricing, falls in adequate resources to build suf cient changes on the margins achievable housebuilding industry has remained house prices or land values or a homes to meet demand.
The Groups and as a minimum the Group strong with a number of initiatives failure of the housing market to ability to do this can be impacted by performs asset impairment reviews in place designed to support house recover, may lead to a fall in the cash and pro t constraints which, twice a year.
purchases and stimulate economic demand for houses which in turn in turn, would have an adverse effect growth.
Housing formed a prominent could result in impairments of upon net operating assets and net The Group works with key mortgage part of the March 2013 Budget with the Groups inventories, goodwill debt see also the liquidity, land and lenders to ensure that products a range of new measures announced and intangible assets.
are appropriate wherever possible in particular to improve the supply for its customers.
In April 2013 Cost reduction measures may Help to Buy was launched, the adversely affect the Groups business The Group continuously seeks Government only backed equity or its ability to respond to future to enhance the effectiveness and share product available to the new improvements in market conditions.
ef ciency of our sales processes build sector.
Since then the Group and keeps the Groups cost base has seen a signi cant step up in tightly controlled.
Cost reduction levels of consumer interest and a measures are also managed via strengthening of sales rates.
the stewardship of the Executive An improving market: and Operations Committees.
page 6 UK housing market: pages 18 and 19 The Group needs to purchase Under the stewardship of the Group The Group continues to see a good Land purchasing suf cient quantities of good quality, Finance Director, potential land range of opportunities for investment consented land at attractive prices acquisitions are subject to formal in its targeted locations without The ability to secure suf cient in order to be in a position to appraisal, with those approved undue concentration and without consented land at appropriate commence construction and required to achieve an overall Group relaxing its 20% gross margin or 25% cost and quality to provide enhance the Groups ability to fide ned gross margin and ROCE ROCE hurdle rates.
However, there is pro table growth.
hurdle and to meet the Groups a strong demand for conventional strategic criteria for growth.
Each and low complexity sites in London Acquiring poor quality or mispriced division produces a detailed and the south east, with some site land would have an adverse impact site-by-site monthly analysis speci c land price increases in these on pro tability and revenue.
of the amount of land currently owned, areas driven by competition and committed and identi ed.
These are house price in ation.
consolidated for regular review at Building pro tability senior management and Board level.
acquiring land: In addition, each operating division pages 9 and 10 holds regular land meetings.
Targeted land buying: page 11 36 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY MITIGATION CHANGE IN 2013 The Group maintains committed The Group has committed The Group has agreed a Liquidity facilities of different duration that borrowing facilities of around comprehensive re nancing during are designed to ensure that the 850m with maturities ranging the year, which provides committed Unavailability of suf cient borrowing Group has suf cient available funds from 2016 to 2021. borrowing facilities of around 850m facilities to enable the servicing of for operations.
The Groups with maturities ranging from 2016 liabilities including pension funding borrowings are cyclical during the The Group has in place a to 2021. and the inability to re finance facilities financial year and peak around April comprehensive regular forecasting Comprehensive re nancing: as they fall due, obtain surety bonds, May and October November each process encompassing pro tability, pages 30 and 31 or comply with borrowing covenants.
year as, due to seasonal trends in working capital and cash ow that Treasury: page 33 Furthermore, there are risks to income, these are the calendar points is fully embedded in the business.
Going concern: page 91 management of working capital when the Group has the highest The Group Finance Director ensures such as conditional contracts, build working capital requirements.
these forecasts are regularly costs, joint ventures and the cash stress-tested to ensure that adequate ows related to them.
The Group maintains suf cient headroom within facilities and committed debt facility headroom banking covenants is maintained.
and in addition has a number of trade On a normal operating basis, the finance and surety facilities that are Group has a policy of maintaining designed to ensure the Group has facility headroom of up to 150m.
The absence of appropriate headroom would limit The Group has a comprehensive the Groups land buying and regular forecasting process for operational capability, adversely surety bond requirements.
affecting pro tability and the Groups ability to deliver shareholder value.
The Group is in compliance with its borrowing covenants and, at the date of approval of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months from the date of signing of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group aims to attract, retain The Group Human Resources Despite high competition amongst Attracting and retaining and develop a suf ciently skilled Director oversees a comprehensive employers in some regions, employee high calibre employees and experienced workforce in Human Resources programme which turnover has only slightly increased order to maintain high standards includes apprenticeship schemes, to 13% 2012: 12%.
Inability to recruit and or retain of quality and customer service.
a graduate development programme, employees with appropriate succession planning and training The Group is also undertaking a skill sets or suf cient numbers Not having employees with schemes tailored to each discipline.
number of initiatives to help rebuild of such employees.
appropriate skill sets can lead These processes are embedded the skills base of the industry.
to build delays, quality issues, operationally.
The Group continues People: pages 26 to 28 reduced sales, poor customer to target a fully Construction Skills care and reduced pro tability.
Certi cation Scheme carded and quali ed operational workforce.
We monitor employee turnover levels on a monthly basis and conduct exit interviews, as appropriate, to identify any areas for improvement.
We benchmark our remuneration against industry competitors.
The Group relies upon affordable Managed by the Group Procurement During 2013 the Group saw some Availability of raw materials, supplies of building materials from Director, the Group adopts a price increases in bricks, blocks and subcontractors and suppliers multiple sources and subcontractors professional approach to site plastic plumbing.
However, the overall to perform the majority of work management and seeks to partner price increase on centrally procured Shortages or increased costs of on sites.
This retains exibility to with its supply chain.
The Group materials was less than 1%.
For FY14 materials and skilled labour, the failure commence work on new sites and has a policy of having multiple the Group continues to put supplier of a key supplier or the inability to enhances the Groups build cost suppliers for both labour contracts agreements in place to seek to secure supplies upon appropriate ef ciency.
Adverse management of and material supplies as well as ensure continuous availability of credit terms could increase costs these suppliers and or subcontractors contingency plans should any materials and overall it expects low and delay construction.
could lead to build delays, cost key supplier fail.
The Group increases and reduced pro tability.
will continue to work to mitigate the impact of any such increases wherever possible through further build ef ciencies.
Building pro tability improving ef ciency: page 10 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW MANAGING RISK RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY MITIGATION CHANGE IN 2013 The Groups land portfolio consists Led by the Group Chief Executive, The Group continues to see some Government regulation of land for the short and medium and supported by the Director of improvements in this area both as a and planning policy term as well as strategic land.
Corporate Affairs and the Group Head result of changes in Government policy Inability to obtain suitable consents, of Planning, the Group consults with and operational improvements within Inability to adhere to the increasingly or unforeseen delays, could impact the Government both directly and its business.
stringent and complex regulatory on the number or type of homes through industry bodies to highlight environment, including planning that we are able to build.
We could potential issues and has considerable Following the implementation of the and technical requirements affecting also be required to fund higher in-house technical and planning Governments National Planning the housing market and regulatory than anticipated levels of planning expertise devoted to complying Policy Framework, there are stronger requirements more generally.
obligations, or incur additional with regulations and achieving incentives for local authorities to put costs to meet increased regulatory implementable planning consents.
in place five year land supplies.
All of these would in turn is leading to an improved have a detrimental impact on the The Group has appropriate policies dialogue between local authorities contribution per plot.
The Group and technical guidance manuals in and in the Groups divisions.
seeks to meet regulatory and place to assist employees to achieve planning requirements to obtain regulatory compliance and the Nevertheless the planning process the planning permission required standards of business conduct remains a lengthy one and on to develop homes and communities.
average it takes the Group around 70 weeks from agreeing to purchase the land to achieving full or outline planning consent.
The length of the planning process will remain a restriction on the speed at which housing supply can increase.
Planning: pages 11 and 24 The Group builds homes and The Groups Executive Committee In addition to the weekly reviews by Construction and communities in Great Britain ranging oversees weekly reporting which the Group Executive Committee, the new technologies from houses to large-scale atted identi es the number of properties at Group Operations Committee assesses developments.
In the event we did key stages of construction.
Failure to identify and achieve not do so ef ciently, or new construction rates are evaluated as Our performance: key construction milestones, due technologies result in quality issues, part of the monthly forecasting cycle.
pages 19 to 21 to factors including the impact the Groups pro tability and ability Progress with development projects of adverse weather conditions, to grow the business could be including joint ventures and the failure to identify cost overruns impacted negatively.
consortiums, including returns and promptly, design and construction cash ows, is monitored regularly defects, and exposure to by divisional management teams and environmental liabilities which the Group obtains legal and other could delay construction, increase professional advice when required.
costs, reduce selling prices and Any alternative forms of construction result in litigation and uninsured and building technologies and the losses.
There are also risks quality of the materials used by the associated with climate change Group are subject to evaluation and the use of new technology by external and internal technical in the build process e. g. materials experts, including the NHBC, to related to carbon reduction.
ensure compliance with all building and other regulations.
All sites are valued on a quarterly basis and any cost overruns identi ed are reviewed at the monthly divisional board meetings and are subject to challenge by regional and Group management.
The Group regularly monitors a number of environmental impact indicators, the results of which are disclosed in the Groups Sustainability Report.
Appropriate insurance cover is maintained for the Groups main risks.
38 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY MITIGATION CHANGE IN 2013 Due to their scale, some projects Led by the Group Finance Director, During the year, the Group has Joint ventures may require joint venture or potential joint ventures and entered into a number of new and consortiums consortium arrangements.
Failure consortium arrangements are subject joint ventures in London and the of a joint venture or consortium to formal appraisal and appropriate south east.
Large development projects, some partner to perform its financial and or external advice is obtained before Joint ventures: page 21 of which involve joint ventures or operational obligations can place such arrangements are approved.
consortium arrangements and or additional capital or operational Once operational, the performance commercial developments, are burdens upon the Group.
of joint ventures and consortium complex and capital intensive arrangements is subject to regular and changes may negatively operational and financial review.
impact upon cash ows or returns.
Health and safety is a key issue Reporting to the Group General No change.
Health and safety in the housebuilding sector.
Given Counsel, the Group Head of Safety, Health and safety: the inherent risks, it is of paramount Health and Environment manages page 29 Health and safety breaches importance to the Group.
Senior a dedicated health and safety can result in injuries to employees, management and the Board review department, which is independent subcontractors and site visitors, health and safety matters on a regular of the management of the operating delays in construction increased basis and seek to reduce injury divisions.
Health and safety audits costs, reputational damage, criminal incidence rates by implementing are undertaken on a regular basis prosecution and civil litigation.
policies and procedures aimed at and processes are modi ed as required keeping staff and visitors free with a view to seeking continuous from injury.
Performance is reviewed by the Health and Safety Committee, In addition to the possibly tragic which meets quarterly.
Each month, impact of an accident on-site, health and safety reports are cascaded there is potential for legal by each division for review by the proceedings, financial penalties, Executive and Operations Committees reputational damage and delay and Board, which also receives a to the sites progress.
direct report every six months from the Group Head of Safety, Health and Environment.
The ability to optimise prices Led by the Group Information The Group has invested in its site IT and ensure operational ef ciency Technology Director, a dedicated based IT and customer websites.
is essential to the Groups performance.
in-house IT team regularly monitors Failure of the Groups IT systems, The Groups integrated management and maintains Group IT systems The Group continues to invest in particular those relating to systems enable the Group to maintain to ensure continued functionality.
in its business systems and IT surveying and valuation, could tight control, especially with regard to A fully-tested disaster recovery infrastructure.
adversely impact the performance surveying and valuation.
Digital on the move: of the Group.
page 27 Adverse IT performance could cause delays in build and have an adverse impact on operational ef ciency and pro t. Sustainability risks are explored in more detail in our 2013 Sustainability Report, available at www.
co. uk Details of the Groups management of liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in relation to financial instruments are provided in note 26.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are provided in note 34.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
