PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk management The Company takes a proactive approach to recognising and mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its Shareholders in the constantly changing environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 to 47, the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the business.
The identification of risks, the development of action plans to manage the risks, and the monitoring of progress against agreed KPIs are integral parts of the business process.
Our process for identifying and managing risks is set out in detail on page 27 within the Corporate Governance section.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
These do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and are not listed in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or deemed to be less material at the date of this Report may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
External factors Assessment of change in risk Risk Impact on Company year-on-year Mitigation of risk Foxtons business is The Board regularly reviews market conditions and forward Macroeconomic dependent on UK indicators to assess whether any action is required to reduce costs conditions macroeconomic or vary the pace of office openings.
conditions, including the Property sales prices and rents are relatively high in London and availability of mortgage are typically considered to be more resilient than elsewhere in the finance and the UK, making the value of the London market less volatile overall.
residential property market in London and the The Board endeavours to maintain a generally even balance south-east specifically.
between its sales and lettings revenues and profits in order to provide protection against volatility within property sales markets.
The risk of adverse The Group is supported by Compliance and Legal teams who Government changes in policy, law or monitor regulatory reform proposals and participate in policy regulations may decrease industry forums.
the number of residential Foxtons centralised service structure provides it with a flexible property sales and or platform from which to respond to regulatory change.
lettings transactions and may increase the cost of Foxtons services.
Foxtons operates in a Foxtons continually collects information on competitor Competitor highly competitive activity through its branch network and centralised Business challenge marketplace.
existing competitors Foxtons flat management structure allows this competitor could develop new intelligence to be fed back to management accurately and quickly services or methods of so that the Company can rapidly consider appropriate responses.
working which could give them competitive The Board believes that the emotional and complex nature of advantage over Foxtons, estate agency transactions means that it is unlikely that the including internet portals.
internet will play a major role in the exchange or completion of sales or lettings transactions without the involvement of an estate agent.
However, the challenge of the internet will be kept under review.
16 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Key Risk increasing No change Risk reducing Internal factors Assessment of change in risk Risk Impact on Company year-on-year Mitigation of risk Foxtons holds large The Group holds all client monies in correctly designated client Client monies amounts of client accounts within FCA-approved UK banks at least A rated.
monies, which may be at risk in the event of a banking failure.
Foxtons operations are Foxtons has implemented an anti-bribery policy and provides Potential for susceptible to fraud and appropriate training to all employees.
The policy is reviewed on fraud bribery, which could lead a regular basis and risk assessments are carried out periodically.
to financial loss and We currently have procedures in place for whistle blowing.
However, a more formal system is to be implemented in 2014.
Foxtons business All key IT systems are closely monitored by internal and external IT systems operations are dependent specialist teams.
Dedicated in-house IT development and on sophisticated IT maintenance teams exist to provide rapid response to IT systems which could fail, service issues.
leading to interruption Business continuity and contingency plans are in place and key of service or corruption systems have resilience built in.
Group disaster recovery and business continuity procedures are implemented, regularly tested and reviewed.
Upgrade plans on a physically separate location for critical systems are to be implemented.
In order to satisfy its Foxtons structured approach to recruitment using internal People expansion plans, Foxtons specialist teams enables it to increase the recruitment of highwill need to ensure that quality people quickly, should it become necessary to do so.
sufficient high-quality Foxtons continues to invest in training, development and people are recruited, succession planning so that future leaders can be identified trained and retained.
Our culture of only promoting from within generates significant staff loyalty within senior and mid-management.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
