30 Grainger plc Strategic report Appropriate risk management aids effective These risk scores are documented in decision making and helps to ensure that risk registers.
These are maintained at a Risk the risks the business takes are adequately project, business unit, divisional and group assessed and challenged.
They change as new risks emerge and management that the appropriate rewards are achieved existing risks diminish, so that the registers whilst retaining our overall resilience reflect the current threats to the relevant approach to risks.
We review the group Our overall risk management ambition and divisional risk registers at least quarterly is to foster and embed a culture of risk and more frequently, as required.
management that is responsive, forward Graingers risk and compliance function Risk management looking, consistent and accountable.
leads and supports the risk management Our capability continues to develop process and also challenges the risk findings isaninherent part of through on-going risk assessments across and reported controls.
Executive directors, the group and post project reviews.
Onrisk and compliance and other senior thegroups activities going improvements to risk management management form the executive risk toprovide assurance performance can further aid the delivery of committee ERC and are closely involved projects and increase the effectiveness of at critical stages in the process to review, toourstakeholders.
challenge and debate the risks identified Figure 2.
The resultant output, which takes Risk assessment into account the reputational impact of any Figure 1: Our risk management approach looks of the risks arising, is a list of top risks faced Grainger risk management framework at risks arising in all parts of the group by the group.
using both a bottom-up and a top-down In the forthcoming year we plan to Grainger risk management policy approach.
A systematic risk management adopt amore integrated approach to framework and process Figure 1 is used to assessing and reporting our corporate consider both external factors arising from social responsibility risks.
We will bring Market and strategic risk the environment within which we operate, sustainability risk within the groups risk Project assurance risk and internal risks arising from the nature management framework and aim to Operational risk Financial funding risk of our business, its controls and processes, further integrate our reporting of these IT risk and our management decisions.
We will also work Legal and regulatory risk Once identified, the impact and inconjunction with the audit committee People risks probability of risks are determined and tocreate a group assurance framework.
scored at both a gross before mitigation The Grainger plc board risk and Independent monitoring and net after mitigation basis.
A  BRCC has the Risk-based monitoring plan scoring matrix is used to ensure that boards delegated responsibility for the External verification a consistent approach is taken when groups risk management framework.
Key control checks assessing the overall impact.
It regularly reviews the groups top risks and ratifies the risk appetite and tolerances on the key risk areas of the risk framework set by the executive.
Figure 2: Grainger risk reporting framework In addition to the risk assessment process above, the BRCC also spent time this year Grainger plc board considering the emerging enterprise risks and opportunities that the group may face.
Board risk and compliance The BRCC is supported in the discharge of Group audit committee committee this responsibility by various committees, Grainger executive specifically the audit committee and Grainger internal audit Executive risk committee the executive risk committee, and by the risk and compliance and internal Business unit boards and operations team audit functions.
Business unit shared service management teams
