| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Risks and uncertainties facing the business Roles and responsibilities Identifying and managing our risks The Board regularly reviews the Groups key risks and is supported in the discharge of this responsibility by various committees, specifically The Board is responsible for our system of risk management the plc Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
Risk is a recognised part of the Groups every day activities.
Risk management is viewed as the The risk management roles and responsibilities of the Board, systematic identification and treatment of those risks that its Committees, and business management are set out below.
pose a threat to our business strategy and objectives.
1. plc Board The Board sets the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by the Group Responsibilities and its operating companies without specific Board approval.
Responsible for the Groups systems of risk management Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board and internal control provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving its the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the strategic objectives Board, for review and confirmation.
plc Audit Committee Review the effectiveness of Group internal controls, including We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, systems to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive Actions to the ever changing environments in which we operate.
Issue and review Group risk management policy Annually review effectiveness of Group risk management The following chart summarises our business risk and internal control systems management structure.
Receive regular reports on internal and external audit and other assurance activities plc Board Review and confirmation Receive regular risk updates from subsidiaries and functions Review and confirmation Evaluate and assess Group-wide risks and the effectiveness by the Board of mitigating actions Review and approve Group Policies 2.
Group Executive Board Process plc Audit Committee Risks and mitigation reviewed by Responsibilities Audit Committee after validation Strategic leadership of the Group by the Group Risk Committee and Responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk management Executive Boards and other policies are implemented and embedded Ensure appropriate actions are taken to manage strategic risks and key risks arising Group Executive Board Group Risk Committee Review by Group management of Group and subsidiary risks and effectiveness of risk management processes Ongoing review and control Actions Group Risk Committee There is ongoing review of the Review of risk management and assurance activities risks and the controls in place and processes to mitigate these risks Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews 3.
Executive Boards Executive Boards Responsibilities Responsible for risk management and internal control systems within their regions Ensure that operating companies responsibilities are discharged Actions Review and assessment Group Risk Group Director of Risk and Internal Review key risks and mitigation plans Audit consolidates the operating Review results of assurance activities companies functional and Escalate key risks to Group management and Group Group risks to compile the Executive or plc Boards Groups key risks 4.
Heads of the Group functions and operating companies Heads of Group Heads of functions operating Responsibilities companies Maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control within their function operating company Key risks: Key risks: Heads of Group Heads of functions operating Actions identify the key companies Regularly review operational, project, functional and strategic risks risks and create a register develop of their top risks Review mitigation plans mitigating and mitigating Plan, execute and report on assurance activities as actions actions required by region or Group Savills plc 29 Report and Accounts 2013 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Principal risks Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the the Group and its performance.
More detail can be found mitigation in place, is set out below.
It is not possible to mitigate in the Audit Committee Report on pages 47 to 50. fully all of our risks and there may be other risks and uncertainties Key risk: Achieving the right market positioning in response to the needs of our clients Strategic objective: Business diversification Strength in residential and commercial markets Change Geographical diversification Commitment to clients from 2012 Description Mitigation The markets in which we operate remain highly competitive.
To remain competitive in all markets, it is imperative that we Competition could lead to a reduction in market share and a continue to promote and differentiate our strengths while decline in revenue.
Our focus is on both retaining existing clients continuing to provide the quality of client care and service as well as acquiring new ones by ensuring that we continue to that our clients expect from us.
This need drives our strategy reflect the changing needs of those clients.
to continuously grow the capabilities and strengthen the services offered by the Group.
We continue to invest in the development of client relationships globally and associated systems to support our client service offering.
Key risk: Economic country and currency risks Strategic objective: Geographic diversification Financial strength Change from 2012 Description Mitigation Global market conditions remain volatile, with economic Our strategy of diversifying our service offering and geographic uncertainty in certain of our sectors and markets particularly spread mitigates the impact on the business of weak market Hong Kong.
Group earnings and or our financial condition conditions in specific geographies, but these factors cannot could be adversely affected by these macroeconomic entirely mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
Savills operates in a large number of countries potential impact of these risks, we continually focus on our which increases the risk that we will be affected by geopolitical cost base and seek to improve operational efficiencies.
and or economic uncertainties associated with doing business in those jurisdictions.
Our continual monitoring of market conditions and review of market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the quarterly reforecasting and reporting undertaken by all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
Our exposure to countries currently with financial difficulties implementing austerity measures is balanced by our business in other more stable markets.
When considering entry into a new country we undertake due diligence to assess the impact of any political or economic issues in that particular country.
We recognise that there is a currency risk attached to operating in a large number of countries, particularly given the transaction element of our business.
We minimise the risk as far as possible in local operations through natural hedging by ensuring that revenue and costs are managed in the local currency.
30 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Key risk: Changes in the regulatory environment could affect our business Strategic objective: Commitment to clients Change from 2012 Description Mitigation We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory compliance Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out our standards requirements in each of the markets in which we operate.
regarding professional, regulatory, statutory compliance and For example: business conduct, is subject to regular review.
in many jurisdictions eg China we operate under strictly To support this Framework each of our businesses has its own enforced licences, which are subject to periodic review regulatory and statutory compliance resources who monitor in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulates regulatory developments and maintain the internal processes the conduct of Savills Capital Advisors and Cordea Savills and controls required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
Investment Management, and the insurance intermediary services we provide to clients in Savills UK: the UK Office Our compliance environment, at all levels, is subject to regular of Fair Trading regulates our Residential business in the UK review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
and a number of the services we provide through our UK businesses are regulated by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand-reputational damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Recent environmental reporting requirements place additional data gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other FTSE companies.
Key risk: Recruitment and retention of highcalibre staff Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Change from 2012 Description Mitigation We recognise that our ability to deliver our strategy is dependent We continue to invest in the development of our people and on us attracting, developing, motivating and retaining people of extend our training and development programmes across a the highest quality.
This is fundamental to the future success of number of businesses.
Our profit sharing approach to remuneration is combined with selective use of share-based and other longer term incentives to ensure that our people are incentivised to perform over the longer term and to remain with the business.
Team scorecards and individual appraisals ensure that rewards are based on improvements in client service, business development, people management, delivery of personal and financial objectives such as working in co-operation with teams from other parts of the business as well as financial performance.
Savills plc 31 Report and Accounts 2013 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Key risk: Reputational and brand risk Strategic objective: Strength in residential and commercial markets Commitment to clients Change from 2012 Description Mitigation Savills is a brand with an excellent reputation in the markets We recognise that our brand strength is vital to maintaining in which we operate.
We recognise the need to maintain this market share and expanding into new markets.
To this end, reputation by ensuring the quality of the service we provide.
we have a brand management programme in place to ensure the brands positioning and identity is clearly and consistently promoted.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
Key risk: Legal risk Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Change from 2012 Description Mitigation Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual obligations to clients The Group has legal and regulatory compliance policies and could subject the Group to action and or claims from clients.
Best Practice groups which are designed to mitigate against The adverse outcome of such actions claims could negatively the risk of such actions claims being made and where such impact our reputation, financial condition and or the results of claims occur, to limit liability, particularly in relation to our businesses.
For example: consultancy services such as Valuations.
Such policies are regularly reviewed and communicated.
In accepting client engagements, Group companies may be subject to duty of care obligations.
Failure to satisfy The Group maintains appropriate levels of professional these obligations could result in claims being made against indemnity insurance to respond to and mitigate the Groups the relevant operating company.
financial exposure to such claims.
In our Property Management business, we may assume responsibility for appointing and or supervising third party As described opposite, our strong emphasis on appropriate contractors that provide construction and engineering business conduct by all our employees, contractors and services for our managed properties.
Again, failure to associates provides further mitigation to this risk.
discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the operating companies.
In our Valuation Consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of a property.
32 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Key risk: Failure or significant interruption to our IT systems causing disruption to client service Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients New key risk for 2013 Description Mitigation Major failures in our IT systems may result in service Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built into being interrupted or data being lost corrupted causing our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is set up so far as is damage to our reputation and consequential customer reasonably practical to prevent unauthorised access and and revenue loss.
reduce the likelihood and impact of a successful attack.
There is a risk that an attack on our infrastructure by a Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in malicious individual or group could be successful and place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated.
impact the availability of critical systems.
Our data centres are accredited to international information security standards.
Key risk: Business conduct Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Commitment to clients New key risk for 2013 Description Mitigation We operate in various international markets that may present Throughout the Group we rigorously assess and address business conduct related risks involving, for example, fraud, such corruption risks.
We have programmes to promote bribery or corruption.
compliance with our Code of Conduct, particularly in areas of higher risk such as procurement.
Failure by the Group and its employees to observe the highest standards of integrity and conduct in dealing with clients, We adopt a zero tolerance approach to corruption.
suppliers and other stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal penalties, debarring and reputational damage.
Savills plc 33 Report and Accounts 2013
