Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties how we manage our risks Risk and potential impact Mitigation Market economic changes such as higher Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a Economic and interest rates, reduced demand for land sector or location-specific risks.
stable and mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market.
By involvement with all sectors of and new properties e. g. residential, that economy and property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Active portfolio management achieves a better market risk reduced availability of credit and declining Our land bank of over 5,900 acres provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands and thanmarket utilisation of assets.
investment yields restrict business pursue those opportunities that generate the greatest value at any one time.
uncertainty in the economic Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk.
development and cause valuation falls.
and market environment Over the course of the last year, the continuing albeit improving sovereign debt problems within the increases the risk attached Eurozone means that the overall market position continues to represent a high risk.
to property valuation and development returns Failure to identify a pipeline of future Team of professionals with residential experience The planning environment is becoming more difficult with an increased likelihood of delays in the residential sites reduces our supply of andexpertise.
However, our scale and expertise means that we are still being successful in this homes or reduced availability of mortgage area, although individual schemes may suffer delay.
Demand for new homes remains strong and has Extensive land bank with a continuing stream finance adversely impacts demand for been boosted by an increase in the availability of new mortgage finance which is due at least in part ofplanning applications.
to the Governments Help to Buy scheme.
Flexible approach to mortgage financing e. g. sharedequity schemes.
Use of JV partners with residential expertise e. g. Persimmon.
Poor market intelligence i. e. failure to Regional offices in touch with their local market.
The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company has enabled us to continue to win anticipate market changes leads to schemes and grow the land bank to record levels, in an improving but still challenging market and Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams.
selection of inappropriate and, ultimately, economy.
In this environment, with a reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions unprofitable schemes.
continue to source attractive acquisitions.
and schemes in order to adapt to market changes.
Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed andfinancially appraised within clearly defined authority limits.
Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key Monthly review of performance to identify if senior Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI PLC and Salhia Real Estate K. S. C. of Kuwait.
These joint venture partner leads to financial loss.
are financially strong partners with good prospects and strong balance sheets.
Where we have financially weaker partners, we are exiting from these arrangements, meaning that the overall risk has Flexible but legally secure contracts with partners.
Availability of funding reduces, causing Recurring income from rents provides funding for Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative development and asset disposals has Financial risk alack of liquidity that impacts borrowing a large percentage of overhead and interest costs.
enabled us to optimise operational cash flows and offset the impact of fluctuating market conditions.
capacity and reduces the saleability Furthermore, we have once again recorded a trading profit in the year, demonstrating ourability to Strong relationships with key banks.
our geared financial structure ofassets.
The success of our first retail bond October 2012 and an equity Financial headroom maintained to means that there are placing March 2013 has further diversified our debt financing profile by providing access to provideflexibility.
inevitable risks attached to the unsecured funding.
Alternative sources of funding e. g. retail bond in availabilityof funding and the 2012, equity placing in 2013. management of fluctuations Weighted average expiry of facilities is 2.5 years at inour cash flows th 30 November 2013.
Unforeseen significant changes to cash Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting Our cash flow is closely monitored throughout the year and the year end position in line with the flow requirements e. g. operating cost enables monitoring of performance and guidelines that we set at the start of the year.
increases, pension fund shortfall limit the management of future cash flows.
ability of the business to meet its ongoing commitments.
46 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Key: Risk exposure increase Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Change since 2012 Commentary Annual Report Market economic changes such as higher Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a Economic and interest rates, reduced demand for land sector or location-specific risks.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk and potential impact Mitigation Inadequate due diligence on major new Use and close supervision of a preferred Our programme for the year has been delivered successfully and we have conducted robust Construction schemes leads to unforeseen exposures, supplychain of high-quality trusted suppliers processes in selecting contractors for future projects.
costs and liabilities, which prevent effective andprofessionals.
risk delivery and result in financial loss.
Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed and financially appraised in detail, with clearly the management of defined authority limits.
developments is a Contractual liability clearly defined.
complex process Inadequate construction delivery and Strong internal construction management team.
During the year, all our developments have been completed on time and within budget.
procurement leads to quality issues Ourcontractor selection processes are rigorous: whilst the improving UK economy has reduced Clearly defined formal tender process that andcost overruns causing customer therisk overall, we continue to favour financially stable and robust contractors, and we are mindful evaluates qualitative and quantitative factors dissatisfaction and or financial damage.
ofcontractors cash flows becoming stretched in a rising market.
Use and close supervision of a preferred supplychain of high-quality trusted suppliers andprofessionals.
National Planning Policy Framework Use of high-quality professional advisers.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for spreading Regulatory and changes adversely impact on our business bestpractice, ensure we remain abreast of most developments.
Furthermore, we continue our Active involvement in public consultation.
strategy by limiting our ability tosecure efforts to influence public policy debate.
Although the current fluctuations in proposed planning compliance risk Constant monitoring of all aspects of the planning viable permissions and or by removing legislation mean that future rules are uncertain, with an increased proportion of planning applications process by experienced in-house experts.
going toappeal, our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, irrespective of our work is undertaken in a Contacts in place with central and the planning environment.
consequent compliance risks Failure to manage long-term environmental Use of high-quality external advisors.
We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made.
issues relating to brownfield and Theinherent risks are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, although Highly qualified and experienced internal staff.
contaminated sites leads to a major the residual risks have been acceptably low in recent years.
Risk assessments conducted as part of due environmental incident, resulting in financial diligence process.
Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation contractors.
Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
Annual independent audit of environmental risk.
Reputation managed by a core team of skilled PRprofessionals.
Lack of succession planning and or over Succession planning monitored at Board level We continue to offer attractive and competitive remuneration packages as is evidenced by the lack human reliance on key people causes loss andbelow.
We continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the skills that will of failure to attract good people and or support the Companys long-term business objectives.
Targeted recruitment with competitive, resources and significant disruption loss of intellectual performance-driven remuneration packages.
risk HS&E culture leads to a major incident Performance indicators are reviewed at Health and safety continues to be a high priority.
The assessment of environmental costs our activities require e. g. serious injury to, or death of, an Boardlevel.
andthesubsequent optimising of remediation solutions is an integral part of our acquisition and highly-skilled and motivated employee, client, contractor or member post-acquisition process.
We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe Use of high-quality external HS&E advisers.
people in order to deliver ofthe public or non-compliance with that the residual risk remains acceptably low.
In other social and ethical areas, our operations are Defined business processes to proactively consistently and effectively legislation, resulting in financial penalties underpinned by a simple but rigorous set of operating commitments.
Inadequate Business Continuity Planning Documented BCP and crisis management plans While the business does not internally rely on IT as a business process for its success, our reliance covering IT and operations.
BCP for operations and IT, leading to on these areas is increasing.
Consequently, we are increasing our preventative security and the significant business disruption, financial IP robustness of our reactive procedures in order to address this.
Dedicated IT team monitors performance of all loss and or reputational damage in the information systems.
event of an accident, act of terrorism or cyber crime.
48 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Key: Risk exposure increase Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Change since 2012 Commentary Annual Report Inadequate due diligence on major new Use and close supervision of a preferred Our programme for the year has been delivered successfully and we have conducted robust Construction schemes leads to unforeseen exposures, supplychain of high-quality trusted suppliers processes in selecting contractors for future projects.
Inadequate Business Continuity Planning Documented BCP and crisis management plans While the business does not internally rely on IT as a business process for its success, our reliance BCP for operations and IT, leading to covering IT and operations.
on these areas is increasing.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49
