Berendsen plc Report and 36 Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Continuing to maintain robust risk management.
The key actions identified from our strategic review in 2010 continue to drive our approach to risk management.
The involvement of management and employees at all levels is critical to the success of this approach.
The identification of the most The board significant risks that face the group Sets strategic objectives is the responsibility of the board.
Agrees key risk appetite, identifies key risks Each of the groups strategic and ensures they are appropriately managed objectives are considered in the Sets delegation of authority risk identification process.
Approves group policy and procedures The development of mitigation plans and actions to manage these risks is delegated to the executive board and other senior management.
Mitigation plans and actions required are communicated to Executive Risk management Audit business unit management who board assistance committee are responsible for their Monitors performance and Guidance and advice Monitors assurance and risk implementation.
Business unit changes in key risks facing the to business line and business management arrangements management teams are responsible business, and provides regular unit management to help reports to the board them with the following: for the identification, evaluation and management of local risks, Agrees key actions Risk, identification to manage risks procedures, quantification so that, where possible, risks are and mitigation plans reduced to acceptable levels.
Health and Safety Fire management Insurance Business line and Effectiveness business of risk and unitmanagement controlprocesses Management and employees Reviews of the effectiveness are responsible for the of key risk management and identification, assessment, control processes through: management and reporting Internal audit of local risks External audit Maintenance of local risk Group insurer property registers Risk surveys Implementation of key risk mitigationplans Assurance lines of defence 1 2 3 Business line and business Group support Independent assurance unit management David Lawler Company Secretary Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 37 We continue to strive for improved Our focus in 2013 Inherent attributes systems and procedures to share In March 2013 an external independent k The organisation is strongly process best practice around the group.
review of the groups risk management orientated: The Operational Risk Management systems was performed.
Findings from Group meets twice each year to discuss k There is a relatively stable this review were discussed with the emerging risk management issues and management team: board on 25 April 2013 and priorities for to identify opportunities for us to share k The group is made up of a large further work were identified.
This group comprises a focus is on enhancements to the number of plants which lowers the number of senior management from impact to the group should problems completeness of our risk identification across the group.
procedures using an activity-based occur in a specific plant: approach.
Following this review we have k The group operates predominantly Ongoing process for risk assessed the key inherent risk attributes inWestern Europe, with its wellof our business and the associated identification, evaluation developed business culture: and dangers that they might represent andmanagement k We have an open communication ifnotappropriately managed.
The board is responsible for determining culture where it is normal practice In 2013 we reviewed, updated and the nature and extent of significant toescalate issues promptly.
improved key operational group risks it is willing to take in achieving its policies on health and safety strategic objectives.
At the February, We are highly focused on the including fire management, business June and December 2013 board effectiveness of our business continuity continuity planning and building asset meetings the board reviewed the most planning arrangements in order that we management.
In addition in quarter significant risks facing the group.
can provide continuous supply to our four 2013 and quarter one 2014, we customers.
A further desktop scenariohave instigated an independent review Culture based test of our business continuity of our health and safety management planning arrangements was carried The group maintains an open style of systems.
Plants in 6 countries are being out at a key UK location, and our first communication.
This is designed to visited, to identify opportunities for overseas test was completed in Denmark identify any problems and issues early so further improvement.
in January 2014. that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
The characteristics of our group culture are supported by our group intranet, the Berendsen Universe.
Always moving forward This provides an extensive platform for our employees to keep updated with the Understanding risk latest news, the key group policies and independent review procedures and to share best practice with others.
Our vision and values The independent review of risk management that we completed in the first quarter of continue to complement and drive 2013 engaged with people throughout thecharacteristics of our culture.
the organisation, including executive and non-executive directors and senior management.
This concluded that in terms of the effectiveness of our risk management processes we are within the top quartile of organisations with similar risk profiles.
Berendsen plc Report and 38 Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Throughout 2013 and up to the date k Monthly reports to the board from the k Maintenance of a group risk register of the approval of these financial Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial and schedule of key controls which is statements, there has been an ongoing Officer and the Managing Directors of regularly updated and reviewed by process for the identification, evaluation the Workwear, Facility and UK Flat theboard, which sets out the most and management of the most significant Linen business lines: significant risks facing the group, risks faced by the group.
This process theactions being taken in mitigation k Regular business unit management has included the following: including future plans: board meetings, executive board meetings and company board k Maintenance of business unit risk k Appropriate delegation of authorities meetings.
At these meetings existing, registers: and approved by the board that include new and emerging operational, formal authorisation procedures for all k A structured and approved financial and other risks are discussed, investments as well as clear guidelines programme of internal audit visits together with appropriate actions on appraisal techniques : withthe implementation of tomanage these risks being agreed recommendations made being k Clear responsibilities of line and andfollowed up: monitored as part of a continuous financial management for the k Regular performance reviews by the programme of improvement.
maintenance of strong financial Chief Financial Officer and the Group controls and the production and Financial Controller with the Managing review of detailed, accurate and timely Internal control Directors of the Workwear, Facility and financial management information: UK Flat Linen business lines, often The board also has responsibility for k A comprehensive financial review attended by the Chief Executive maintaining sound risk management cycle, which includes a rolling threeOfficer who also has one-to-one and internal control systems, and at least year planning process, an annual meetings with the Managing Directors: annually reviewing the effectiveness of budget approved by the board, review these systems.
These internal control k Discussion of any identified significant of monthly variances against budget systems are designed to manage rather issues or control weaknesses and, and quarterly re-forecasting of annual than eliminate the risk of failing to ifconsidered necessary, their inclusion performance: achieve a business objective.
They can inreports to the executive board and k Provision to management and the therefore only provide reasonable and the board: board of relevant, accurate and not absolute assurance against material timelyinformation, including key misstatement or loss.
performance indicators, based on Read more about the boards annual reliable management information assessment of the effectiveness of systems which are regularly improved internal control systems on page 78. and updated: Always moving forward Managing Business Continuity Planning Risk UK Flat Linen has recently carried out BCP desktop scenario based tests at two plants.
Key lessons learned have been collected and the Operational Risk Management Group will ensure these are shared throughout the group.
Further tests will be completed at a key site in each business line during 2014.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 39 Risks to achieving our strategic objectives Detailed below are the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group for the next 12 months.
The change in the significance of each risk is also shown.
Of the 12 risks below, four are reducing: in particular in relation to the performance of the Decontamination business.
Exchange rate movements provided benefit for us in 2013, but the risk that they might work against us in 2014 is slightly increased based on movements since the year end.
How we see our principal risks As well as narrative description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, we use a risk mapping technique to highlight the potential k impact and likelihood significance l c h of management focus of each risk.
a These are assessed using established f criteria and metrics.
The board focuses their discussions on those risks i g regarded as potentially having the most b d j significance, and also to identify risks where their significance is potentially increasing or decreasing.
e The table below details the risks shown in the risk map opposite.
Each risk is clearly linked to the strategic objective and KPIs which it is likely to affect.
We also highlight our mitigation for each risk and further Low Moderate Major High progress planned for 2014.
Likelihood of risk occurring significance of management focus For a full description of each risk please see the tables below 1 Delivering sustainable organic growth Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change a New sales model fails to deliver the k Business line organisational structure in k Group-wide commission and sales scheme necessary new contract wins place which gives us more focus on growth being implemented: and volume and price levels to drive areas: k Continuation of commercial terms and targeted organic growth Stable k Central sales directors for Workwear, pricing education programme for managers Cleanroom, Mats and Washroom and and frontline personnel across the group, Potential impact UKFlat Linen core growth areas.
k Reduction in future profitability target local business line sales teams and cash flow.
toadd focus and speed of response: k Failure to deliver targeted growth k Commencement of group-wide sales in revenue.
development work and establishment ofsales director group to follow up and KPI likely to be affected improve sales processes: Revenue growth k k Pricing network implemented with pricing managers for each business unit, business detail Read more : line and the group: Page 14 k Commencement of commercial terms and pricing education programme for managers and frontline personnel across the group: k Reporting system provides monthly progress against business line budgets, including key performance indicators: and k Monthly management accounts distributed to the board include key performance indicators on organic revenue growth, contract gains and customer losses.
Impact Low Moderate Major High Berendsen plc Report and 40 Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to achieving our strategic objectives 2 Improving capital efficiency 3 Maintaining a sound financial position Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Further economic uncertainty k Long range plans for business lines to 2016 k Continued monitoring of lead indicators, b prepared: including hotel and Workwear volumes: and Potential impact k Tight and closely monitored controls over k Continued tight and closely monitored k Reduction in future profitability and Reducing capital expenditure and working capital controls over capital expenditure and cash flow: including capital efficiency review: and working capital.
k Adverse pressure on pricing and k Monitoring of various lead indicators against margins: previous experience, including Hotel and Workwear volumes.
k Revenue growth below expectations: and k Limit to ability to complete strategy.
KPIs likely to be affected k Return on invested capital k Free cash flow adjusted profit for the year k Net debt to EBITDA Read more detail: Pages 14-15 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Movements in exchange rates c k Borrowings in currencies to provide hedge k High level of balance sheet hedging will adversely affect the translation of against the cash flows of majority of continue no plans for income statement our group results into UK sterling overseas net assets in euro, DKK and SEK hedging at this stage.
no exposure to investments in Greece, Italy, Slightly Potential impact increased Turkey, Spain or Portugal.
k Unexpected variations in group net earnings.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share Read more detail: Page 15 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Return on Invested Capital ROIC is k ROIC target set at 10% for the medium k Continued focus on generation of d not sufficiently greater than the term.
Reported monthly by business line to free cash flow: and groups cost of capital the board in group management accounts: k Continuation of Capital Efficiency Slightly k Delegations of authority reviewed and Programme.
Potential impact decreased updated in January 2014: k Lack of funds for future investments: k Post-acquisition procedure to monitor and returns on investments made, compared k Reduction in future profitability and tothose targeted: and cash flow.
k Ongoing Capital Efficiency Programme toreduce levels of working capital.
KPI likely to be affected k Return on invested capital Read more detail: Page 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 41 Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency 4 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change e Failure to improve the performance k The board receives regular updates on k Continued focus on the identification and of the Decontamination business progress from UK management.
This implementation of efficiency initiatives during 2014 recognises good levels of customer service, tofurther reduce losses: improved efficiency and interest from Significantly k Working with our customers to achieve Potential impact reduced potential new customers: astreamlining of processes: and k Reduction in future profitability and k Efficiency initiatives put in place reducing k Identification of new volumes using existing cash flow: losses 2013 loss 900k 2012 loss footprint.
2.4million, 2011 4.4 million, 2010 loss k Need for further provisions for losses 5.4million : on contracts: k Ongoing discussions regarding future k Failure to deliver targeted growth options: inrevenue: and k No further significant investments planned: k Potential loss of management and reputation and credibility.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share dividend per share Read more detail: Page 15 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Unforeseen loss of operational k Documented and evaluated business k Further targeted desktop scenario-based f IT capacity continuity plans including identification of testing of business continuity planning alternative production locations updated arrangements: Potential impact Group Business Continuity Planning Policy Stable k Continued monitoring of fire protection approved by the executive board and k Inability to service customer andsecurity systems, including responding distributed to all businesses in April 2013: requirements: and to the results of our regular independent k Fire protection security procedures and survey programme: and k Adverse impact on reputation.
regular audits of compliance: k Maintenance of appropriate Property KPIs likely to be affected k Independent surveys to assess the design Damage and Business Interruption and effectiveness of plant fire protection, insurance cover for our individual k Adjusted earnings per share security and business continuity businesses.
k Revenue growth arrangements, including targeted desktop Read more detail: scenario-based testing: and Pages 14-15 k Comprehensive Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance.
Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change g One of our major textile suppliers is k Regular risk assessment of our major textile k Current approach to the management unexpectedly unable to meet our suppliers considering social, political and ofthis risk will continue.
textile requirements economic factors: Stable k Identification of alternative production Potential impact sources: k Shortage of textiles: and k Purchase of stock up to three months prior k Inability to service new and existing to delivery to reduce risk: and customer requirements.
k Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event of serious interruption to supply.
KPIs likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share k Revenue growth Read more detail: Pages 14-15 Berendsen plc Report and 42 Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to achieving our strategic objectives Maintaining health and safety and other governance matters as a priority 5 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Breach of health and safety k Updated Group Health and Safety Policy k Completion of independent review of health h regulations approved by the executive board and and safety management: distributed to all businesses in April 2013: k Further focus to target a reduction in group Potential impact Stable k Commencement of independent review major injury rate: and k Damage to our reputation: and ofhealth and safety management: k Reporting to the board on major incidents k Loss of licence to operate.
k Local health, safety and fire management and statistics to continue.
systems: KPI likely to be affected k Regularly updated and monitored cleaning k Major injury rate and maintenance programmes: detail Read more : k Prompt incident reporting procedures Page 16 tosenior management with subsequent monitoring: and k Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Non-compliance with laws and k Group Policy and Guidance being k Ongoing training programme for i regulations developed: employees.
k Prompt incident reporting procedures Potential impact New risk tosenior management with subsequent k Damage to our reputation: and monitoring: and k Loss of licence to operate.
k Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
KPIs likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share k Revenue growth Read more detail: Pages 14-15 6 Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Inadequate talent management and j k Succession plans in place with identified k Introduction of LEAD Development Centres inability to recruit and retain succession for the top 50 roles: aimed at building further competency in the sufficiently qualified and leadership framework: and k Wider talent pool below the top 50 identified experienced senior management Further and development planning in place: k 50 managers will participate in LEAD reduced Development Centres in 2014. k Executive board and business line Potential impact succession reviews held twice yearly: k Lack of internal succession to key k LEAD leadership framework introduced management roles within the group in and integrated into performance the event of unexpected departure: management process: k Short medium-term disruption to the k Berendsen Academy as in-house vehicle for business: furthering company knowledge, expertise k Loss of key personnel: and and leadership development: k Shortage of appropriately skilled k Management Trainee scheme expanded management.
by50% for future building of management pipeline: KPI likely to be affected k Group recruitment policy introduced with k Senior management retention rate focus on consistent and raised standards detail Read more : formanagement recruitment: and Page 16 k Short and long-term management incentive plans fully aligned with business line and group targets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 43 7 Reducing our impact on the environment Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Textile suppliers are found not to be k Regular visits to major suppliers by k We have appointed a single assurance k adopting appropriate employment experienced internal personnel and external provider responsible for carrying out and human rights practices parties to assess suppliers compliance with detailed audits of our major suppliers appropriate working practices: and ofdirectly sourced production: Stable Potential impact k Prompt incident reporting procedures k Continued assessment of our other k Loss of licence to operate, loss of tosenior management and subsequent overseas textile suppliers confirmations goodwill and or damage to monitoring.
oftheir adoption of appropriate working reputation: and practices: and k Significant stakeholder concern.
k Continued monitoring of compliance with our anti-bribery and corruption procedures.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share detail Read more : Page 15 Risk Mitigation in 2013 Further progress planned for 2014 Change Discovery of historic environmental l k Established incident reporting procedures k Current approach to the management issues at laundries to senior management with subsequent ofthis risk will continue.
monitoring: Potential impact Stable k Indemnities with previous owners that cover k Emergence of unaccounted for a number of acquired sites: liability: k The extent and coverage of these k Adverse impact on cash flow and indemnities are reviewed with the relevant retained earnings: and third-party as appropriate: and k Damage to our reputation.
k Defence of these indemnities continues tobe vigorously prosecuted.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share detail Read more : Page 15
