50 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk Principal risks and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management, which The Group faces a range of risks and includes the Groups risk governance or oversight structure, uncertainties which could materially affect andformaintaining an appropriate internal control framework.
its financial performance and or the Responsibility for oversight of risk management is delegated to the Group Risk Committee which considers the Boards appetite for risk achievement of its strategic objectives.
and any specific limits set.
The Group Risk Committee maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups principal risks and This section describes our approach associated mitigating actions.
torisk management and the process The Group risk review is a result of thought and input from both management and professionals across the Group, including the andgovernance framework that we have Executive Committee.
The Group risk review is considered and refined inplace to identify, manage and monitor at meetings of the Group Risk Committee and is reviewed by the Audit and Compliance Committee on a quarterly basis.
It is also reviewed risks.
This is followed by a summary bythe Board with a particular focus on the potential impact on the description of the principal risk areas setting and execution of the Groups strategy.
facing the Group and the corresponding The Audit and Compliance Committee is updated at each meeting onthe outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting and has mitigating actions that are in place.
the opportunity to contribute views or raise questions.
The Groups risk management process and governance structure Approach to risk management areoutlined in the diagram shown on page 51.
Members of each oftheCommittees are listed on page 63.
Risk is a part of doing business.
We identify the risks involved and ensure that these are carefully considered and that the level of risk The Groups reporting cycle and the dates of key meetings are taken is appropriate in relation to its potential impact on the Groups co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate risk and strategic reviews are financial performance and the achievement of the Groups strategic performed in alignment with the timetable for meetings of the Board objectives.
Ultimately, we seek to achieve an appropriate balance and of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
between taking risk and generating returns for our shareholders.
Further details on the risk management framework can also be found Our approach to risk management is therefore closely aligned in 3is Pillar 3 disclosures at www.
When considering the Groups strategic direction, the Board reviews the level of risk Changes and improvements tobetaken.
Adherence to this level of risk appetite is monitored bytheGroup Risk Committee.
During the year, the Group has continued to refine and strengthen its risk management framework and process, particularly in light of the On 29 June 2012, following a strategic review of the Group, the future strategic review and the announcement of the Groups new strategy strategy of 3i was announced.
This included the launch of a major and objectives in June last year.
restructuring and cost reduction programme.
Further information onthis can be found in the Strategy and business model section of this For example, a key part of our programme of asset management report.
The risk review framework and governance structure have improvement initiatives has been the strengthening of our investment been modified and refined to reflect the new strategic objectives review process with the introduction of a new single Investment andthe changes to the organisational structure of the Group.
Committee which considers the full spectrum of decisions from Thesechanges are described below.
investment through to divestment of portfolio companies.
The Group has also implemented a new vintage control policy in respect of its own balance sheet investing activity.
This is designed to minimise the Risk management process risk of over-investing at the top of the private equity cycle in the future.
and governance structure In addition, a number of improvements have been made to our reporting and monitoring processes, including the introduction of 3is risk management process and associated governance structure newmonthly portfolio performance dashboards within Private Equity.
are designed to ensure that there is an effective process and a clear TheGroups Investment Committee and Private Equity Partners now organisational structure with well defined responsibilities to identify, meet monthly to review these dashboards and to decide on actions.
As part of the new strategy, the Groups organisational structure has The process of identifying, managing and monitoring risks, and been simplified and processes have been streamlined.
A number assessing their potential impact, occurs at a number of levels ofcommittee structures have been rationalised in order to reduce throughout the Group.
organisational complexity and to enable better and more efficient decision-making.
A new leadership team, the Executive Committee, has been established by the Chief Executive as the principal day-today decision-making body in respect of managing the business.
