52 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and risk management External Review of principal risks The key external risks affecting 3i over the course of the financial yearremain centred on the impact of the continuing challenging The disclosures on the following pages macroeconomic and market conditions, especially in Asia and Europe.
Specific areas of risk considered by the Group Risk Committee include should not be regarded as an exhaustive ongoing Eurozone instability, the impact of government austerity list of risks anduncertainties faced by measures and slowing of growth rates in parts of Asia and Europe.
theGroup, but rather a summary of those These uncertain conditions impact 3is operating environment indifferent ways and to varying degrees, reflecting both 3is principal risks which the Group currently geographical diversity and the different economic drivers of its faces and which the Board believes have threeinvestment platforms: Private Equity, Infrastructure and DebtManagement.
the potential to materially impact the Fundraising conditions are difficult for the Private Equity industry Groups financial performance and or the asawhole, owing to a combination of a funding overhang, which achievement ofits strategic objectives.
continues to underpin high prices for transactions, underperformance of some recent vintages and more selective investors.
General M&A activity remains relatively subdued in Europe, partly reflecting companies preference for high levels of liquidity over investment.
Thisalso has consequences for the level of activity in the debt markets, which currently remains limited in Europe.
The integrity and transparency of financial services firms, as well astheir Responsible Investing principles, are of high importance to investors.
Firms that are able to differentiate themselves positively in these areas are likely to be at an advantage in the future.
In recognition of this, 3i has comprehensive policies and processes.
Further information is set out in the section on Corporate responsibility.
Regulatory developments continue to be monitored closely.
The key development affecting 3i is the European AIFM Directive, which comes into force on 22 July 2013.
This introduces a number of regulatory requirements for applicable firms and will likely require some modifications to 3is related policies and processes.
This is expected toresult in additional costs to the business: however, the effect on 3iisnot expected to be disproportionate in the context of its sector.
Strategic 3i undertook a strategic review following the appointment of Simon Borrows as 3is Chief Executive in May 2012, the results of which were communicated to shareholders in June 2012.
This has involved amajor organisational change and cost reduction programme.
A key focus for the Board and the Group Risk Committee has been the assessment, mitigation and monitoring of the associated risks.
Other key strategic risks are broadly similar to last year.
These include investment performance at this point of the economic cycle and the Groups funding strategy, factoring in the current external fundraising environment, expected investment and realisation levels and balance sheet management.
The growth of the Debt Management business line has also been an area of focus from a risk management perspective, as it has expanded its geographical footprint and assets under management.
Risk 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53 Investment Treasury and funding The Groups key investment risks remain closely linked to the The Group continues to maintain a conservative financial structure, economic and market conditions, described earlier.
supported by balance sheet targets and a strong control framework.
The Private Equity business line is the largest in terms of proprietary The Group continues to target a reduction of the overall gross debt balance sheet investment.
Returns can be cyclical in nature and given level over time.
Funding requirements are evaluated on a rolling the current macroeconomic environment, the ability to deliver target 12-month outlook, in the context of the Groups investment and capital returns can be challenging.
Specific risks include the pricing of new allocation strategies, to ensure the appropriate balance between investment opportunities, potential operational underperformance liquidity benefits against the cost of funding and to monitor the full ofportfolio companies impacting earnings growth and valuations, range of refinancing options in advance of debt maturities.
3is current exposure to movements in quoted multiples used to derive valuations, credit rating is BBB stable Baa2 stable.
and, for more highly leveraged assets, the ability to meet debt Liquidity continues to be monitored on a weekly basis and there is covenant tests.
close review of counterparty exposures.
The majority of funds are A cautious and selective approach has continued to be applied to new placed with AAA liquidity funds and selected banking counterparties.
The overall health and performance of the The AAA liquidity funds are regularly evaluated to understand Private Equity investment portfolio has improved compared to the the nature of the underlying counterparty exposures and previous financial year and has been comparatively stable.
portfolio companies in some geographies, in particular southern The Group has historically used core currency borrowing to act as Europe, where economic recovery remains challenged, and Asia, anatural hedge against foreign exchange exposures in the portfolio, where economies have slowed significantly, have been impacted primarily in euro and US dollars, and supplemented this by the use of bymarket conditions.
Accordingly, some valuation reductions were derivatives.
However, with the reduction in the Groups gross debt and required during the year.
The Groups investment portfolio has also the associated funding costs, this strategy will be less effective in the become relatively more concentrated over time, with increasing future.
The Board has therefore reviewed 3is hedging strategy in the exposure to the performance of a smaller number of investments.
context of the Groups strategic objectives, market conditions and Covenant tests and refinancing requirements across the portfolio funding requirements and has concluded that the level of currency continue to be actively monitored and managed and there has been hedging should be reduced and the derivative programme closed asteady reduction in the portfolio leverage level over the year.
Instead, the Group will look tohedge specific cash TheGroups strategic review included the implementation of six key transactions, such as specific currency investment and divestment asset management improvement initiatives aimed at enhancing the decisions, with specific hedging instruments.
Currency risk will be Private Equity portfolio management processes and capabilities.
assessed at the investment, rather than the Group, level.
The Board Investment returns in the Infrastructure business line are driven will continue to review currency volatility and uncertainty and this byacombination of portfolio income and advisory and management strategy on a periodic basis.
fees, as well as capital returns.
The valuation of the portfolio is influenced by the underlying performance of individual assets, Operational theresulting estimates of future cash flows, discount rates applied, The key operational risks facing the Group during the year relate andthe level ofincome distributed from those assets.
There are mainly to the significant level of organisational change and cost twoquoted assets in the portfolio, which are marked to market and, reduction following the announcement in June 2012 of 3is future therefore subject tofluctuation, and also some exposure to foreign strategy.
This has included significant headcount reductions, the exchange rate movements, notably through the 3i India Infrastructure outsourcing of a number of functions, most notably in the area of Fund.
The portfolio, which covers a range of sectors with different ITservices, aswell as systems changes and upgrades.
Associated economic cycles, has shown steady operational progress in the with this have been a number of process changes and reallocation current macroeconomic environment.
ofresponsibilities, which have required close monitoring to ensure appropriate management of the transition risks and maintenance The main driver of returns for the Debt Management business line ofa robust internal control environment.
isfees earned from managing the underlying Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO and other debt funds.
Ongoing portfolio management is a critical area of focus.
Analysts are organised bysector and the performance of each investment is monitored toensure any issues are identified early.
The various funds are welldiversified by sector.
The establishment of a US platform with FraserSullivan, a US based business, in September 2012, broadens the geographical coverage of the business beyond Europe.
The impact of the economic downturn on debt markets has been particularly pronounced in Europe, where there has been a lack of primary loan issuance.
Consequently, the business has not launched any new CLO funds in Europe in the last financial year, although has increased AUM through the acquisition of existing CLO management contracts from Invesco in August 2012.
By contrast, US market conditions are more favourable and the business launched two CLO funds in the US in November 2012 and February 2013.
