Risk management Risk management is fundamental to our core objective of delivering sustainable and long-term value to our shareholders.
The Board believes that it is of vital importance that there is a Events database Group-wide focus on risk management.
A robust framework We have a system to capture day-to-day operational, legal and ensures that this happens.
regulatory risks for each department.
All 'events', including losses and 'near misses', are recorded.
Risk management framework The Group maintains a comprehensive risk management The current system has been in operation for three years and has framework and has clearly defined procedures for identifying grown into a comprehensive database underpinning the Groups and escalating risk concerns throughout the organisation.
It allows for linkage between processes help us to safeguard client assets, protect the interests risks, controls, events and issues.
This helps gaps or potential of all stakeholders and meet our responsibilities as a UK listed deficiencies to be clearly highlighted.
company and parent of a number of regulated entities.
Lines of defence The risk management framework is an iterative process and The risk framework incorporates three lines of defence: enhancements are continuously made.
1. Business lines are responsible for the identification and mitigation of risks and the implementation of an Role of the Board adequate control environment.
The Board are responsible for setting the Groups tolerance to risk.
They agree the Groups risk appetite this expresses the size and 2.
The control oversight functions compliance, legal, business types of risks that the Group is prepared to accept, in line with risk and market risk teams oversee compliance with its strategy and to deliver its objectives.
This gives a framework regulatory and legal requirements, as well as monitoring for management to set the scope of activities and the extent of operational, investment and counterparty risk.
controls to meet the Boards expectations.
Independent assurance is provided by Internal Audit.
Risk register This model is supplemented by a range of risk related The risk register describes key risks and their owners along with committees at divisional and operational business levels.
causes and effects of each risk.
It documents which boards and The Board, executive committees and senior management committees oversee these risks.
have overarching responsibility to ensure, through corporate governance, the effective and strategic stewardship and risk Aberdeen undertakes a risk and control self-assessment process management of the firm.
through which risk owners across the firm describe the risks that they are responsible for, the impact that these have on ICAAP the business and the likelihood of these risks crystallising.
The ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is a UK regulatory requirement under which we identify and quantify This process is run across the departments throughout the Group.
the Groups risks and the levels of regulatory capital required to In quantifying the impact, the risk owners consider recent loss cover those risks.
The steps above feed in to this assessment.
events for certain types of operational risks including severe, but plausible events.
The risk owners also consider the controls that It is an on-going process which requires formal annual sign off by are in place and other mitigating factors that they plan to use to the Board.
It is also reviewed for major business decisions, such manage the risks along with any remedial action that could be as acquisitions.
The business risk team monitors this process and the Regulatory fine results to ensure consistency and completeness.
The FCA fined Aberdeen 7.2 million in relation to unintended Key risk indicators past breaches of the UKs client money regulations during the The Board regularly reviews a number of key risk indicators which period from 2008 to 2011.
The mistake was identified by Aberdeen are monitored against the risk appetite by the risk committee.
No clients lost any money as a result of the breaches.
Aberdeen took remedial action promptly and controls and procedures in this area have been further enhanced.
The Board were disappointed to discover the error.
They have overseen the improvement of controls and the strengthening of compliance, as well as resolution with the regulator.
42 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report The table below summarises the main risks that the Group faces.
Over the last year, the main changes to the risk profile were: Increased proportion of AuM from equities.
This is principally because of the success of our core equities products, especially GEM, Global and Asian equities.
This increases concentration risk and dependence on key people in those teams.
Continued growth of GEM portfolios.
We have put controls in place to manage capacity in GEM equities.
We believe that this relieves risk on the investment process in the longer term.
Impact of strategy to grow the business beyond these equities products.
This may require distribution teams to sell different capabilities into new markets.
We have strengthened distribution teams through the use of product specialists.
Linked with the above, increased regulatory focus on conduct risk: making sure that the right products are sold to the right clients.
This has already been embedded into our product development process.
Risks Mitigating factors Investment process Movements in AuM due to markets and We make investment decisions based on the long-term, which may occasionally lead investment decisions.
We mitigate this by ensuring clients and investment consultants fully understand our investment philosophy and by openly discussing The majority of the Groups revenue is performance drivers, supported by relevant analysis of the performance components.
earned from management fees which are calculated on the basis of the value We believe that our conservative style has helped to attract assets through a period of of AuM.
The value of AuM will be ongoing economic uncertainty.
affected by general market movements, Our equities business has grown significantly in recent years.
We continue to work on as well as investor appetite and actual moderating inflows to some of these products to avoid any risk of dilution in the quality investment performance achieved by of the portfolios.
There is a market risk team, independent of the fund managers, which monitors the The growth in revenues has been investment profile across all asset classes.
focused on core equities products in We also forecast financial results using different scenarios to stress test the impact of recent years.
Future revenues may be major market falls on our capital base.
sensitive to stock market fluctuations and changes in investor risk appetite to equities.
Investment mandate Risk of breach of an investment We have robust controls throughout the client lifecycle to mitigate breaches and monitor mandate terms leading to action client and fund limits on our systems.
There are also over overarching controls in various committees, as well as an independent This could arise from mis-management review of portfolio data by the market risk team.
com 43 Risk management continued Risks Mitigating factors Loss of key investment personnel Our reputation and client retention We have a team based approach, which seeks to avoid reliance upon any one individual.
could be damaged through significant There is a strong development programme for fund managers and we seek to encourage changes in investment personnel.
performance and loyalty through appropriate remuneration and our extensive benefits package, which includes a significant deferred element.
AuM for GEM, Asia Pacific and Global equities was 107.2 billion at year end, 53% of the Group total.
Recognising the importance of a small number of teams to the Groups future performance, we aim to mitigate this risk both through the team approach, remuneration and development programmes as well as actions to grow the business outside of these core equities products.
Distribution Client relationships are fundamental to We manage the risk of client retention by ensuring that our client relations teams keep our business and retention of AuM.
We in regular contact with clients to ensure that we address their changing needs.
The Board source business through two channels views meeting customers needs and expectations as integral to the corporate culture.
of distribution: directly from institutions, Aberdeen has a global network of offices that allows us to service local clients and the or through investment intermediaries.
leading private banks and wealth managers.
During the year, our distribution teams have This incorporates the risk that we worked closely with our clients to ensure that they understand things like the impact of mislead or misrepresent products to the up-front charge on GEM and the impact of macro concerns on equities valuations and clients this could create regulatory our performance.
censure as well as loss of clients.
We have also brought in product specialists into distribution for key capabilities, such as property, money market and solutions.
The new UK regulator, the FCA, has identified conduct risk as a top priority.
This is about ensuring that the right products are sold to the right clients.
Product Risk of poor product design or that We have a centralised product development team which oversees the assessment and delivery of the final product was not launch of all new products across the Group.
There is a Group-wide approach covering what was intended.
It can arise from all asset classes as well as product and competitor reviews.
creating new products, or risk that existing products no longer meet investor requirements.
Client service and administration Business continuity There is offsite back up for our systems in place to cover each of the Groups principal We have an obligation to ensure that operating sites.
We regularly test our back up plans and the tests also cover potential the business can operate at all times.
External service providers We use a small number of strategic suppliers.
This ensures a degree of competition, whilst The Group relies on a number of third ensuring that we have significant influence and leverage.
However, it also exposes us to party relationships and services to carry concentration risk and dependence on strategic providers.
Our operations team oversees out business functions.
The risk arises these third party administrators.
We have contingency plans reviewed by the Board on from the inability to effectively carry out how we would best manage a withdrawal or failure of a strategic supplier.
robust evaluations of third parties prior We regularly review the business recovery infrastructure and strategy of these suppliers.
to Aberdeen engaging in dealings.
This includes visits by our senior executives to strategic suppliers during the year.
44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Risks Mitigating factors Brand Our reputation could be damaged During the year we performed a review of our brand to ensure that it is aligned to if our brand or marketing activities our culture.
are inconsistent with our culture The compliance team works closely with the business to check that our marketing or operations.
materials are consistent with our products and capabilities.
Legal and regulatory Aberdeen operates in a complex and The Group has a new lead regulator in the UK and there is a clear pattern of increasing dynamic regulatory environment.
value of fines for regulatory breaches in some jurisdictions.
Over the next two years, we Risks arise from legal and regulatory anticipate a peak of new regulation in Europe.
obligations and the failure to correctly The management of legal and regulatory risk is the responsibility of the senior interpret law or changes in the law which management of all functions, supported by the in-house legal and compliance teams.
may materially and adversely impact the Group.
We may also be subject to The legal and compliance teams are responsible for tracking legal and regulatory regulatory sanctions or loss of reputation developments to ensure that the Group is well prepared for changes.
As well as developing from failure to comply with regulations.
policies, delivering training and performing monitoring checks, they also provide advice to other divisions to enable compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
They are located at key locations across all three regions and help to monitor that global and local requirements are followed.
Liquidity risk The Group aims to have sufficient The Groups cash position, available facilities and forecast cash flows are monitored by the liquidity to meet its liabilities when Groups treasury function.
due under both normal and stressed We prepare long-term forecasts and use stress tests to assess the Groups future liquidity, conditions, without incurring as well as capital structure and compliance with regulatory capital.
unacceptable losses or risking The cash and funding position of each subsidiary is monitored and each entity has access damage to the Groups reputation.
Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of We monitor the value of deposits with our counterparties against limits in our treasury counterparty exposure.
We monitor our exposure to banks continuously and, as our cash balances have risks are in respect of deposits placed grown, have increased the number of counterparties where we deposit our cash.
Groups treasury function is supported by the front office credit team, as well as the market risk function who also perform internal credit reviews.
Where appropriate, we extend our assessment of counterparty risk to include major suppliers.
Foreign currency risk The Groups results are reported in The Board reviews the currency profile of the Group, including cash flows and sterling.
Due to the geographically balance sheet.
diverse locations in which Aberdeen Variations in the sterling value of operating costs and interest costs will, to an extent, operates, business is conducted in a offset any similar impact of fluctuating exchange rates on revenues.
These include the The treasury function prepares a sensitivity analysis of the effect of changes in rates.
US dollar, Singapore dollar and Euro.
Further details on sensitivity to changes in currencies are set out in note 30 of the financial statements.
