Business RevieW pRincipAl Risks And unceRtAinties This section highlights the principal risks which are considered to have a material potential impact on the Groups long-term performance and achievement of strategy.
It is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may affect the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Further details of how our risk management framework and policies are embedded can be found on pages 44 to 47.
Key risk Impact Mitigation Online gambling regulation EU non-EU Many jurisdictions are beginning to Any new licensing regime, adverse We work closely with a wide variety of regulate their online gambling market regulatory decisions or tax base that organisations involved in the regulation by introducing a licensing regime.
makes it commercially unviable for of online gambling.
We are fully engaged Betfair to operate its exchange and with the UK Government regarding the While opportunities exist, they are products could restrict our ability ongoing review of how operators licensed not without risks such as commercial to grow the business, gain access elsewhere are regulated in the UK.
viability, delays in licensing of betting to new customers and, ultimately, exchanges compared to other products, External third parties help us to substantiate increase revenues.
how our products are taxed and licensing evidence to support using a gross profits one section of the online market tax model.
such as sports betting but not We have a dedicated internal and another, such as casinos or poker.
external legal, tax, compliance and public affairs resource.
Our products Online gaming is a very competitive Our product offering could Our product delivery activity includes industry.
Our competitors are constantly become less attractive in relation an approval process whereby appropriate looking to gain advantage through to competitors offers.
products are assessed for suitability and aggressive marketing campaigns, pricing priority to bring to market.
Disproportionate growth in risk and promotional behaviour and new products such as multiples and Our experienced Trading Team and new product features which could impact fixed odds could result in a volatile Client Services Division constantly monitor revenue or margins.
client activity and betting patterns relating Product and delivery to market is vital to to risk products.
We monitor competitor We could fail to maximise the revenues gain competitive edge over other operators.
promotional activities, pricing and products earned from products offered.
and continue to invest in exchange Like all betting operators we recognise technology and product development Betfair products could be used by that our platform could be targeted by to make it more difficult for a competitor criminals for money laundering or those who seek to benefit from corrupt to launch comparable products.
This, or activity on a market or to use the site for fraud and corruption in sport more the illegal transfer of funds.
We have a fully staffed and highly skilled generally, could result in negative Integrity Team who investigate any potentially publicity for sports betting and Betfair.
suspicious activity and liaise with sports regulatory bodies.
We carry out routine risk assessments for specific territories in relation to anti-money laundering, fraud, terrorism financing and other crimes.
Customers Our customers are at the heart of the Reduced activity by a significant We closely monitor the behaviour business.
Macroeconomic factors such number of customers could have of customers and have a team focused as licensing, regulatory, tax or other a material adverse effect on our on their management and retention.
developments outside Betfairs control operations, financial performance We aim to ensure we provide a service could deter a significant number of and prospects.
and platform which grow value for both customers from using our products.
Poorly designed promotional activity the customer and Betfair, and significantly As we increase our reliance on third parties, could result in negative financial and reduce the risk of customers leaving.
potential to maliciously access data and reputational impacts.
We review our terms and conditions data compromise could increase.
to ensure they are fit for purpose and have processes in place to assess risk and approve promotions.
28 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Key risk Impact Mitigation People Our success and anticipated future growth Reduced ability to: Succession planning and processes are is in part dependent on the continued in place throughout the business to: retain executives, managers and services and performance of certain key staff: identify key roles in line with business Directors, managers and key staff.
continuity plans: attract, retain and motivate highly Our ability to continue to attract, retain skilled employees: conduct regular succession and and motivate highly skilled employees talent reviews: and engage staff with their jobs and the in an intensely competitive environment Companys objectives recognise competitive package and means that competitive packages and career development opportunities.
development opportunities must could impair our operations, financial be available.
Our employees participate in regular surveys which help us to link improvements to achieving our corporate goals while reducing employee turnover and improving productivity and wellbeing.
Infrastructure and systems We rely on IT infrastructure and systems We rely on our customers being able to We regularly review our business for our core operations and their overall access markets via the internet and any continuity plans and have service level management.
extended loss of connectivity could have agreements in place with third parties.
Potential risks include: Our Group Security Team regularly Any failure of the Companys and or other review and assess our systems in site outages and or loss of customer infrastructure could lead to significant terms of potential threat and connectivity: costs and disruptions that could reduce vulnerability.
We carry out targeted software error: revenue and harm our business reputation.
infrastructure testing and have implemented our own Secure Coding reliance on third parties: and Standard for use within the business.
unauthorised access to customer data We use a variety of systems and by employees, third party providers applications testing tools for critical or cyber attack.
Financial Due to the international nature of the Adverse foreign exchange exposures could We monitor exposure to foreign business, the Company is exposed to the impact on Group revenues.
exchange risk and where appropriate impact of foreign exchange fluctuations use financial instruments to mitigate A break-up of the Eurozone, or defaults on deposits as well as cash flows.
within it, could have a wide range of The future of the Eurozone is currently negative impacts.
Incident management plans are in uncertain and could expose the Company place to address the unpredictable Actual or perceived mismanagement of to a wide range of issues, such as currency nature of events which could lead customer funds could have severe financial payment methods and loss of business in to the potential default or break-up and reputational impacts.
Under the terms of a Trust Deed, Betfair Daily and monthly reconciliations of generally holds all customer moneys in the customer funds balance take place separately managed bank accounts which to ensure timely detection, in the are safeguarded independently of Betfairs event of fraud or error.
