goveRnAnce Risk And Risk MAnAgeMent Internal controls and risk management Risk Management Framework The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control The Risk Management Framework is a well established process and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order adopted to ensure that the Company understands, evaluates and to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the mitigates the potential risks facing the business and is shown below.
procedures necessary to apply the Corporate Governance Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and Betfair Board delegated authority.
These procedures, which are in accordance with revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place since before the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and for the Audit Committee preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect transactions, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with Corporate Risk International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or UK Committee Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and that require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Group Risk Group Internal Business performance is managed closely and the Board and Management Audit the Executive Committee have established processes, as part Department Department of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: strategic plan achievement financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, accounting and reporting framework Risk subBusiness Risk capital investment and asset management performance, with committees: functions: functions: detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews Escalate critical Risks identified by BCM, Fraud, consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats risks requiring business Integrity, AML to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant Risk Committee functions etc.
: escalate key review documented on risks requiring risk management, through an ongoing process, including the risk register Risk Committee reports from the Group Internal Audit & Risk Management review Team, that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Betfair has a comprehensive risk management framework across reports from the Corporate Risk Committee the whole of the Group based on sound principles of good governance, to actively identify risks and mitigate them to the reports from the Groups Internal Audit Team on the work extent considered appropriate, balancing risk and opportunity carried out under the annual internal audit plan to safeguard the business and its reputation.
The framework reports from the external auditors.
provides the Directors and senior management with a consolidated Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has view of the key risks faced by the business which is updated and conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal evaluated regularly.
The Directors believe the Groups approach control during the year ended 30 April 2013.
The system of and capabilities will, over the long term, contribute to the internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, The risk management framework comprises a number of formal it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against committees made up of senior executives and relevant senior material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, managers from across the Betfair Group, which deal with matters in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system of policy and control and exercise oversight of the operational was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of implementation of risk management, together with several any change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
There are also established processes and The Company has a long established process for analysing its key procedures in place between committee meetings to deal risks and adopts a proactive approach in this area, with ultimate with more urgent decisions and actions.
This framework ownership resting with respective Board and Executive Board is overseen by the Corporate Risk Committee, which reports members who manage the specific risks associated with their to the Audit Committee.
areas of responsibility together with a dedicated Group Risk Management Team.
44 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Group Risk Management Team co-ordinates, structures Group Internal Audit Team and embeds risk management practices across the business The Group Internal Audit Team is responsible for giving on an ongoing basis.
It maintains a central risk register which risk-based, independent assurance to the Audit Committee documents the risks across the whole organisation and how and operating management on the effectiveness of the Groups they are being managed.
A description of the Corporate Risk risk management, control and governance processes.
Committee, and some of the key components of Betfairs risk It provides assurance that: management framework is set out below.
risk management practices are sound and operating effectively: Corporate Risk Committee key risks are being managed to an acceptable level: The Corporate Risk Committee comprises the CEO, the CFO and the Group Director of Legal & Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate internal controls are effective and efficient: and Risk Committee is responsible for the review of significant mechanisms are in place to achieve Betfairs business business risk issues for Betfair, including but not limited to money objectives.
laundering, fraud, integrity, operations and legal and regulatory issues.
The Corporate Risk Committee makes recommendations The teams responsibilities include reporting regularly to to the Audit Committee and, as appropriate, to the Board as management on the effectiveness of Betfairs controls.
The team to the Betfair Groups overall appetite for risk and its approach reports to the CFO and the team head has a direct reporting line to managing and mitigating risk.
Importantly, it also reviews to the Chairman of the Audit Committee with direct access to Betfairs risk management and internal control frameworks to the other members of the Audit Committee.
ensure consistent performance and recommend improvements Management actions from internal audits are tracked as necessary.
To ensure that our risk process drives improvement to completion and the status of actions on significant risks across the business, action plans for the principal risks and is reported to the Audit Committee to ensure that the risks uncertainties are reviewed at each Committee meeting together identified are appropriately addressed.
with any recommendations to add emerging risks to remove mitigated risks from these principal risks.
The Committee plans Compliance Group to continue to drive a better understanding of risk appetite, The Compliance Group comprises four teams of specialist and tolerance and management across the business in line with subject matter experts in their individual fields.
The teams report the changes in the business structure to focus on achievement to Betfairs Group Director of Legal & Corporate Affairs.
of the strategic objectives and sustainable long-term growth of the business.
The Corporate Risk Committee meets quarterly Compliance Team and otherwise as required and reports matters of significance The Regulatory Compliance Team provides advice and at the subsequent Audit Committee meeting.
administrative assistance across the Betfair business in the development, licensing and launch of new products, and day Technology Risk Committee to day product and process compliance with existing licences The Technology Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and Betfair regulatory policies.
Together, Betfairs compliance and mitigating key risks to Betfairs technology infrastructure, managers and compliance analysts maintain an ongoing dialogue including risks to the current and future operating requirements with gambling regulators, technical testing bodies and relevant of Betfairs technology.
In particular it is responsible for Betfairs staff within the business to ensure that Betfair operates in disaster recovery planning.
The Technology Risk Committee accordance with the terms of its licences and relevant legislation.
Regulatory Licensing Team Business continuity planning This team is responsible for applying for, and obtaining, relevant Through its comprehensive business continuity strategy, Betfair gambling licences in jurisdictions which the business has identified aims to be able to continue to service its customers irrespective as a suitable market to offer its products.
The team co-ordinates of any incident or failure which may impact on any of Betfairs and organises the collation and submission of the application and key operating and technology locations.
The key components supporting documents and acts as advisor to the product team of this strategy are physical site security, departmental continuity and Regulatory Compliance to ensure products meet the new plans for all functions and a technology disaster recovery plan.
Betfairs state of business continuity readiness is demonstrated by the business continuity plans continued certification under BS25999 Business Continuity Assessment.
The Chief Information Officer and direct staff have primary responsibility for the business continuity plan.
Disaster recovery DR capability is a key part of the wider business continuity plan.
The objective of the DR strategy is to ensure that response and recovery of Betfairs technology infrastructure is in line with prioritised business needs and compliant with regulatory requirements COBIT DS4 IT Continuity.
Betfair has pre-placed equipment in dedicated DR sites in Ireland to which key products, technology operations and back-end functionality can be moved over and remotely operated.
While not in DR use, this equipment is used to performance and capacity test new software code before deployment to Betfairs live environment.
com investor-relations annual-reports 45 goveRnAnce Risk And Risk MAnAgeMent Additional risk management policies and practices relating Integrity Team and Rules and Regulations Committee The Integrity Team is responsible for monitoring betting activity to customers on the Betfairs sports betting products, investigating any Betfair has a number of important policies which are embedded potentially suspicious betting activity, and is the main point in its operations to protect both its customers and Betfair from of liaison for sports regulatory bodies.
Betfair has Memoranda certain risks often associated with remote gambling.
In part, of Understanding MoUs in place with over 55 sports regulators, these policies also help Betfair to meet licensing and regulatory under which, in certain circumstances, Betfair shares relevant requirements and comply with applicable legislation.
They also information about its customers with MoU partners to help in underpin some important capabilities of Betfair, in particular policing the betting integrity related rules which govern their by facilitating the close and consistent co-operation of several participants and or the prevention and detection of crime.
The of the risk management functions described above.
sports governing body may then use the personal information KYC customer due diligence: Betfair operates a sophisticated shared by Betfair to investigate and act on any such breaches in four-level customer due diligence process referred to as Know accordance with its procedures.
Betfair also offers its sporting Your Customer or KYC, which uses both automated and manual MoU partners access to the BetMonitor, a proprietary technology methods to verify a customers age, identity and source of portal which enables regulators to monitor betting activity by funds.
The KYC process also assesses the extent and quality Betfair customers in real time.
of the customers verification information in determining whether The Directors consider Betfairs MoU framework and information to allow the customer to operate a Betfair betting account, sharing policy to be market leading and a key contributor to the either at all, or above certain levels of activity.
Betfairs KYC trust with which Betfair is regarded by customers, sports and processes are integral to the anti-money laundering, fraud gambling regulators and governments.
and integrity policies and practices described below.
Underage betting and gaming: All customers are required Maintaining the integrity of Betfairs betting markets is important to confirm upon registration that they are over the legal age to Betfairs reputation for fairness amongst customers and sports for gambling within each particular jurisdiction.
To this end the MoU framework is complemented by and specific component of the customer due diligence policy a comprehensive and detailed set of betting rules which Betfair referred to above, Betfair also carries out age verification applies in the operation of its betting markets.
Those rules, checks on all customers who use payment mechanisms which together with decisions about the operation and settlement may be available to under 18s, and performs random age of betting markets and practices relating to customers, verification checks on all customers.
Betfair suspends all are overseen by Betfairs Rules and Regulations Committee, UK-based customers who fail to verify their age within which reports as necessary to the Corporate Risk Committee.
Betfair advises and encourages its customers to Sustainable gambling practices prevent minors from accessing betting and gaming websites.
The Sustainable Gambling Team develops and implements Ring-fenced customer funds: Betfair holds all Core Betfair Betfairs policies and practices in relation to problem gambling customer moneys in separately managed bank accounts, and responsible play are implemented throughout the business.
which are safeguarded independently of Betfairs Corporate Customers are educated about playing responsibly and can access funds under the terms of a Trust Deed or where there tools which enable them to apply automated controls on their is a requirement for such funds to be held under the terms betting and gaming activity with Betfair, including full selfof any licence, in a separate non set-off bank account exclusion and applying deposit and loss limits.
Betfair also makes in the name of the licence holder.
donations to various research and treatment organisations, including the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT and Gambling Anti-Money Laundering Team Therapy.
All Betfair staff complete regular training in responsible Betfairs anti-money laundering AML compliance policy gambling and have access to free and confidential support should encompasses a collection of procedures, technologies and they ever feel they need help with their own gambling habits.
techniques to: Betfair continues to be at the forefront of the industry in make a risk-based assessment of all financial transactions developing data analysis tools and behavioural markers to create using Betfair payment, betting and gaming systems a risk profile for problem gambling so that such customers can be referred to Betfairs various tools and support services.
establish and implement relevant record-keeping requirements across the business report on an ongoing basis to the relevant statutory authorities any suspicious circumstances concerning financial transactions ensure regular staff training in Betfairs AML procedures.
A dedicated AML Team is responsible for assessing and implementing Betfairs AML policy in accordance with the Financial Action Task Force FATF recommendations, European Directives and national legislation.
The AML Team is also responsible for managing Betfairs anti-bribery strategy in accordance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
46 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regulatory overview Betfair operates in a heavily regulated sector where changes in regulation can have a significant impact on its operations.
The regulation and legality of online betting and gaming varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction from open licensing regimes to sanctions or prohibitions and in certain jurisdictions there is no directly applicable legislation.
Besides the regulatory changes, online betting and gaming is subject to other uncertainties in many jurisdictions and approaches to enforcement of local laws vary.
Bearing all these factors in mind, Betfairs commercial and marketing strategy is designed to achieve sustainable revenue from regulated jurisdictions.
The primary focus of the Group is on the UK and Ireland, but other countries where the Group holds gambling licences such as the United States, Australia, Italy, Spain or Denmark are also significant.
Betfairs determination, as to whether or not to permit customers in a given jurisdiction to access any one or more of its products and whether to engage with customers, is made on the basis of its measured and prudent approach to legal and regulatory compliance, and is based on a number of factors which include: the terms of Betfairs betting and gaming licences in individual jurisdictions the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction including state, federal or supra-national law including EU law if applicable, and in particular the way in which such laws and regulations apply to the specific betting and gaming products and specific types of related activity, including marketing: and the approach to the application or enforcement of such laws and regulations by regulatory and other authorities in the jurisdiction.
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from an external independent body, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Companys principal risks and uncertainties may be found on pages 28 and 29.
Ian Dyson Chairman of the Audit Committee corporate.
