106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 5 Principal Risks The Directors have established an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
This process was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversified portfolios of small and large companies.
The Company has a diversified portfolio.
In addition, the Company has a simple capital structure, invests only in small UK quoted companies and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established firms.
The principal risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised below: i Investment policy performance the performance of the investment portfolio will typically not match the performance of the benchmark and will be influenced by market related risks including market price, interest rate and liquidity refer to Note 18 for further details.
However, the Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term whilst managing risk by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Board has outsourced portfolio management to experienced managers and receives regular and detailed reports on investment performance.
Peer group performance is also regularly monitored by the Board.
ii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values.
The Board and the Managers monitor the discount on a daily basis.
Furthermore, the Board intends to continue to use the share buy back facility to seek to sustain as low a discount as seems possible.
iii Gearing risk in rising markets, the effect of borrowings would be beneficial but in falling markets the gearing effect would adversely affect returns to Shareholders.
The Board considers the gearing strategy and associated risk on a regular basis.
iv Reputational risk the Board and the Managers monitor external factors affecting the reputation of the Company and take action if appropriate.
v Risk appetite the effect of inappropriate risk appetite or failure to establish an appropriate framework to manage the Company to a desired risk level.
The Managers have a clearly defined investment philosophy and they manage a diversified portfolio.
The Board continually monitors the Companys performance against the benchmark, and regularly receives a detailed portfolio attribution analysis, including risk measures.
vi Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to monitor compliance with rules and regulations, together with information on future developments.
In summary, the Board regularly considers the principal risks associated with the Company, the measures in place to monitor them and the possibility of any other risks that may arise.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 5
