PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below sets out the principal risks which could have a material adverse affect [PULLOUT on Admiral and have been identified through the risk management framework.
The report on Corporate Governance on pages 50 to 51 describes the risk management TO BE SUPPLIED] framework in place throughout the Group.
RISK IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS Reserving Risk in UK and International Car Insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving Adverse run-off leading to higher Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material risk through its underwriting of claims costs in the financial statements.
margin in its financial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined motor insurance policies.
reserves in the financial statements Best estimate reserves are estimated internally and externally by an may prove inadequate to cover the independent actuary.
ultimate cost of open claims which are by nature uncertain.
Many of the potential causes of claims shocks are outside the control ofAdmiral and the focus is, therefore, on how to prepare for and react to the occurrence of such events.
Admiral holds a buffer in booked reserves to cover significant legislative changes impacting existing claims.
Furthermore, Admiral continues to hold anadditional buffer in its reserves in excess of the projected ultimate outcomes to cover other potential claim shocks.
The Group continues to make material investments in staff and systems towork on the identification and prevention of claims fraud.
For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates the loss to the selected deductible amount.
Reduced Availability of Co-insurance and Reinsurance Arrangements Admiral uses proportional A potential need to raise additional Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that co-insurance and reinsurance capital to support underwriting.
ithas a strongly-rated and diverse range of partners.
Admiral has enjoyed across its insurance businesses This could be in the form of equity a long term relationship with one of the worlds strongest reinsurers, toreduce its own capital needs or debt.
Munich Re, which has supported Admiral since 2000. and increase return on the capital Return on capital might reduce Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers, including it does hold and to mitigate the compared to current levels.
Amlin Re, Hannover Re, Mapfre Re, New Re, Swiss Re and XL Re.
cost and risk of establishing newoperations.
In the UK, co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements have been agreed until at least the end of 2016, reflecting confidence in the Admiral UK Car There is a risk that support will not be Insurance business.
The long term agreement with Munich Re covering available in the future if the results 40% of the UK Car Insurance business will remain in place until at least and or future prospects of either the theend of 2018.
UK business or more realistically one or more of the newer operations Long term arrangements are also in place for international and are not satisfactory to the cohousehold businesses.
Potential Diminution of Other Revenue Admiral earns Other revenue Lower profits from insurance Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customer of the products froma portfolio of products operations and lower return itoffers, and makes changes to ensure the products continue to offer andother sources.
The level of this revenue could Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue diminish due to regulatory or legal from a range of products.
This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory changes, customer behaviour or change which might affect a particular product or income stream.
Underwriting Risk in UK and International Car Insurance The Group is exposed to the risk Higher claims costs and loss ratios, There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK that claims costs on business written reducing profitability or resulting in underwriting results, including: and earned in the future is higher underwriting losses.
Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business than expected.
areas including pricing and claims management This might arise due to very large or Highly data-driven and analytical approach to business decisions, catastrophic man-made or natural particularly pricing individual or multiple claims.
Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems andprocesses Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
The Group continues to work to establish similar expertise in its newer international businesses.
A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 34 34 x ADM ar13 front.
indd 34 10 03 2014 11:24:07 S STR TRA ATE TEG GIC IC C CO OR RPO POR RA ATE TE F FIINAN NANC CIAL IAL O OTHE THER R IIN NT TR ROD ODU UC CTI TION ON R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV VER ERN NA ANC NCE E S STAT TATE EM ME EN NT TS S IIN NF FORM ORMA ATI TION ON RISK IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS Erosion of Competitive Advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains A worse UK Car Insurance result and Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to Admirals asignificant combined ratio lower return on capital employed.
combined ratio outperformance of the UK market.
Some are set out above, but advantage over the UK market.
in addition: A sustained and uncorrected erosion This advantage and or the level of of competitive advantage could affect Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market underwriting profit and associated the ability of Admiral to extend its conditions and developments profit commission could be eroded.
reinsurance arrangements, which Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient might in turn require Admiral to hold acquisition costs more capital.
Failure of Geographic and or Product Expansion Admiral continues to develop and Higher than planned losses and Admirals approach to expansion remains conservative.
Overseas insurance support the overseas operations.
potentially closure costs and businesses have executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by During 2012 Admiral also launched distraction of key management.
proportional reinsurance support which provides substantial mitigation against a home insurance product.
start-up losses in the early years.
A collective failure of these One or more of the operations businesses would threaten Admirals New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment with could fail to become a sustainable, objective to diversify its earnings the extent of improvement in trading key performance indicators such as average profitable long term business.
byexpanding into new markets cost per quote and conversion ratio.
The Group also considers partial disposals of andproducts.
equity to share start-up losses with partners.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess thesuitability of the management structure in place for Admirals international operations.
The new UK Household Insurance business is backed by proportional reinsurance support which provides mitigation against start-up losses and excess of loss reinsurance which mitigates potential losses from catastrophe events.
Competition in UK Price Comparison Admiral is dependent on the four A potentially material reduction in UK Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price main UK price comparison websites Car Insurance new business volumes.
comparison websites which operates independently of the UK Car as an important source of new Insurancebusiness helps to mitigate the risk of over-reliance on this The impact on Confused.
com of higher business and growth.
levels of competition in the price Growth in this distribution channel comparison market, either through Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price could slow, cease or reverse, or the aggressive activities of existing comparison businesses and therefore it is not considered probable Admiral could lose one or more of players or the entry of significant new that a material source of new business would be lost.
the websites as a source of participants would be to lower profits.
com maintains a very keen awareness customers.
However, a more competitive of the risks of continued competition.
market might benefit the car insurance business through lower acquisition costs.
Credit Risk of Significant Counterparties Admiral is primarily exposed to Additional capital may need to be Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial credit risk in the form of a default raised as a result of a major credit strength.
In addition, most reinsurance contracts are operated on a funds of reinsurer and b failure of banking event, dependent on its nature withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk, as Admiral holds the or investment counterparty.
One or more counterparties Admiral would also need to ensure With respect to investment counterparties, there are no specific suffer a significant event leading that it had sufficient liquid assets to concentrations of credit risk due to the structure of the liquidity funds which to a credit default.
meet its claims and other liabilities invest in a wide range of very short duration, high quality securities.
balances and deposits are placed only with highly rated credit institutions.
Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail and has in place appropriate limits to mitigate exposure to individual investment counterparties.
The Board also considers the following risks to Read more on Admiral Groups Corporate This Strategic Report was approved be significant: Responsibility CR strategy: bytheBoard of Directors and signed www.
onitsbehalf by: Customer Conduct Risk failure of products or service to meet customer IT Development Risk failure to invest in expectations and failure to address appropriate technology to support the customer complaints promptly or Groups future business development, appropriately.
Further detail on how mitigated by regular review of the Henry Engelhardt Admiral interacts with its customers is set effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Chief Executive Officer out on page 14 and in the Corporate executive management and the Board.
4 March 2014 Responsibility CR Report available online.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with People Risk failure to recruit, develop and regulatory requirements and or changes, retain suitable talent.
Further detail on how mitigated by regular review of the Groups Admiral interacts with its employees is set compliance with current and proposed out on page 15 and in the CR Report requirements and interaction with available online.
regulators by executive management andthe Board.
A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 3 35 5 x ADM ar13 front.
