38 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PrinciPal risks and uncertainties Effective assessment and management BG Enterprise Risk Management Framework oftheGroups principal risks, and monitoring ofassociated controls and sources of assurance, is integral to the Groups management andgovernance processes.
EXTERNAL FACTORS STRATEGIC DECISIONS Geopolitical and macro economic Such as portfolio mix, mergers, BGGroups approach to risk management risks e. g. commodity prices, acquisitions and disposals andinternalcontrol is articulated and foreign exchange, interest rates PRINCIPAL managed through the Groups Enterprise RISKS RiskManagement ERM Framework.
The ERM Framework isthe process by which: the nature and extent of the Groups principalrisks are identified and assessed: BRMP the Board and management determine whichof those risks the Group iswilling PROJECT toaccept and manage in the pursuitof its OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL DELIVERY strategic, financial and businessobjectives: the Group evaluates the risks it faces in the short and longer term: Exploration, Post first-gas oil Asset level drilling, operational financial risks the Group puts in place appropriate project delivery risks e. g. credit, tax management systems to mitigate those risks: the management and mitigation of risks HSSE, Subsurface uncertainty viaassociated internal controls are monitored and assured through ongoing Board and management oversight processes: the effect of uncertainty onthe Groups isabottom-up process that facilitates the The BRMP risks, taken together with the cashflow andearnings profiles is modelled identification, assessment andmanagement top-down risks to achieving our strategic goals andused asan input to decision making: and ofproject delivery, operational and financial identified at a corporate level, presents the the Group seeks to optimise its capital riskswithin the assets andcentral functions.
overall viewof risk withinthe Group, and forms structure and allocation, and its portfolio, TheGroups Risk Management Committee, the basis oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties onarisk adjusted basis.
asub-Committee ofthe Group Executive discussedinthis report.
The GEC and Board Committee GEC, receivesquarterly updates receive updates on the principal risks and One of the key components of the Groups onthese bottom-up risks, howtheyare howthey are being managed and mitigated.
overall ERM Framework is the Business Risk beingmanaged and, whereappropriate, Management Process BRMP.
The BRMP mitigated, as reported through theBRMP.
managing the grouPs PrinciPal risks The Boards risk priorities in 2013 The Board considers the full range of principal risks facing BG Group.
However, during 2013, certain issues have received additional prominence in Board discussions.
The principal risks upon which the Board has been most focused in 2013 include: Project and milestone delivery Successful delivery of the Groups major growth projects safely, to schedule the Groups control for example, the operations ofnon-controlled and on budget, while optimising operational and cost performance jointventures, weather, contractor performance, unplanned outages inexisting producing assets, and in line with the expectations of the orpolitical events.
market, remains a critical success factor of the Group.
Australia Each year, the Group provides quarterly milestones for the year ahead In Australia, substantial progress on delivering the QCLNG project that underpin the Groups longer-term expectations for: i progress wasmade during the year, and the Board visited QGC in November against its strategic objectives: and ii production, unit cost and capital 2013to review progress and meet with the management team charged expenditure levels.
In formulating these milestones, and longer-term with delivery of the project.
A number of important milestones financial andoperational metrics, the Group undertakes a detailed werereached, providing the Group with confidence that the project forecasting andplanning process, with oversight and assurance from remains onbudget and on schedule to deliver first LNG in the central Groupfunctions, theGEC and the Board.
During 2013, arigorous fourthquarter of 2014. challenge and assurance process was undertaken to validate the Groups business plan assumptions.
Building onthis process, the Groups business Notwithstanding this progress in 2013, and the consequent project plan and forecasting processes will remain subject to regularreview and fide-risking that has occurred, a number of cost, schedule and commercial assurance in 2014, with any further recommendations forimprovement risks remain, owing to the overall projects inherent scale and complexity, being considered by management and the Board.
involving the integration of three major projects in themselves: upstream coal seam gas CSG development drilling, compression facilities, The Groups businesses around the world are, however, exposed to andwater treatment plants : the export pipeline from the CSG fields anumber of risks and uncertainties that could, individually or taken tothe Queensland coast: and the commissioning and start-up of the together with others, have a material adverse effect on project delivery LNG planton Curtis Island.
for2014, other guidance provided by the Group tothe market including in relation to production, cash flows, operating profit andoperating and Key risks to Phase 1 of the project include sub-surface uncertainty, capital expenditure and, in turn, shareholder returns, including dividends construction workforce productivity, industrial relations, the and BG Groups share price.
Some of these risks involve factors outside commissioning and start-up ofupstream facilities and the LNG plant, BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Principal risks and uncertainties 39 Project and milestone delivery continued Australia continued theimpact of possible adverse weather events, management of ramp BG Group works in partnership with the operator, Petrobras, to optimise gas during LNG plant commissioning, contractor performance during fielddevelopment, but any commercial, technical or schedule misalignment the remainder of theproject, residual land access issues and environmental could have a material impact on BG Groups field development plans and permitting.
Inparticular, asthe Group continues to undertake commissioning expectations.
In addition, any eventual constraints on the ability of Petrobras workfor installed infrastructure, there may beunforeseen difficulties to fund their significant investment programme could also have an constraining the Groups ability to be flexible on the sequencing of such impact on joint development plans.
work, which couldintroduce furthercost and schedule uncertainty.
Egypt Looking forward to the next phase of overall QCLNG development, During 2013, the Board focused heavily on evaluating the impact of theGroups ability to optimise value from the project is dependent onthere theevolving political, business and economic environment in Egypt being asufficient supply of gas to the plant, combined with optimising andreceived regular updates from senior management.
future capital expenditure and schedule.
Tomitigate wellperformance and sub-surface uncertainty, the Group continues toupdate the priority Despite the temporary evacuation ofnon-essential expatriate staff, of wells within our drilling programme to reflect developing knowledge of operations of the RosettaandWDDM production facilities, along with the sub-surface, and we are progressing with an exploration and appraisal ongoing drilling activity, continued unaffected.
As one element ofthe programme.
The Group is also accessing short-term third-party volumes recovery plan for reducing production decline in the WDDM concession, to deliver into QCLNG.
To mitigate future capital expenditure and schedule BGGroup and itspartner approved thenext phase of development uncertainty, lessons learnt from thefirst phase of QCLNG are being applied Phase9a forWDDM in February 2013.
However, higher than agreed tooptimise execution schedules and contracting strategies.
gasvolumes were directed to the Egyptian domestic market, impacting volumes available forLNG export and reducing supply options in the Brazil Groups LNGshipping and marketing business.
This led the Group to The development of Brazils Santos Basin pre-salt fields is oneof the largest issue ForceMajeure notices to buyers in January 2014.
2013results included and most technically and commercially complex oil and gas plays in history.
anon-cash, post-tax impairment of $1.3billion inEgypt, duetoreserves While residual uncertainty remains as to the nature and productivity of the revisions and revised expectations of thevalue of the GroupsEgyptian reservoirs, as theappraisal programme matures our understanding and operations, given continuing uncertainty over the business environment confidence in these world-class resources improve.
Asat 31December 2013, the Groups receivable balance from Egypt General Petroleum Corporation EGPC inrespect ofdomestic gas Good cost and schedule progress was made in 2013, with two further saleswas $1.2 billion, ofwhich $0.5 billion wasoverdue.
The recovery floating production, storage and offloading FPSO units brought online ofreceivables, further investment and the realisation ofthe carrying and the next two due to be brought online in 2014.
However, any delays valueof the Groups Egyptian operations remain dependent onthe in receiving, installing or making critical sub-sea equipment operational, business environment inEgypt, which BGGroup continues tomonitor or the non-availability of specialised vessels, could have amaterial closely.
TheGroup will continue to negotiate with Egyptian authorities impact on the ability to ramp up operations as planned.
TheBoard and andother stakeholders to seek along-term solution.
Further detail on senior management received regular updates during 2013 andwere the role of the Audit Committee in considering this impairment and given the opportunity to challenge cost and schedule progress.
therecoverability of the EGPC receivables is set out on page 57. caPital requirements, liquidity and interest rates BG Groups ability to deliver its strategic growth objectives is dependent could affect adversely the Groups financial and business performance on a number of factors, including the ability to fund capital intensive and the Groups ability to access financing on attractive terms.
A credit development projects, at present most notably in Australia and Brazil.
or debt crisis affecting sovereign states, banks, financial markets and or the economy more generally could affect the Groups ability to raise capital.
The Groups capital requirements depend on a number of factors, includingvariations in the planned level of capital expenditure, funds BG Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated with fromoperations, prevailing hydrocarbon prices in core markets, exchange refinancing borrowings as they mature and the risk that financial assets rates, and the results of portfolio rationalisation activities.
Some of these cannot readily be converted to cash without loss of value.
The Group factors are outside the Groups control and may cause capital requirements invests surplus funds primarily in short-term, liquid investments that to vary materially from planned levels.
are readily convertible to cash, and imposes limits on the amount of borrowings that can mature within any specific period.
In addition, Funding plans are updated throughout the year and are subject to theGroup maintains access to a minimum level of committed borrowing review and challenge by the Finance Committee.
Base and downside facilities, to be used as a source of back-up liquidity.
These facilities, cases are presented, together with funding proposals for each.
Probabilistic which are held with a diversified group of major banks, totalled $5.2billion outcomes of cash flows are derived using cash flow at risk studies and were undrawn as at 31 December 2013. thattake account of potential variations in, and correlations between, commodity prices, exchange rates, project delivery and operational BG Groups financing costs may be adversely affected by interest rate performance.
Refer to the principal risk disclosure on Commodity volatility.
The Groups interest rate risk management policy requires that Pricesand Exchange Rates on page 40 for further detail.
substantially all borrowings are floating rate.
Exceptions to this policy require approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
In light ofthe In response to changing requirements, the Group may adjust its portfolio current low interest rate environment, a substantial proportion ofthe management programme or capital expenditure plans.
This may have Groups debt is currently held under fixed interest rate arrangements.
an impact on planned growth.
Increases in the Groups capital requirements concentration risk Over the coming decade, BG Group will be increasingly exposed Inaddition, as a substantial portion of the Groups LNG willbe destined toportfolio concentration risk on both the supply and demand side.
forChina, BG Groups exposure on the demand side willbecome In2013, BG Group produced hydrocarbons in 12 countries, with no increasingly weighted towards that country.
morethan 18% coming from any one, and sold LNG to companies in15countries, with no more than 34% to any one market.
Asourlarge Concentration risk was discussed in particular detail at the Board growth projects in Brazil and Australia progress, the Groups supply Planning Conference in 2013 and will remain a topic for Board portfolio will become more dependent on these two countries.
Strategic report 40 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 managing the grouPs PrinciPal risks continued licence to oPerate BG Group works in partnership with governments and national oil BGGroup does not recognise, and take account of, theinterests companies to secure access to new resources and successfully monetise andrights of the communities where itoperates.
This partnership is most effective when it fully reflects create, maintain and strengthen itslicence to operate wherever the socio-economic, environmental and political impact of the activities itdoesbusiness.
ofBG Group and its partners.
Increasingly, pressures from populations and advocacy groups have led to unforeseen changes inregulatory or legal Initiatives that were discussed by the Board in 2013, with the objective conditions.
There are political pressures inmany countries where BG Group ofstrengthening our licence to operate, included continuing to build operates.
Specifically, socio-political instability inEgypt in2013 continued relationships with all interested and affected parties in Australia, our toimpact the business environment negatively and contributed to higher socialinvestment programme and engagement on macroeconomic volumes of production being directed to the domestic market than risks in Tanzania, consultation with indigenous peoples in Honduras expected in 2013. prior to commencing aerial surveys, and ongoing social and environmental work in western Canada.
In common with others in the sector, BG Group expects to see this areaof risk increase over coming years.
This may be exacerbated if cyber security risk As for many organisations, cyber security risk to BG Group has increased in During 2013, the Audit Committee undertook a detailed review of the recent years.
Increasingly sophisticated techniques from an ever growing Groups approach to the mitigation of cyber security risk.
This review number of sources are being used to target the Group.
These may seek highlighted the high-level monitoring activity conducted by and on tocompromise or attack computer networks to obtain information behalf ofthe Group.
The Committee also received the results of an and or cause harm.
The consequences of this activity could include independent maturity assessment completed against the 10 Steps financial loss, information loss, disruption of business operations toCyber Security guidelines issued by the UK Government ortheunavailability of systems.
The Group is responding bydetection, Communication Headquarters.
investigation and mitigation measures, including throughtheuse ofspecialist third-party service providers.
asset integrity, safety, health and security Oil and gas exploration and production activities carry significant inherent risks The Group seeks constantly to improve controls and barriers designed to relating to asset integrity, major accident hazards including marine incidents prevent incidents occurring or to mitigate their impact, and has developed and well control incidents.
Incidents may result in loss of life or injury to improved processes for managing HSSE risks during 2013.
Contractor members of the public or BG Group employees and contractors, damage safety management is recognised as an essential part of good safety tothe environment or damage to facilities.
There may be associated loss or management.
The Group seeks to ensure that its worldwide contractor deferment of production and revenues or delay cancellation of exploration community understands and applies the Groups safety culture and activities.
Other occupational safety risks associated with the Groups activities processes.
In seeking to reduce to as low as reasonably practicable may be present, including from driving.
The Group may also incur costs therisk of asset failure, it is mandatory for every operated asset to have associated with mitigation, recovery and compensation.
aSafety Case in place that identifies and describes associated hazards, andto have measures in place tomanage them.
BG Group is exposed to security threats and works closely with governments and industry bodies to identify and manage them.
Acts of terrorism, piracy, The Board, through the Sustainability Committee, continues to take civil unrest or criminality may affect the Groups employees and contractors, anactive role in the review and management of safety and asset plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or computer systems, and could integrity performance and, during 2013, reviewed and challenged severely disrupt its business and cause harm to people and the environment.
BGGroup has a crisis management programme to respond to such events.
Theprogramme is based on a three-tier approach of local emergency BG Group is also subject to various health and safety laws in jurisdictions response, asset-level incident management teams and, for the most serious around the world.
Failure to comply with such laws could impact the incidents, aGroup-level crisis management team.
Response plans and Groups reputation, could have an adverse effect upon the willingness procedures have been developed and are tested regularly, including through ofstakeholders to work with the Group, orcould affect its licence simulations of event scenarios.
In 2013, the Group activated its crisis plans tooperate in any particular territory.
New laws and regulations may todeal with the public disorder and political turmoil that affected Egypt resultinBG Group having to introduce operating procedures or curtail and the Board closely followed the safe and successful evacuation of orceasecertain operations, which could diminish productivity and non-essential expatriate employees and their families from Egypt.
materially and adversely impact the results ofoperations.
other PrinciPal risks to bg grouP in alPhabetical order commodity Prices and exchange rates BG Groups cash flows and profitability are sensitive to commodity While industry costs tend to rise or fall with commodity prices in the long prices for crude oil, natural gas, LNG and other hydrocarbons.
term, there is no guarantee that movements in sales prices and costs will align in any year.
This can put pressure on investment and project economics The Groups exposure to commodity prices varies according to a number which depend in part upon the degree and timing of commitments offactors, including the mix of production and sales.
Oil prices are one inline with particular cost structures.
of the most significant drivers of BG Groups profitability.
BG Groups sensitivity tocommodity prices arises from thepurchase of third-party The Group does not hedge all commodity prices as a matter of course, supply, the direct sale of commodities into spot markets and the but may hedge certain expected commodity sales, LNG contracts indexation terms inlonger-term sales contracts.
TheGroups portfolio andother revenue streams from time to time.
In marketing its energy alsoincludes a range of long-term gas contracts thatare not directly portfolio, BG Group may undertake commodity hedging and trading linked to short-term changes in commodity prices.
activities, including the use of option contracts, futures contracts financial and physical, forward-based contracts and swap contracts.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Principal risks and uncertainties 41 commodity Prices and exchange rates continued Thestandalone value of hedges can move significantly, potentially Potential variations in commodity prices and exchange rates, along increasing the volatility of cash required for margin calls and the withother major risk factors, are considered as part of corporate accounting profit recognised within a particular quarter.
Projects and investments are screened against a wide range of external sensitivities, including benchmark Group capital expenditure in US Dollars depends on prevailing exchange commodity prices.
Insights into the impact of changes in commodity rates, particularly for the Australian Dollar, the Brazilian Real and Pound price risks and foreignexchange rates are enhanced through Cash Sterling.
The Group does not apply any minimum hedging levels as FlowandEarnings atRisk models, which consider the combined effect amatter of course but instead takes into account factors such as the ofavariety ofmarket and operational risks on BG Groups business.
volatility of cash flows and the correlation between exchange rates andcommodity prices in determining whether, and to what extent, itwill hedge hydrocarbon price or exchange rate exposures.
counterParty risk BG Groups exposure to counterparty credit risk takes the form of a loss impact successful project delivery and implementation.
As discussed that would be recognised if counterparties including sovereign entities above, we are exposed to significant counterparty credit risk in Egypt.
failed or were unable to meet their payment or performance obligations.
These include commodity sales, trading and hedging, treasury derivatives The financial and credit condition of counterparties is considered and cash investments, and partnerships and arrangements with priorto entering into commercial contracts, trading sales agreements, contractors and suppliers.
swaps, or futures and options contracts.
Contractual orother forms of protection or mitigation maybe sought, including cash collateral, letters The Group is also exposed to political and economic risk events that of credit, and security overasset orparent company guarantees.
Further maycontribute to non-payment of financial obligations to BG Group information canbefound intheFinancial statements: see note 18, bygovernments or government-owned entities, or which may otherwise page117.
environment and climate change Policies and initiatives at national and international level to address climate environmentally sensitive.
There are a range of stakeholder concerns change may affect business conditions and demand for energy sources.
related to the production of hydrocarbons using hydraulic fracturing Policy approaches that promote use of alternative energy sources, such as techniques.
These include the potential for contamination or depletion renewables and nuclear power, may affect the Groups ability to maintain oflocal water sources, impact upon the natural environment and its position in key markets.
Additionally, regulations intended to establish thepossibility that such operations maycause minor seismic events.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions trading schemes, taxes or performance Inaddition, local communities may have concerns about the impact standards could alter hydrocarbon production economics.
In 2013, BG Group ontheir land and property rights.
As a result, there is a risk that laws was subject to carbon taxes pricing inAustralia, and the European Emissions orregulations in this area may increase cost, attract adverse publicity Trading System in the UK andNorway.
orrestrict or prohibit the successful delivery of projects.
BG Groups activities may adversely affect the environment through Our internal management approach aims to reduce impacts and risks therelease of hydrocarbons or chemicals, including maritime oil spills, related to the natural environment throughout the lifecycle of an asset.
noisepollution, management of produced water, the visual impact of BGGroups Business Principles commit us to making a positive contribution gasand oil infrastructure and the emission of pollutants.
Release of to the protection of the environment, to meet internationally accepted hydrocarbons mayresult in significant fines, liabilities or other losses.
bestpractice and reduce to as low as reasonably practicable the effects Onshore or marine ecological habitats may also be adversely impacted ofour operations on the environment.
We implement these principles bydrilling, well operations, pipelines and other infrastructure.
In Brazil, through our HSSE Policy and Environmental Standard.
All BG Group theGroups oil spill exposure continues to grow as more oil is produced operated assets have their environmental management system inthe Santos Basin and shuttle tanker operations increase significantly.
BGGroups Climate Change Public Measures to tackle loss of biodiversity, together with policies intended to Position commits the Group to reducing GHG emissions intensity and protect local habitats, may limit access to reserves in areas deemed to be details its approach to managing the risks of climate change.
geoPolitical and macroeconomic risks As noted above, BG Groups cash flows and profitability are sensitive to impasse.
Although the eurozone appears to have exited the crisis zone, commodity prices for crude oil, natural gas, LNG and other hydrocarbons.
continued economic weakness in the area remains an ongoing source of Asignificant slowdown in global demand for oil would impact oil prices uncertainty.
Any or all of these issues could have serious consequences for and hence revenues.
Such an outcome could be driven by a variety of global financial markets and hence global growth and commodity prices.
macroeconomic and geopolitical factors outside of BG Groups control.
On the geopolitical front, there remains the potential for instability in On the macroeconomic front, for instance, there could be a serious the Middle East to affect both the demand and the supply side of global slowdown in China and or other emerging markets.
Another risk is the energy markets.
Tensions in East Asia between China and Japan, and threat of a US debt default or another government shutdown budget between North and South Korea, are also notable geopolitical risks.
government take contract renegotiation, taxation, exProPriation or other action Governments or regulators may act or intervene in a way that BG Groups risk exposure in this area is continuous and evolving.
In 2013, diminishes ordestroys value for BG Group, through expropriation there was an ongoing debate around legislative, regulatory and fiscal ofassets or property, or by altering fiscal or other commercial terms frameworks forthe oil and gas industry in Tanzania and Kenya: there governing oil, gas and LNG operations for the industry generally or were federal elections in Australia that featured debate around energy BGGroup specifically.
These may include the imposition of higher taxes, policy: andstate elections in British Columbia highlighted LNG projects royalties or local content or domestic market requirements, especially suchas that which BG Group iscurrently evaluating.
Various fiscal-related where such government or regulatory bodies face financial pressures.
discussions are also ongoing in Brazil.
BG Group works closely with Governments may also act in away that delays project schedules or itspartner Petrobras andthe relevant Brazilian authorities to achieve increases costs, thus eroding value.
Strategic report 42 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 other PrinciPal risks to bg grouP continued human resources caPacity caPability BG Groups performance, operating results and future growth depend BG Group takes a systematic approach to resourcing to ensure it can on its ability to attract, retain, motivate and organise sufficient people meet its long-term human resource needs, operating short and long-term with the appropriate level of expertise and knowledge.
Competition resourcing demand models to predict and manage the people requirements fortalented, suitably experienced and qualified specialists in upstream that underpin the Groups business plans.
The Group aims to identify exploration and production and other project development and the best people through succession planning and talent management, technical areas is intense.
insufficient exPloration success reserves rePlacement Sustaining long-term reserves replacement and production growth is akey may be lower than estimated.
Estimates ofreserves and resources may part of BG Groups strategy.
Reserves replacement is affected by the ability to be subject to revisions.
Changing regulations and guidelines may lead mature resources into reserves in a timely manner.
This may occur for many tochanges in the estimation and classification of reserves.
Increased reasons, including successful discovery and development of hydrocarbon regulation for example, environmental may delay, prevent or make resources: the acquisition of sufficient new resource opportunities: sufficient more costly the maturation of resources and reserves.
Changes to tax field appraisal: reservoir quality and performance: accurate interpretation of rules or a decline in the price of gas oroil may make reserves and or received data: drilling conditions or costs: rig availability: availability of suitable resources, previously deemed to be recoverable, uneconomic to develop.
human or technical resources: and regulatory and or commercial issues.
Changes to gas and oil prices in fields subject to Production Sharing Contracts PSC may result in revised entitlements.
Changes in perspectives There may be insufficient addition of new resources and reserves to on political risk may also result inreserves and resource changes arising enable future economically viable production and maintain production from PSC extension expectations and or equity reductions.
Competition for exploration and development rights and access to gas and oil resources is intense and requires continuous innovation.
BG Group also faces risks from unfavourable unitisation decisions Where such rights are awarded, there is no guarantee that hydrocarbons wherever the Group holds an interest in a field that may extend outside in commercially viable quantities will be discovered.
Maturation of the boundaries of concession or licensing areas.
Unitisation is technically discovered resources may not optimise value.
The quantity and quality and commercially complex and involves not only a negotiation based of geological, technical and economic data may ultimately prove insufficient oninterpretation ofdata, but also requires in-depth knowledge of forestimating resources and reserves.
Unitisation decisions could also work in the Groups favour.
Groups ability to interpret data appropriately may be limited.
Insufficient pre-sanction field appraisal may lead to sub-optimal project sanction The Group Reserves Committee, chaired by the Executive Vice President, and or field development plans.
BG Advance, provides an independent review of the Groups reserves process and considers any material changes to the reserves and resources Gas and oil reserves and resources cannot be measured precisely.
TheReserves Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee estimation process involves subjective judgements.
In joint ventures, the endorsed final reserves and discovered resource estimates, setting estimates of total reserves and resources may not align with the estimates outthe process usedtodetermine these final estimates.
In addition, actual reservoir performance mergers, acquisitions and disPosals The Groups strategy to manage its portfolio more actively depends an acquisition.
The Group may also retain unforeseen liabilities for ontargeting new investments and disposals effectively, focusing its divested businesses if the buyer fails to honourits commitments portfolio on a limited number of high-quality, valuable assets, and delivering ortheGroup agrees or is obliged to retain suchliabilities.
BG Group may fail to make or successfully integrate acquisitions, orfail to complete divestment agreements.
Board approval isrequired for material acquisitions and divestments.
Acquisitions may result in significant unanticipated costs and liabilities, BGGroupundertakes business, legal, tax and financial due diligence including the cost of effectively integrating acquisitions to realise prior to acquisition ordivestment to seek toidentify and evaluate efficiencies, and impairment or restructuring charges.
The Group may material risks and plan theintegration or business separation process.
beliable for past acts or omissions, and liabilities it has acquired may be The Group carries out post-investment reviews to assess theintegration unforeseen or greater than anticipated.
There may be delays in completing and performance of material acquisitions.
Partner dePendency A material portion of BG Groups business is conducted by joint ventures, aswell as ethical conduct and technical andoperational matters.
Nonetheless, associates, partners, contractors or sub-contractors.
In many cases, BG Group BG Group endeavours to influence these ventures toadopt improved is not the operator or does not have full operational control and, in these standards, controls andprocedures if it is felt that current practices do not instances, BG Group has a dependency on third parties to achieve its adequately address significant risks orresult insub-optimal performance.
strategic and business objectives in a safe manner and on time and budget.
While the Group strives to be strategically aligned with all partners, insome Where the Group works in joint ventures in which it does not exercise sole instances a partners business interests may not be in alignment with those control, it may have more limited influence over ventures and how they are of BG Group.
Where the Group is a non-operator, its partner s may determine managed.
Management of these non-controlled joint ventures may vary a field development plan that is not aligned to that of BG Group.
Where from BG Groups own management and operating standards, controls and BGGroup is the operator of a joint venture, the partner s may be able to veto procedures including in relation to health, safety and environmental risks, or block certain decisions andthis may be to BG Groups overall detriment.
Project selection and sanction Selection of capital efficient projects is critical to BG Groups future risks including unexpected drilling conditions or geological irregularities, growth, reputation and financial position.
non-availability of skilled front-end resources, equipment and materials availability and cost, poor contractor performance, environmental factors, Significant issues that can impact the selection and sanction of developments permitting, landowner agreements, governmental and regulatory include: insufficient understanding of subsurface uncertainties through requirements, keystakeholder reactions, and variations in macroeconomic ineffective and or insufficient appraisal and data gathering, well engineering conditions.
In cases where BG Group is in a joint venture, development BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Principal risks and uncertainties 43 Project selection and sanction continued ofopportunities, including appraisal, concept selection and pre-sanction Recognising the importance of the front-end of project development, engineering, may not fully be under the control of the Group.
aprogramme was established in 2013 to strengthen existing capabilities.
Enhancements are underway in several areas, with emphasis on BG Group has a common and consistent approach to delivering excellence effective decision making during stages of the project lifecycle, andmanaging risk across all principal activities.
Furthermore, BGGroup management of risks and subsurface uncertainties, future front-end hasa Value Assurance Framework that delivers rigorous assurance skillsrequirements, transition of venture manager accountabilities ofprojects throughout their lifecycle, with independent reviews and between stages, and best practices on engaging with external decision points at the end of each stage to inform selection on a portfolio stakeholders and joint venture partners.
The Group will continue basis.
All major projects are subject to an independent third-party cost tofocus on these enhancements during 2014. and schedule risk analysis prior to final investment decision.
regulation, legislation and litigation The oil, gas and LNG industry is subject to legislation, regulation and including governments failing to honour contractual commitments.
intervention by governments worldwide in matters such as financial BG Group continues to manage disputes in many different countries reporting: the award and governance of exploration and production see note 22 E to the Financial statements.
interests and export licences: the imposition of specific drilling and domestic supply obligations and requirements: access to land and Corruption risk is heightened in some countries.
When considering entering facilities: environmental, ethical conduct and health and safety controls new countries territories, BG Group performs cross-functional due diligence and permits: decommissioning: and regulated commodity trading.
toidentify corruption and other risks.
The Groups future portfolio may Group business activities are conducted in many different countries change such that corruption risk increases over time.
BG Group does not andaretherefore subject to a broad range of such legislation and regulation.
tolerate corruption in any form, whether direct or indirect.
The Group is Thecost and risks of compliance cantherefore be significant.
bound by the UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act in certain subsidiaries and any local legislation that may apply.
Any actual or perceived non-compliance with applicable laws and or Corruption risk is managed through a risk-based anti-bribery and corruption regulations could lead to regulatory investigations, censure, litigation ABC compliance programme that includes training, policies and procedures, and or legal or regulatory disputes or sanctions including financial risk management, due diligence, contract management and independent penalties, debarment from award of government contracts and the monitoring.
Implementation of the programme is subject to the Groups curtailment or cessation of operations, as well as reputational damage.
control and influence over its business activities, which is less in non-operated Inaddition, in some countries, governments are facing greater pressure and non-controlled joint ventures.
An independent consultancy is engaged onpublic finances, leading to a risk of increased government take.
to assess implementation of the Groups ABC Framework in high-risk assets.
TheGroups Speak Up Policy provides the framework for whistleblowing and BG Group faces the risk of contractual disputes and litigation in all investigations and isthe basis for how allegations of breaches of laws, thecountries in which it operates, and the risk of counterparties regulations, Group Policies and Business Principles are handled.
subsurface risk Inherent uncertainty in the development of oil and gas discoveries could risk analysis are also some of the techniques used to identify and lead to detrimental well and reservoir performance outcomes that may mitigate risks to ensure that robust and flexible development strategies impact both short-term production volumes and ultimate hydrocarbon aredesigned and executed.
All discoveries are subjected to review volume recovery.
andchallenge via a stage-gated value assurance process.
Development plans are designed to be robust, given subsurface risks and Ongoing well and reservoir surveillance, reservoir management and uncertainties: however, these plans are based upon the limited sampling modelling is undertaken throughout a discoverys lifecycle to ensure and testing of only a small fraction of the total reservoir volume through that reservoir performance is understood as new data is acquired.
the placement of exploration and appraisal wells supplemented by subsurface Mitigation and optimisation activities are put in place to both imaging techniques.
All data is subject to judgemental interpretation.
BG Group actively manages subsurface risk through the adoption of a The Group scrutinises and seeks to influence our non-operated and joint common andconsistent subsurface workflow and modelling processes venture activities through the execution of parallel work programmes, implemented by subsurface experts and supported by relevant Group placement of subsurface experts in joint venture teams and the review Standards and Guidelines.
Framing, uncertainty management and decision ofthe operators subsurface processes and modelling work scopes.
imPortant notes risks and uncertainties listedhere, the Group may The Group maintains an insurance programme to also be affected adversely by other risks as yet provide some mitigation against significant losses, unforeseen orcurrently considered not to be which, as is consistent with general industry Risk identification and assurance material.
Shareholders should consider the principal practice, includes limited cover for physical damage, While BG Group has developed processes for risks anduncertainties described in this sectionin removal of debris, control of wells, re-drill, sudden identifying and managing risk, these processes conjunction with the Legal notice on the inside cover.
andaccidental pollution, andemployers and provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance third-party liabilities.
Policies purchased are and are designed to help manage, rather than Insurance subjecttolimits, deductibles and specific terms eliminate, risk.
It is not possible to be certain that Some of the major risks involved in BG Group and conditions.
In addition, premium costs are subject such processes will be successful in managing activities cannot reasonably and economically be tochanges based onacompanys lossexperience, these risks effectively or at all, not least because insured.
The transfer of risks to the insurance market theoverall loss experience of the insurance not all of these risks and uncertainties are within may be affected and influenced by constraints on markets accessed andcapacity constraints.
Risk management processes theavailability ofcover, market appetite and capacity, Insuranceis, byits nature, contingent.
Assuch, are therefore no guarantee that all risks have been pricing, and the decisions of regulatory authorities.
anyparticular insurance claim mademight not identified, or willnot materialise, or that associated BG Group may incur significant losses from different resultin a full recovery frominsurers.
In addition to the principal types of risksthat arenot covered by insurance.
Strategic report 44 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governanCe BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 The Board ofDirectorsandGroup Executive Committee, and our approachtocorporate governance andremuneration.
46 Chairmans overview 48 Board of Directors 50 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 52 Corporate governance Board visit to australia Andrew Gould, Chairman, and 62 Compliance with the UK Chris Finlayson, Chief Executive, CorporateGovernance Code view progress at the QCLNG 64 Remuneration report terminal, Curtis Island, during 80 Other disclosures theBoards visit to Australia 82 Disclosure statement inNovember 2013.
