36 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Risk Risk Management Structure Appointment of Director of Risk and Compliance The Groups Risk Management Framework provides a robust and comprehensive approach for the identification In June 2013 a Director of Risk and Compliance was appointed and management of key risks facing the business.
The risk reporting to the Chief Executive.
This appointment provides framework considers risks aligned to categories covering dedicated Risk & Compliance presence on the Executive Strategic, Market, Operational, Conduct, Legal, Regulatory Committee and focused senior leadership to drive forward and Disclosure and reports on these risks on a regular basis the activities required to meet regulatory expectations, ensure to the relevant governance meetings.
compliance with future regulatory developments such as the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and ensure robust risk management across the Group.
Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee was established in early 2013 Risk Outlook as a committee of independent directors, with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide oversight and The Group has established processes designed to assess the challenge of the appropriateness of the risk management threats to the firm via formal quarterly Risk and Control Self framework and the forward looking risks facing the Group.
Assessments RCSA and Risk Outlook workshops.
The key risks to the Group include: Risk Management Committee Strategic, Market and Operational Risks, which would include the potential impact of the vote on The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Scottish Independence.
Financial Officer, ensures that the key risks facing the Group are identified, monitored, assessed and controlled.
There The volume and significance of regulatory change e. g. is clear ownership and accountability for the day to day AIFMD, European Market Infrastructure Regulation management of risk across the Group with risk management EMIR, Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV, practices embedded within business operations.
Where risks Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA and others.
breach the Groups agreed risk appetite, they are escalated Brand and Reputation activities that result in damage to for consideration at the Risk Management Committee.
the external reputation of the Group.
Risk Appetite Risk appetite statements have been developed across the Group against all risk types, creating a baseline for how much risk the Group is prepared to accept for a specific return.
This process is aligned to the strategy development Risk activity and supported by an appropriate suite of measures universe that monitor adherence to the stated triggers and limits.
Risk appetite Our Risk Management Framework Policies The Group has developed a Risk Management Framework and methodology that incorporates a number of individual components Risk that create a robust and responsive risk capability across the Group.
Governance Management information Risk appetite has been developed and approved by the Board and provides the basis for the level of risk the Group is prepared to Capital accept.
This is reinforced through minimum standards communicated Risk Risk via the Group Policy Framework.
Management Management organisation methodologies Risk Management Information is appropriate to support Board and Committee decision making, escalating concerns as required.
Embedded Risk The Risk Management Framework supports the ICAAP process, Compliance risk practices culture assisting in determining the capital requirements of the Group.
s s e s s A M o n i t o r y f i t Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 37 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Business management are responsible The Risk Management Committee, Internal Audit and the Board Risk and for the identification and assessment together with the risk function, Audit Committees provide independent of risks, understanding the risk provides challenge on the and objective assurance on the return strategy and operating completeness and accuracy of risk robustness of the Risk Management appropriate controls.
assessments, risk reporting and the Framework and the appropriateness adequacy of mitigation plans.
and effectiveness of internal controls.
Key attributes Key attributes Key attributes Promote a strong risk culture and Overarching risk oversight across all Independent assurance on the sustainable risk-return thinking risk types robustness and application of the risk framework Promote a strong culture of adhering Understand aggregated risk positions to limits and managing risk exposures and support in developing and Assess the appropriateness and in accordance with the approved risk advising on risk strategies effectiveness of internal controls appetite and the associated policy Objective oversight and challenge to Ability to link business and risk with requirements the business areas and internal control process Ownership, responsibility and framework used in the first line The Internal Audit function provides accountability for identifying the risks The Risk Management Committee is assurance to the Audit Committee.
arising from business activities supported by the monitoring, advisory The Audit Committee report to the Ongoing monitoring of inherent and and challenging activities of the Risk Board on effectiveness of internal control identified risks and Compliance function framework Governance process includes The Board Risk Committee is chaired and committees who will review and attended by Non-Executive Directors, monitor risks efficiently and effectively providing independent oversight of the key activities of the business Risk and Control Self Assessment RCSA The RCSA is the methodology that allows our business areas to identify and assess risks, define controls and perform quarterly testing of controls.
Individual risk and control owners are assigned with explicit responsibility for the ongoing monitoring and management of risks.
The risk function undertakes a quarterly review and challenge of the RCSA and underlying evidence.
Risk Process Effectiveness of the Risk function The Risk and Compliance function is subject to regular review, both in terms of resource and the appropriateness of the skills that reside within the team.
In addition, the Board Risk Committee and Risk Management Committee are subject to effectiveness reviews with improvements being identified and implemented where required.
n e d I M i t i g a t e t r o p e R 38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Risk Principal Risks Strategic Risks Building investment credibility is dependent on the performance Platform Purpose of the portfolio.
The ability to pay a steadily increasing dividend depends upon portfolio structure and income generation.
The Trust may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investment falls in value, any borrowings will magnify the Profile Performance extent of this loss.
Borrowing facilities may not be renewed.
A lack of understanding of the Trust and its objectives could lead to a lack of demand and a widening of the discount to Net Asset Value.
Uncertainty around the debate on Scottish Independence over People such matters as jurisdiction and taxation of savings and pension plans, financial services regulation and consumer protection, currency and membership of the European Union.
Market Risks The Trust currently invests primarily in equities and fixed income securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and We have assessed the principal risks that include counterparty and market risk currency, interest rate and may impact the delivery of our business other price risk.
An explanation of these risks is included in note 23 on pages 100 to 110. priorities.
The risks have been categorised Over The Counter OTC derivatives are used in the fixed income funds managed by Alliance Trust Investments both for efficient as Strategic, Market, Operational, Conduct, portfolio management and for investment purposes.
Against each category we have considered the specific risks that impact our business and Operational Risks have outlined the risk mitigation actions One of the key risks to which all investment trusts and asset management firms are exposed is operational risk, as a taken.
We also provide details of the key consequence of operating in a complex financial environment.
activities undertaken during 2013 to Key operational risks include the availability and reliability of our core systems, reliance on third party suppliers to deliver against monitor and track risk exposures.
service levels, processing failures, IT security issues and operational errors e. g. dealing errors, administration breaches, loss of key personnel and failure to manage and deliver change initiatives.
Conduct Risks The profile of conduct risk is ever increasing including the continued strengthening and evolution of the regulatory framework.
Key aspects of conduct risks include the appropriateness of products and services, marketing campaigns and financial promotions, product design and development, complaint resolution and corporate culture.
Legal, Regulatory and Disclosure Risks The Financial Services sector continues to experience significant regulatory change at national and international level.
The FSA split into the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in 2013.
The key risk is the ability to respond to the volume and scale of mandatory regulation, including AIFMD, EMIR, CRD IV and FATCA among others.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 39 Mitigation What we did in 2013 We regularly report and monitor the performance of the Trust and Regular reporting of Trust performance and borrowing levels.
the income derived from investments.
The Trust operated within risk parameters and policies and Compliance with investment risk parameters and policies is also within approved borrowing limits.
We undertook regular meetings with key institutional Borrowing levels and facilities require the prior approval of the shareholders and arranged a number of investor forums.
Debt levels are regularly monitored and reported.
We set up a Scottish Independence working group to monitor The Trusts investment strategy has been widely communicated.
and report on developments to the Board Risk Committee.
Meetings are also held with key institutional shareholders.
We identified the key areas likely to impact our customers and We monitor developments around the Scottish Independence business as a result of the debate on Scottish Independence debate through participation in industry working groups and by and have monitored developments to assess the actions that direct interaction with UK and Scottish government representatives.
This allows us to identify actions necessary to ensure that all our customers across the UK can have full confidence in the continuity of service and that their investments and savings are protected.
The Asset Allocation Committee meets at least quarterly to oversee We continued to develop a comprehensive approach to the the allocation of capital between and among the asset classes monitoring and oversight of Investment Risks and Derivatives.
This creates the capability to oversee more complex product offerings in a robust and consistent fashion that aligns to the Exposure to market risk is assessed through stress and scenario Groups stated risk appetite.
testing of the Groups portfolios.
We enhanced the visibility of Group-wide counterparty Counterparty concentration limits are in place for all financial exposures through improved analysis and reporting, allowing instruments including bank deposits.
for a consolidated position across various exposures.
The Groups Research Centre supports the management of market risks by providing analysis of economic and socio-economic issues.
We operate an effective risk management framework which The quarterly Risk and Control Self Assessments RCSA have seeks to identify and mitigate key risks.
Policies have been been performed to identify the key operational risks facing the implemented to manage key person risks and Continuity of business and the controls tested to ensure that mitigation Business plans are maintained.
Our supplier management framework controls risks from significant Regular Risk Workshops have been held to identify emerging third party service providers.
risks and implement appropriate responses.
The Group operates an anti-financial crime policy and controls to We have also enhanced reporting and management information minimise exposure to fraud, money laundering and market abuse.
to support decision making at Board and Committee level.
Our segregation of duties and oversight of controls mitigate against We have undertaken testing of business resilience regularly the risk of conflict of interest and process failures.
incorporating disaster recovery workplace tests and scenario crisis tests to ensure the Group is able to respond to extreme events.
We manage projects rigorously to a defined plan and timescales.
We reviewed our IT security controls in conjunction with We review our IT security policies to ensure risks are continually external IT security consultants and enhanced controls to reflect assessed and relevant controls are in place.
The Group maintains customer outcome management information In conjunction with the management teams of the subsidiary which is reviewed at Board and Committee level and included within businesses the Risk team enhanced the approach to monitoring the board risk appetite measures.
and assessing customer outcome data during the year.
The customer outcome management information includes an Our customer outcome data has developed the ability to assess, assessment of future business initiatives and risk outlook.
evolve and enhance the ongoing review of customer outcomes at Board and committee level.
Training modules have been developed and risk objectives embedded to ensure delivery of appropriate corporate culture behaviours.
The Group maintains a forward radar of forthcoming regulatory We have taken action to respond to the evolving regulatory changes.
Preparedness for implementation of regulatory change is framework, including forming working groups for key assessed by the Risk Management Committee.
We have system based controls and monitoring systems to ensure During the year, the Group submitted to the regulator an compliance with relevant regulations.
Breaches are reported to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a Audit Committee and Board.
Recovery and Resolution Plan for Alliance Trust Savings RRP and an Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment ILSA.
