Risk management Amlins risk function plays a co-ordination During the year we applied the risk role in the risk review of all of the Groups operations and helps ensure that Group framework to support Amlins strategic management responds to the principal risks objectives through risk analysis of business and uncertainties faced by the business.
development initiatives, as well as further The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and their current status are set out developing our Internal Model to support on pages 44 to 47. business decision making.
The continuing During 2013, the risk function carried out a number of specific reviews including enhancement of our Enterprise Risk consideration of capital market developments Management capability was recognised by and convergence in the reinsurance market, increasing cyber risk exposures and the Standard and Poors with an upgrade of our impact of regulatory change and uncertainty.
ERM rating from Adequate to Strong in The risk framework was applied in a practical manner to support Amlins March 2013. strategic objectives through the review of the decisions to purchase RaetsMarine and James Illingworth the establishment of a start-up operation in Chief Risk Officer Germany.
In both cases, detailed risk analysis exercises were completed, to consider the capital implications through use of the Internal Model and to support management decisions.
The process was valuable in challenging and validating the business plans proposed.
During 2013, the function carried out a review of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA process and reporting.
The ORSA was considered to be an effective means of communication, so many of the changes made were evolutionary by their nature.
42 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS y f i t n e d I R e p o r t w e i An improvement plan was put in place which In 2013, the model was used to help verify our modelled exposure to such an extreme has delivered a number of enhancements to business plans.
This included the review of tail event, rather than as a response to the the reporting and analysis of key risks and reinsurance arrangements prior to the output from the model.
decision to internalise an increased The status of our six largest catastrophe proportion of the programme.
The impact In 2013, the capability of the risk function realistic disaster scenarios is shown in the on profitability, risk and capital for the main in Amlins subsidiaries was strengthened, table below.
reinsurance programmes was analysed and notably in Amlin Underwriting Limited, the this analysis showed that the planned change The Group continues to operate within the operating entity for Syndicate 2001, and to structure and pricing had a beneficial same probable maximum loss tolerance Amlin AG.
impact on forecast profit without an increase limits of 350 million for each key zone.
To support the Solvency II Internal Model in modelled capital requirements.
Compared to the position at 1 January application process, and in recognition of 2013, exposure for most zones is similar, However, we are conscious of the dangers of the growing use of the model in influencing except for the internalisation of the model reliance taking the place of human key decisions, the requirement to validate reinsurance programme placed by Amlin Re judgement, particularly for extreme potential the Internal Model has been incorporated into Europe which has increased the potential events which may expose modelling the overall risk framework.
Under the loss from European windstorm events from inadequacies.
For example, the purchase of Solvency II regulations, the risk function is 182 million to 266 million, and a the Tramline II bond, which provides cover for responsible for the governance and review reduction in the California earthquake a severe US or Canadian earthquake, was of the Internal Model used for capital setting.
scenario, due to the purchase of additional driven by our understanding of the volatility of During 2013, the Corporate Centre Risk reinsurance protection via Tramline Re II.
function redeveloped the validation process Largest Realistic Disaster Scenarios million and brought the delivery of validation reports for each entity and the Group in-house.
1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Through effective review and challenge of Gross loss Net loss Tolerance Gross loss Net loss Tolerance the model and how it is managed, Amlin North-East US Windstorm 671 279 350 622 268 350 has identified a number of opportunities to Florida Windstorm Tampa 676 273 350 606 262 350 enhance the effectiveness and use of its California Earthquake LA 439 102 350 448 161 350 Internal Model, including: European Windstorm 747 266 350 691 182 350 Japan Earthquake 360 191 350 396 182 350 Improvements in data quality controls: New Zealand Earthquake 322 175 350 290 194 350 Further enhancements to windstorm modelling: Risk management framework Enhancement of stress testing of model: and Clarifying the respective roles of local and Group Actuarial functions within Risk Policy & Risk Strategy model governance.
External validation will still be used where Risk Standards appropriate, and where additional technical expertise can add value to the construction Risk Appetite & Tolerances and development of the model.
For example, during 2013, we completed the adoption and validation of the new economic scenario Governance Accountability & Ownership Communication generator ESG used for modelling investment market risk.
In this case, because it was classified as a major change, we extended the thorough validation exercise, including external actuarial review.
Amlin believes the mix of external technical analysis with internal practical review provides a robust challenge of the model and its output.
Risk Assessment Model use Process Alongside the developing capability of the Internal Model, there is continued enhancement of use of model output to support business decisions.
The new ESG is being used in the investment team for the management of risk and in risk reporting against tolerances.
Infrastructure Challenge Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 43 v e R A s s e s s d n o p s e R Framework Foundations
