Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 299 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where Risks relating to our business these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in You should carefully review the following risk factors different economic, social and political conditions.
together with other information contained in this Credit risks relating to Avivas business Annual Report before making an investment decision Market developments and government actions regarding the relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our business, sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, Ireland, financial position, results of our operations and cash Italy, Portugal and Spain, could have a material adverse flow could be materially affected by any of these risks, effect on our results of operations, financial condition the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could and liquidity.
The continued uncertainty over the outcome of various decline due to any of these risks and investors may European Union EU and international financial support lose part or all of their investment.
programmes, and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial pressures, could further disrupt Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets global markets.
In particular, this crisis has disrupted, and could and the economy generally may adversely affect our business further disrupt, equity and fixed income markets, and has and results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
resulted in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of EU Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic members.
The issues arising out of the current sovereign debt crisis conditions generally.
A wide variety of factors, including may transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the concerns over slowing growth, high sovereign debt within, and safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the to a lesser degree outside, the eurozone, the stability and stability of European member economies, and likewise affect UK solvency of financial institutions, longer-term low interest rates and US based financial institutions, the stability of the global in developed markets, inflationary threats as well as geopolitical financial markets and any economic recovery.
We hold issues in the Middle East and North Africa, together with a lack investments in both UK and non-UK securities.
of a decisive political majority in a number of countries including If an EU member state were to default on our obligations or the US and Italy, have contributed to increased volatility in the to seek to leave the eurozone, or if the eurozone were broken financial markets in recent years and have diminished growth up entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets expectations for the global economy going forward.
Global would be significant and could impact materially all financial fixed income markets continue to experience periods of both institutions, including the Group.
Recent political negotiations volatility and limited market liquidity, which have affected a in the US over raising the US debt ceiling indicate that a risk of broad range of asset classes and sectors.
sovereign debt default and the potential adverse impact on Factors relating to general economic conditions, such as global markets which could result from this, is not limited to the consumer spending, business investment, government eurozone.
Such events could adversely affect our business and spending, the volatility and strength of both debt and equity results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
markets, and inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
In a sustained economic phase of low growth and high public Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net debt, characterised by higher unemployment, lower household unrealised value of our investment portfolio and the results income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment of our operations.
and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price insurance products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of investment portfolio, which is largely held to maturity.
Any potential material adverse effect will also be spread moves may be caused by changes in the perception of dependent upon customer behaviour and confidence.
the credit worthiness of the issuer, or from market factors such as the markets risk appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit As a global business, we are exposed to various local spreads will generally reduce the value of fixed income securities political, regulatory and economic conditions, business risks we hold.
Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally and challenges which may affect the demand for our increase the value of fixed income securities we hold.
It can be products and services, the value of our investment portfolios and the credit quality of local counterparties.
difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less We offer our products and services in Europe including the UK, liquid.
Accordingly, valuations of investments may include North America and the Asia Pacific region through wholly assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, period changes that could have a material adverse effect on our companies in which we hold non-controlling equity stakes, consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
Our international Downturns in the net unrealised value of our investment operations expose us to different local political, regulatory, portfolio may also have a material adverse effect on our business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the regulatory capital surplus based on the EU Insurance Groups demand for the our products and services, the value of our Directive and under the Individual Capital Assessment required investment portfolio, the required levels of capital and surplus, by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in the UK.
and the credit quality of local counterparties.
These risks Although our financial statements reflect the market value of include, for example, political, social or economic instability in assets, our priority remains the management of assets and countries in which we operate, discriminatory regulation, credit liabilities over the longer term.
risks of our counterparties, lack of local business experience in Losses due to defaults by counterparties, including potential certain markets, risks associated with exposure to insurance sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or affect the value of our investments and reduce our similar mechanisms set up in markets in which we are present profitability and shareholders equity.
and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential We choose to take and manage credit risk through investment incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in assets partly to increase returns to policyholders whose policies which we are conducting business through entities which we do the assets back, and partly to optimise the return for not control.
Some of our international insurance operations are, shareholders.
300 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us margins on some products.
However, our ability to lower these money, securities or other assets who may not perform under rates could be limited by competition or by contractually their payment obligations.
These parties include private sector guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or and government or government-backed issuers whose debt magnitude of changes in asset yields.
As a result, our spread securities we hold in our investment portfolios including could decrease or potentially become negative.
Our expectation mortgage-backed, asset-backed, government bonds and other for future spreads is an important component in the types of securities, borrowers under residential and commercial amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower mortgages and other loans, re-insurers to which we have ceded spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby insurance risks, customers, trading counterparties, and reducing net income in the affected reporting period.
In counterparties under swap and other derivative contracts.
addition, during periods of declining interest rates, the We also execute transactions with other counterparties in the guarantees within existing life insurance and annuity products financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, may be more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other premium payments on products with flexible premium features, investment funds, insurance groups and institutions.
Many of and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default from year to year, during a period when our new investments of our counterparty.
Accordingly, during periods of declining In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit interest rates, profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full and returns on our investment portfolio.
amount of the loan or other value due.
We also have exposure Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt our profitability.
This could arise as the accommodative instruments and derivative transactions.
Such losses or monetary policies of central banks, in particular the US Federal impairments to the carrying value of these assets could Reserve and the Bank of England, are wound down or stopped.
materially and adversely affect our financial condition and Surrenders of life insurance policies may increase as results of operations.
policyholders seek higher returns and higher guaranteed We use reinsurance and hedging programmes to hedge minimum returns.
Obtaining cash to satisfy these surrenders various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefit may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time contained in many of our long-term insurance and fund when market prices for those assets are depressed which may management products.
These programmes cannot eliminate all result in realised investment losses.
Regardless of whether we of the risks and no assurance can be given as to the extent to realise an investment loss, these cash payments would result in which such programmes will be effective in reducing such risks.
a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including income.
Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps, with a amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would also number of counterparties.
Our obligations under our fund reduce our net income.
management and life products are not changed by our hedging Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with derivative counterparties do not pay us.
Defaults by such diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability financial condition and results of operations.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less a potential impact on spreads, credit rating movements can developed bond markets and in certain markets where also impact on our solvency and our profitability and regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with shareholders equity.
reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the Market risks relating to Avivas business liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to duration.
This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment that can be managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our portfolio and impact our asset and liability matching, estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for which could adversely affect our results of operation and other reasons, such as varying mortality or general insurance financial condition.
claims, and we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability.
Such a loss could price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities associated have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and with changes in interest rates.
Some of our products, principally traditional participating products, universal life insurance and annuities, expose us to the Changes in short or long term inflation may cause risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the policyholders to surrender their contracts, increase the size difference between the amounts that we are required to pay of our claims payments and expenses and reduce the value under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn of our investments, which could adversely affect our results on investments intended to support obligations under the of operations and financial condition.
Our spread is a key component of our net income.
We are subject to inflation risk through our holdings of fixed As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be interest and other investments and as a result of the potential forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured for the cost of claims and expenses to rise faster than or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our anticipated in our pricing or reserving.
Changes in inflation investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem could also affect the value perceived to be offered by our the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and policies and so adversely affect persistency levels.
mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates which increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting or policyholder bonus rates can help offset decreases in investment Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 301 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus based on the EU impact on our investment portfolio and impact on our results Insurance Groups Directive and under the Individual Capital of operations and shareholders equity.
Assessment required by the PRA in the UK.
We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products worldwide.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that which could adversely affect our results of operations or unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, financial condition.
and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested companies have given guarantees and options, including in equities decreases.
interest rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
In material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our providing these guarantees and options, our capital position is unit-linked, participating and fund management business.
The sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign unit-linked and fund management business depends on fees currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and related primarily to the value of assets under management and equity prices.
would therefore be reduced by declines in equity and property Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on markets.
Profit could also be reduced as a result of current guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest investors withdrawing funds or reducing their rates of ongoing rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such investment with our fund management companies, or switching as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to to lower risk funds generating lower income, or as a result of minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the our fund management companies failing to attract funds from investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee new investors.
Similarly, bonuses credited to participating was made.
policyholders will reduce following declines in equity and Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity property markets and this will generally also lead to reductions markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates in transfers to shareholders.
could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy Downturns in equity markets may also have a material benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We under the EU Insurance Groups Directive and under the use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to Individual Capital Assessment required by the PRA in the UK.
mitigate some of the liability exposure and the volatility of net We provide certain guarantees within some of our products income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the that these and other actions mitigate the risks related to these equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity market conditions, benefit, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefit in the event we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefit and that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income.
For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, valuation We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely affected by these guaranteed minimum benefit increases, resulting in a weakness in property markets and increased mortgage reduction to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk indirectly in our that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, investments in residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS combined with adverse market events, produces economic and commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS and losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques covered bonds.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral may employed.
These, individually or collectively, may have a fall in value causing the investment in securities to fall in value.
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial The markets for these property investments and instruments can condition or liquidity.
become illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings and other factors may increase pricing and valuation Asset management risks relating to Avivas business uncertainties.
We are indirectly exposed to property risk through Our fund management business may be affected by the poor our UK commercial finance lending.
investment performance of the funds we manage.
Poor investment returns in our investment management Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect business, due either to general market conditions or our results of operations and financial condition.
underperformance relative to competitors or to benchmarks by We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency funds or accounts that we manage, may adversely affect our exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or various currencies.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, 60% additional assets from existing clients.
The ability of our of our premium income from continuing operations arose in investment teams to deliver strong investment performance currencies other than sterling, and our net assets were depends in large part on their ability to identify appropriate denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are investment opportunities in which to invest client assets.
If the the euro, sterling and Canadian dollar.
In managing our foreign investment team for any of our strategies is unable to identify currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as these are sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and substantially retained locally to support the growth of the new client assets on a timely basis, the investment performance business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
of the strategy could be adversely affected.
The risk that Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be operating results could lead to significant fluctuations in our unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including consolidated financial statements upon translation of the results general market conditions, and is likely to increase as our assets into sterling.
Although we take certain actions to address this under management increase, particularly if these increases occur risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially very rapidly.
This could adversely affect the management and adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions incentive fees that we earn on assets under management.
or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign currency exchange fluctuation may also have a material adverse 302 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and or The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, guidelines could result in damage awards against us and our our investments in the asset classes described in the paragraph fund management operations and loss of revenues due to above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally liquid asset client terminations.
classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, we price for the asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of our assets must comply with contractual obligations and guidelines agreed in the current market, there can be no certainty that we would with such clients in the provision of our services.
A failure to be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to lower prices.
recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their We may need to seek additional financing in the event contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and earnings internal resources are not sufficient to meet our needs.
availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of Failure to manage risks in operating securities lending of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services Group and third party client assets could adversely affect our industry and the markets perception of our financial condition.
results of operations and financial condition and for our fund Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit management operations lead to a loss of clients and a decline markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity in revenues and liquidity.
and credit capacity for certain issuers and may limit our access In operating securities lending of Group and third party client to capital required to operate and grow our business.
Such assets, our fund management operations must manage risks market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely associated with i ensuring that the value of the collateral held manner, maturing debt, satisfy statutory capital requirements against the securities on loan does not decline in value or and generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet become illiquid and that our nature and value complies with liquidity needs.
regulatory requirements and investment requirements: ii the As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue potential that a borrower defaults or does not return a loaned shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive security on a timely basis: and iii errors in the settlement of cost of capital which could decrease profitability and reduce securities, daily mark-to-market valuations and collateral financial flexibility.
Our results of operations, financial condition collection.
The failure of our fund management controls to and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
mitigate these risks could result in financial losses for us and third party clients that participate in our securities lending As a holding company, Aviva plc is dependent on our programmes.
operating subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend payments.
Liquidity risks relating to Avivas business As a holding company, Aviva plc has no substantial operations Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our of our own.
Our principal sources of funding are dividends from ability to meet liquidity needs and to access capital which subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts that could adversely affect our results of operations or may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial financial condition.
Our insurance and fund management operations are At Group level, we need some of our invested assets to be liquid generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
to pay our operating expenses, taxes, interest on our debt, Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit dividends on our capital stock and repay maturing debt.
At an the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could operational level we also need liquidity to meet insurance limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient our operations and our business would suffer.
The principal to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity company level could have a material adverse impact on considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our our business.
investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.
Sources of liquidity A requirement to pay intercompany indebtedness early in normal markets also include a variety of short and long-term could have negative consequences for our business and instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial results of operations.
paper, medium and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt, An intercompany loan was granted by Aviva Insurance Limited securities, capital securities and stockholders equity.
to Aviva Group Holdings Limited in February 2013 the balance We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as of which was 4.8 billion as at 31 December 2013.
We have privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities.
agreed with the Board of the UK General Insurance Company The valuations of such assets are based on inputs which are not AIL an appropriate target for the long term level of the internal directly observable in the market.
The inputs used reflect the loan between the Group Holding Company AGH and AIL.
assumptions that we consider market participants would That level has been set such that AIL places no reliance on the normally use based on a combination of independent third party loan to meet its stressed insurance liabilities assessed on a 1:200 evidence and internally developed models, intended to be basis.
Our prudential regulators, PRA, agree with this approach.
calibrated to market observable data where possible.
These are The effect of this would be to reduce the internal loan balance known as Level 3 asset classes in our fair value hierarchy and from its level at the end of February 2014 of 4.1 billion to represented 17% of total financial assets and investment approximately 2.2 billion.
We will complete this reduction by properties held at fair value as of 31 December 2013.
A requirement to reduce the loan more rapidly been the case across the industry, even some higher-quality or to a greater extent than planned could have negative assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent consequences for our business and results of operations and, challenging market conditions.
in particular, could impact on the ability of subsidiaries to remit dividends to the Issuer.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 303 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Insurance risks relating to Avivas business A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to reflect The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause changes in the underlying life expectancy of the population fluctuations in our results.
or of our particular portfolio used to calculate our long-term Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and business liabilities, would result in an increase in these reserves operating results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile and reduce shareholders equity.
and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are If our business does not perform well or if actual experience beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a versus estimates used in valuing and amortising Deferred geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of in-force range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this business AVIF varies significantly, we may be required to cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
accelerate the amortisation and or impair the DAC and AVIF The unpredictability and competitive nature of the general which could adversely affect our results of operations or insurance business has contributed historically to significant financial condition.
quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and results and net earnings.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by the production of new and renewal business are deferred and The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our business profitability.
future profitability of the related business.
The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns Our life insurance companies are required to make a number of assumptions in relation to the business written, including the in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses to administer the business.
mortality and morbidity rates of our customers the proportion of customers dying or falling sick, the development of interest Of these factors, investment margins and general insurance underwriting profit are most likely to impact the rate of rates, persistency rates the proportion of customers retaining existing policies up to their maturity dates and future levels of amortisation of such costs.
The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates of gross profit or margins, which expenses.
These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect.
When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance generally are used to amortise such costs.
If the estimates of gross profit or margins were overstated, then the amortisation companies allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor their experience against the actuarial assumptions used and of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual amount is known and would result in a charge to income.
assess the information gathered to refine their long-term assumptions, together with taking actual claims experience into Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortisation of the DAC related to unit-linked account.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the total amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies business, resulting in a charge to income.
Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations written by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
Changes in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of or financial condition.
AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profit capital required to be maintained, meaning that we may need to increase the amount of our reserves.
This could have a that will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force contracts in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or material adverse impact on our value, the results of our operations and financial condition.
through the purchase of a subsidiary, and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right Additionally, our management of the general insurance business requires the general insurance companies to make a to receive future cash flows from the insurance and investment contracts in-force at the acquisition date.
AVIF is based on number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
These assumptions include the costs of writing the business actuarially determined projections.
Actual experience may vary from the projections.
Revisions to estimates result in changes to and settling claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The assumptions may turn out to be incorrect, thereby the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in impairment and a charge adversely impacting on our profit.
Man-made disasters, including accidents and intentional events, are particularly to income.
Where AVIF is amortised, an acceleration of the amortisation of AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profit difficult to predict with a high degree of accuracy.
These would also have an adverse impact on our profit due to higher or margins were overstated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net than expected claims.
Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general income.
Such adjustments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
nature, could result in material losses and abruptly and Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range significantly interrupt our business activities.
of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, floods, windstorms, number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Over the past expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to prove have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the general disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our financial uncertainty as to future trends and exposure.
condition or results of operations.
Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
parties, including governmental and non-governmental Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses both the reserving and pricing of annuities.
It is likely that experienced by us.
uncertainty will remain in the development of future longevity that cannot be mitigated.
304 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the There is a risk that customer data could be lost or misused.
As a financial services group, we maintain significant amounts total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are of sensitive customer data.
Despite the controls put in place, there remains a risk that this data could be lost and or misused restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may as a result of an intentional or unintentional act by parties internal or external to us.
This could result in fines, the need to produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated.
Catastrophic events could also harm the compensate customers, the cost of remediation and a negative impact on our reputation with the consequential impact on financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also sales volumes, persistency levels, and third party managed funds, and hence adversely impact our results of operations.
reduce our ability to write new business.
Furthermore, pandemics, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt We operate in several markets through arrangements with our operations and result in significant loss of property, key third parties.
These arrangements involve certain risks that personnel and information about our clients and our business we do not face with our subsidiaries.
if our business continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership nature of the catastrophe.
Such events could adversely affect operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them our business, results of operations, corporate reputation and depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
In particular, the financial condition for a substantial period of time.
relationships depend on the allocation of control among, and Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine continued co-operation between, the participants.
the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we We may also face financial or other exposure in the event purchase.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
For example, a reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect significant proportion of our product distribution, such as our ability to write future business.
bancassurance, is carried out through arrangements with third parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon the Operational risks relating to Avivas business continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect our including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems financial condition.
Some of these arrangements require our and human error or from external events.
third-party partners to participate in and provide capital to our Our business is dependent on processing a large number of joint venture, associate and subsidiary undertakings.
Our complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
partners may change their strategic priorities or encounter Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our financial difficulties preventing them from providing the business means that accurate records have to be maintained necessary capital to promote future growth.
In addition, we outsource certain customer service, Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to technology and legacy policy administration functions to third serve our customers are designed to identify appropriately and parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not address the operational risks associated with our activities.
effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, However, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated or we human error, intentional disruption or hacking of IT systems by experience technological or other problems with a transition third parties, business interruptions, non-performance by third to or between such providers, we may not realise the full extent parties or other external events.
This could disrupt business of productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may operations resulting in material reputational damage and the experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss loss of customers, and have a consequent material adverse of business.
Failings in our outsource partners may also affect effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Although we have taken steps to upgrade systems and Our fund management operation depends on a number of processes to reduce these operational risks, we cannot key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, anticipate the details or timing of all possible operational and valuations, custody and transfer agent roles and other systems failures which may adversely impact our business.
The failure or inability to diversify sources Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential nonfor key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence obligations could lead to operational issues for us and in and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious certain products, which could result in financial losses for us reputational or financial harm.
In recent years, a number of and our clients.
multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel could due to the actions of rogue traders or other employees.
It is have a material adverse effect on our results and or financial not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the condition.
precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised always be effective.
management structure, we rely to a considerable extent on the quality of local management in the countries in which we Our risk mitigation strategies may prove less effective than anticipated.
The success of our operations is dependent, among We employ a range of risk mitigation strategies including the other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified use of equity, interest rate and credit derivatives and reinsurance professional employees.
Competition for such key employees arrangements to reduce market, credit and insurance risk.
Our ability to attract, retain and motivate key A range of different modelling approaches are used to derive employees is dependent on a number of factors, including and evaluate the strategies adopted.
The breakdown of the prevailing market conditions, our working environment and assumptions used in these modelling approaches, which may compensation packages offered by companies competing for occur during market dislocations, could cause these risk the same talent.
mitigation strategies to be less effective than anticipated and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 305 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 information Level 2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable There are inherent funding risks associated with our inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
participants would normally use Level 3.
The majority of our We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff financial assets are valued based on quoted market information pension schemes.
The defined benefit section of the UK staff Level 1 or observable market data Level 2.
At 31 December pension scheme was closed to new members from 1 April 2011, 2013, 17% of total financial investments, loans and investment with entry into the defined contribution sections being offered properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, amounting to to the staff members affected.
Closure of the defined benefit 37,171 million.
Where estimates were used for inputs to Level scheme will remove the volatility associated with adding future 3 fair values, these were based on a combination of accrual for active members.
independent third-party evidence and internally developed There are inherent funding risks associated with the defined models, intended to be calibrated to market observable data benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material reduction in where possible.
the funding position of such schemes and, in some cases, may An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value result in a deficit between the pension schemes assets and hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to our liabilities.
The factors that affect the schemes position include: valuation.
poor investment performance of pension fund investments: Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid to greater life expectancy than assumed: adverse changes in acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of interest rates or inflation: and other events occurring that their net assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and increase the costs of past service benefit over the amounts intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for predicted in the actuarial assumptions.
In the short term, the impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may funding position is inherently volatile due to movements in the be uncertainty over this value.
We test intangibles with finite market value of assets.
Where a funding deficit or surplus arises, lives when circumstances or events indicate there may be the position will be discussed with the scheme trustees to agree uncertainty over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill appropriate actions.
This may include a plan to fund the deficit and intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating unit over a period of years.
Any surplus or deficit in the defined by geographical reporting unit and business segment.
benefit pension scheme will affect shareholders equity, The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the although the IFRS position may diverge from the scheme performance of the business.
Goodwill, negative unallocated funding position.
divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down The UK pension schemes are subject to statutory for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to requirements with regards to funding and other matters relating support our carrying value.
Such write downs could have a to the administration of the schemes.
Compliance with these material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial requirements is subject to regular review.
we have failed to comply with applicable regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or our Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the relationship with current and potential contributors and calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for unitemployees, and result in adverse publicity.
linked products which may require us to compensate customers retrospectively.
The determination of the amount of allowances and A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
contracts, where product benefit are linked to the prices of Our process for valuing investments may include underlying unit funds.
While comprehensive controls are in methodologies, estimations and assumptions which require place, there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of judgement and could result in changes to investment these funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues valuations.
If our business does not perform well, we may or other causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges be required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or intangibles with indefinite and finite useful lives, which which are deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, could adversely affect our results of operations or or the methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders financial condition.
or regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give The determination of the amount of allowances and rise to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future periodic evaluation and assessment of known risks associated liabilities.
Payments due to errors or compensation may with the respective asset class.
Such evaluations and negatively impact profit.
assessments are revised as conditions change and new Moves to simplify the operating structure and activities of information becomes available and additional impairments may the Group increase the reliance placed on core businesses and need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
If the are subject to execution risk.
carrying value of an investment is greater than the recoverable As part of our move to a more simplified structure, a number amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the of business disposals and operational restructures have taken income statement in the period of impairment.
There can be no place, and may continue to occur in the future.
This includes the assurance that management has accurately assessed the level potential sale of a number of non-core businesses.
These of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our changes are expected to reduce the operational costs of the financial statements.
Group and allow resources to be re-deployed in more capital We value our fair value securities using designated efficient businesses.
There is a risk that these expected benefit methodologies, estimations and assumptions.
These securities, may not be realised.
These changes may reduce operating profit which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement in the short-term and will lead to changes in the geographical of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and and product risk profile of the Group.
The execution risk invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis for including the risks relating to securing the regulatory approvals assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in necessary to complete our planned business disposals, could accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS result in the failure to achieve cost savings, the loss of key staff, 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The fair value hierarchy gives the and disruption to core business activities and governance highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical structures which could have a material adverse effect on our assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair values business, results of operations and financial condition.
other than quoted prices based on observable market 306 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Execution risk is inherent in the completion of all strategic impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could transactions.
Such risks include uncertainty in relation to also be affected if products or services recommended by us or obtaining the required regulatory approvals on satisfactory any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether terms for the change of control envisaged by such transactions.
or not the expectations are founded or in line with the Such execution risk gives rise to a corresponding potential customers expectations for the product range.
Such a change impact on capital requirements and liquidity.
to our brand strength could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and growth in the business or new styles of doing business.
may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time Our primary brand in the UK Aviva is a registered trade mark or within budget or provide the performance levels required to in the UK and elsewhere.
We own other registered or pending support the current and future needs of the business.
Significant trade marks in the UK, including Community trade marks having resources are devoted to maintaining and developing IT systems effect in the entire EU.
We rely on a combination of contractual to keep pace with developments within the insurance and fund rights, copyright and trademark laws to establish and protect management industries.
Failure to do so could result in the our intellectual property.
Although we use a broad range of inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties reserving, to attract and retain customers or meet regulatory may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.
The requirements or only to do so at excessive cost.
We could also loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure incur higher administrative costs both from the processing of or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets business and potentially remediating disputes.
could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.
Our acquisitions may divert management attention and other Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents resources and involve risks of undisclosed liabilities and or other protections that could be infringed by our products, integration issues.
methods, processes or services or could limit our ability to offer In past years, we have completed a number of acquisitions certain product features.
In recent years, there has been around the world.
We may make further acquisitions in the increasing intellectual property litigation in the financial services future.
Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely industry challenging, among other things, product designs and affect our operating results, including the substantial amount business processes.
If a third party were to successfully assert an of management time and other resources that may be diverted intellectual property infringement claim against us, or if we from operations to pursue and complete acquisitions, or risks were otherwise precluded from offering certain features or of undisclosed liabilities or integration or separation issues.
designs, or utilising certain processes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business financial condition.
We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of environments.
our products and services and cause our sales and earnings There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our to decrease.
products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance product quality, brand strength and name recognition, fund subsidiaries may, among other things, materially increase the management performance and historical bonus levels.
In some number of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders of our markets, we face competitors that are larger, have of cash values from their policies.
The outcome of such activities greater financial resources or greater market share, offer a may be cash payments requiring the sale of invested assets, broader range of products, benefit from more advantageous tax including illiquid assets, at a price that may result in realised treatments, or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
These cash payments to policyholders would Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net employees with local experience, particularly in the emerging, income.
Among other things, early withdrawals may also cause high-growth markets, may limit our ability potential to grow us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which businesses as quickly as planned.
A rating downgrade may also impact Our principal competitors in the life market include many of sales volumes, particularly in Canada, where there is more focus the major financial services businesses including, in particular, by brokers on ratings when evaluating similar products.
The Axa, Allianz, CNP, Generali, Prudential, Legal & General and ratings provided by AM Best and Standard & Poors are Standard Life.
Our principal competitors in the general insurance considered to be the most important for distribution in Canada, market include Direct Line Insurance, Intact, RSA, Zurich, Axa and a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales.
Our principal competitors in the fund management Similarly, a rating downgrade may increase our cost of market include BlackRock, State Street Global, Fidelity borrowing or limit our access to some forms of financing.
Investments, Schroders and Aberdeen, as well as the fund management divisions of our principal competitors in the We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands life market.
of our partners and our reputation with customers and We also face competitors who specialise in many of the agents in the sale of our products and services.
niche markets in which we operate.
We believe that Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength competition will intensify across all regions in response to of our brand and reputation.
While we are well recognised, consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of we are vulnerable to adverse market and customer perception.
consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
We operate in an industry where integrity, customer trust and Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the appropriately to these competitive pressures.
outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, inadequate services, amongst others, whether true or not, could Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 307 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Regulatory and legislative risks relating to Avivas business There has been an increased focus in the UK on the fair Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory treatment of customers, in particular on the way in which the supervision both in the UK and internationally.
insurance industry or fund management industry sells and We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administers insurance policies or other products.
This has administered and enforced by a number of different included the implementation of the recommendations of the governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory Retail Distribution Review RDR from 31 December 2012. agencies, including the PRA and the FCA and other regulators.
The RDR banned product providers from paying commission to In light of wider financial and economic conditions, some of advisers on new sales and also required certain changes to the these authorities are considering, or may in the future consider, way advisers describe their services to customers.
The new enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent distribution landscape has altered the way in which retail future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions investment products are sold to customers and presents under their supervision.
These authorities may also seek to challenges to our UK distribution and advisory activities in exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or adapting to the new rules.
All of these possibilities, if they occurred, Where larger groups or matters of public policy are could affect the way we conduct our business and manages concerned, the PRA and the FCA may intervene directly.
There our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital have been several industry-wide issues in recent years in which requirements.
the PRA or the FCA or previously the FSA has intervened Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the sale of requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of mortgage-related endowments and investments in split capital directives by regulators in different EU member states may place investment trusts and payment protection insurance.
us at a competitive disadvantage to other European financial Outside of the UK, our businesses are regulated by local services groups.
In addition, changes in the local regulatory regulators that often have similar powers to the PRA and the regimes of designated territories could affect the calculation of FCA and could therefore have a similar negative impact on our solvency position.
perceptions of our businesses or have a material adverse effect Our insurance subsidiaries worldwide are subject to detailed on our business.
and comprehensive government regulation in each of the Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
Regulatory including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects that require mandatory contributions from market participants of the insurance business, which may include premium rates, in some instances in the event of a failure of another market marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing agents, participant.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen policy forms, capital adequacy and permitted investments.
markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other Government regulators are concerned primarily with the companies, may be required to make such contributions.
protection of policyholders rather than our shareholders A determination that we have failed to comply with or creditors.
applicable regulations could have a negative impact on our The failure of any of our insurance subsidiaries to meet results of operations or on our relations with current and minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject it to potential customers.
Regulatory action against a member of further examination or corrective action imposed by insurance the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative regulators, including limitations on its ability to write additional perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material business, increased supervision by regulators or the adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and implementation of resolution plans.
Any corrective action financial condition and divert managements attention from the imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, day-to-day management of the business.
results of operations and financial condition.
A decline in We will not always be able to predict the impact of future minimum capital and surplus amounts may also limit the ability legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or of an insurance subsidiary to make dividend payments or operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, distributions to us and could be a factor in causing rating results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in agencies to downgrade the insurers financial strength ratings, government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, applying to companies in the financial services and insurance results of operations and financial condition.
industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which In the UK, our business is subject to regulation by both the may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect our product PRA and the FCA, which have broad powers, including the range, distribution channels, capital requirements, dividends authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms payable by subsidiaries and, consequently, results and financing authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices, to requirements.
make product intervention rules and to require the maintenance We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to of adequate financial resources.
The PRA and the FCA have the set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such power to undertake a range of investigative, disciplinary or compliance because of changes to financial services legislation enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines or regulation.
or sanctions and to require firms to pay compensation.
The Solvency II Directive Solvency II, an insurance The PRA and the FCA may make enquiries of the companies industry regulation agreed by the European Parliament in 2009, which they regulate regarding compliance with regulations will require European domiciled insurers to move to more riskgoverning the operation of business and, similar to the other UK based capital requirements.
The implementation date for regulated financial services companies, we face the risk that the Solvency II has been extended to January 2016.
There continue PRA or the FCA could find that we have failed to comply with to be material uncertainties around the impact of the more applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action detailed technical requirements of Solvency II and around the as required.
approval of internal models and there is a risk that these could Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the lead to a significant increase in the capital required to support way in which the insurance industry or fund management our business.
industry has sold or administered an insurance policy or other In July 2013 the Group was designated by the Financial product or in the way in which they have treated policyholders Stability Board FSB as a global systemically important insurer or customers, either individually or collectively.
The initial list of nine insurance groups that have been 308 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 designated as G-SIIs also includes a number of our competitors.
Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our major The list will be updated annually from November 2014.
For so markets may conduct a review of products previously sold, long as it is designated as a G-SII, the Group is within the scope either as part of an industry-wide review or specific to it.
The of policy requirements issued by the International Association of result of this review may be to compensate customers for losses Insurance Supervisors IAIS, including: enhanced supervision they have incurred as a result of the products they were sold.
requiring the development by July 2014 of a Systemic Risk All of the above could adversely impact our results of operations Management Plan: the development of recovery and resolution or financial condition.
plans: and higher loss absorbency capital requirements, which From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing will apply from January 2019 for those insurers still designated tax laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the as G-SIIs in November 2017.
Details of the loss absorbency introduction of new tax legislation may adversely impact capital requirements are still being developed by the IAIS leading our business.
to uncertainty over their impact.
There is a risk that, if we We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world continue to be designated as a G-SII, this could lead to a and face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation significant increase in capital required to support our business of tax law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply which may give rise to a need for us to delay deleveraging plans with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage or to issue additional debt.
Similarly we could be required to tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge or a reduce or discontinue activities which contribute to systemic financial penalty.
riskiness, restructure to facilitate resolvability and or remove or If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax reduce or accelerate the planned reduction of intercompany costs associated with certain transactions are greater than debts or guarantees within the Group.
Such requirements could anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
have negative consequences for our business and results of There are also specific rules governing the taxation of operations and, in particular, could impact on the ability of policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of subsidiaries to remit dividends to the Issuer.
future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and The IAIS has no direct legal powers to impose standards on pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to either regional or national supervisors of the Group but, in the existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any UK, the PRA is taking steps to discuss G-SII requirements with tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of new UK firms to whom the designation has been applied.
rules, may affect the future long-term business and the The IAIS is also developing a common framework for the decisions of policyholders.
The impact of such changes upon supervision of internationally active insurance groups us might depend on the mix of business in-force at the time ComFrame.
The framework is designed to develop common of such change.
principles for supervision and so may result in more extensive The design of life insurance products by our life insurance regulation, particularly at group level, in those jurisdictions companies takes into account a number of factors, including which do not currently employ group-wide supervision.
The design of long-term insurance products is addition, it is not clear how ComFrame will interact with existing based on the tax legislation in force at that time.
Changes in tax regimes of group-wide supervision.
On 9 October 2013, the IAIS legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation may announced a commitment to develop a risk-based global therefore, when applied to such products, have a material insurance standard ICS by 2016.
The intention is that the adverse effect on the financial condition of the relevant longICS will ultimately form part of ComFrame.
A revised draft term business fund of the company in which the business ComFrame proposal is expected in March 2014 and ComFrame, was written.
including the final ICS, is expected to be adopted at the end of 2018 to apply from 2019.
We may face increased compliance costs as a result of recent legislation passed in the United States.
We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory In March 2010, the United States passed legislation that would investigations and examinations and may be involved in require non-United States financial institutions to enter into more in the future.
agreements to provide information on United States account We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class holders beginning in 2015.
If this information is not provided in actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to a form and with contents satisfactory to the United States tax regulatory investigations or examinations in the various authorities, a non-United States financial institution will have a jurisdictions where we operate.
These actions arise in various 30% withholding tax applied to certain amounts derived from contexts, including in connection with our activities as an United States sources.
Under the final United States Treasury insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, investor regulations, no such withholding tax will be imposed on any and taxpayer.
Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek payments made prior to 1 July 2014. significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including On 1 September 2013, regulations were introduced in the punitive damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities United Kingdom the Regulations to give effect to the involved in these proceedings have substantial powers over the intergovernmental agreement entered into between the United conduct and operations of our business.
Kingdom and the United States to improve tax compliance, Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and dated 12 September 2012 the UK-US IGA.
Under the UK-US investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict IGA, UK-based financial institutions should not be subject to a with any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or 30% withholding on US source income, unless they fail to meet investigations.
the requirements set out in the UK-US IGA and the Regulations.
In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive A number of other jurisdictions have announced that they general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual intend to introduce similar measures.
or threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Given the significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents that they cover and the uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 309 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs ordinary shares which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is The trading price of our ADRs and dividends paid on our indemnified.
These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we the exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
or the depositary fail to meet our obligations under the Deposit An ADS is a negotiable US security representing ownership in Agreement or if they wish to involve us or the depositary in a one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents legal proceeding.
ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars The holders of our ADRs in the US may not be able to in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar in US dollars.
ADRs are specifically designed to facilitate the securities to holders of our ordinary shares on the same purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
terms and conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities the securities themselves.
to the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADRs.
Agreement provides that the depositary after consultation with Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against us shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in the US dollar declines, each of the following values will making such rights or other securities available to ADR holders, also decline: including disposing of such rights or other securities and the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price distributing the net proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
of our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which Given the significant number of our ADR holders in the US, we may consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the generally would be required to register with the SEC any public US to also decline offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADR the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our of the US securities laws is available.
Registering such an ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary and offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
Consequently, we have in the past elected and may in the future elect not to make such an offer in the US, The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their including to our ADR holders in the US, and rather only conduct voting rights due to delays in notification to, and by, the such an offering in an offshore transaction in accordance with depositary.
Regulation S under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for the Securities Act.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote the same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the The ADR and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the continue to be volatile.
Deposit Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, The share price of our ADRs and ordinary shares has been holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to volatile in the past and the share price and trading volume of vote and may have limited or no recourse against the depositary our ADRs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request.
due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfill the profit expectations of Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of Deposit Agreement.
Other factors, besides our financial results, The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the market expectations of the performance and capital depositary will be liable if either of us: adequacy of financial institutions in general: are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation investor perceptions of the success and impact of our by circumstances beyond our their control strategies: exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: Agreement or potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or take any action based upon the advice of, or information sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting fund management activities: ordinary shares for deposit, any person in whose name the the operations, accounting practices or regulatory ADSs are registered on the books of the depository, any investigations, and share price performance of other person or entity having a beneficial interest deriving from companies in the insurance and fund management markets the ownership of ADRs, or any other person believed by us in which we operates: and or the depositary in good faith to be competent to give such conjecture about our business in the press, media or advice or information.
310 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 As a foreign private issuer in the US we are exempt from certain rules under the US securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than US companies.
As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortswing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
Although we must comply with UK Listing Rules on insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for US public companies.
Aviva plc is an English company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.
Aviva plc is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and our business is based in the UK.
In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the US, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the US.
As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the US upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of US courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws.
Shareholder rights under English law differ from the US.
Individual shareholders of an English company including US persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuit on behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuit by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 311 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Other information In this section Glossary 312 Shareholder services 314
