In the past, these disputes have Macroeconomic Risks and Political STRATEGIC REPORT led to sporadic violence and breaches of Risks Related to Georgia STRATEGIC REVIEW: peace-keeping operations.
In August 2008, Difficult global economic conditions the conflict in the Tskhinvali Region South RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES have had, and may continue to have, Ossetia escalated as Georgian troops a material adverse effect on the Group engaged with local militias and Russian The Groups business and performance are forces that crossed the international border, affected by macroeconomic and market and Georgia declared a state of war the conditions in Georgia and globally.
Although Georgia and years, the global economy has experienced Russia signed a ceasefire, Russia has a severe downturn, with the financial services recognised the independence of the industry facing unprecedented turmoil.
A breakaway regions and tensions remain shortage of liquidity, limited availability of as Russian troops continue to occupy funding, pressure on capital, deteriorating Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region South asset quality and significant price volatility Ossetia.
Russia is also opposed to the across a wide range of asset classes put eastward expansion of the North Atlantic financial institutions, including the Group, Treaty Organisation, potentially including under considerable pressure.
Many developed ex-Soviet republics such as Georgia and economies entered into recession and growth Ukraine.
In November 2013, Georgias slowed in many emerging economies, Association Agreement with the EU, which including Georgia.
There continue to includes a Deep and Comprehensive Free be concerns that certain countries and Trade Agreement, was initialled at the markets may experience double-dip or Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius.
The prolonged recessions, with certain markets signing of the agreement, which is expected experiencing heightened volatility over in June 2014, could potentially be met with an extended period of time.
The financial crisis was accompanied by a In addition, relations between Georgias number of related developments, including principal neighbours, Azerbaijan and an erosion of confidence in financial Armenia, remain tense, and there are institutions, increased currency volatility, sporadic instances of violence between increased counterparty risk and the risk these two countries.
Any future deterioration of systemic failures.
Such circumstances or worsening of Georgias relationship with have caused disruptions in financial markets Russia, including those related to border worldwide, leading to liquidity and funding and territorial disputes, any major changes difficulties in the international banking system.
in Georgias relations with Western Access to capital, the credit markets, foreign governments and institutions in particular direct investment and other forms of liquidity in terms of national security, any changes were significantly impaired and the cost of in Georgias importance to Western energy financing for financial institutions increased supplies, any changes in the amount of aid considerably.
As a result, the cost of granted to Georgia or the ability of Georgian borrowing in wholesale debt markets manufacturers to access world export increased for the Group and there were markets, or any significant deterioration in periods when it was not possible to raise RISKS AND relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia, finance in debt capital markets.
The may have a negative effect on the political financial crisis also had a significant and economic stability of Georgia.
UNCERTAINTIES adverse effect on the valuation of assets and the capital position of many financial In addition, the Group may be affected institutions globally.
by social, political and military unrest in For more information on our relations between Russia and Ukraine in The persistence or re-emergence of these markets, see page 12 relation to Crimea or otherwise.
The social conditions and their effects could create unrest in Ukraine in early 2014 resulted new dangers for the banking sector, both in an escalation of military tensions between globally and in Georgia, which is ongoing Russia and Ukraine in February and March and could have a material adverse effect 2014.
This resulted in international uncertainty on the Groups business, its financial and periods of heightened volatility in financial condition and the results of its operations.
markets and impacted the economic stability of Russia and Ukraine, and have resulted in Regional tensions could have an political and economic sanctions being adverse effect on the local economy imposed by Western Governments against and the Group Russia.
Russia and Ukraine accounted for Georgia, which is bordered by Russia, 6.5% and 6.6%, respectively of Georgias Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey, could be total exports in 2013.
While the direct impacts adversely affected by social, political and on Georgian economy are not likely to be great, military unrest within its borders and in the indirect impact of increased tensions, surrounding countries.
In particular, Georgia sanctions or even war could have a material has had ongoing disputes in the breakaway adverse effect on the Groups business, regions of Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali its financial condition and the results of Region South Ossetia and with Russia its operations.
since the restoration of its independence Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 20 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 As most of the Groups businesses conversion of Lari into other currencies, but acts as head of state with only limited operate only within Georgia, the it is limited in size.
While the Government of powers and Prime Minister are both from Groups success is dependent on Georgia has stated that these reserves will the same party, which won parliamentary a number of economic, political and be sufficient to sustain the domestic currency elections in 2012 and presidential elections other factors affecting Georgia that market in the short term, a lack of growth in 2013, sweeping the prior government, are beyond its control of this currency market may hamper the which had been in place since 2004, Georgia accounted for over 90% of the development of Georgias economy, which from power.
Groups total consolidated revenue in 2012 could have a material adverse effect on the and 2013.
Therefore, macroeconomic businesses of the Groups corporate Continuing economic and political reform factors relating to Georgia, such as GDP, customers and, in turn, a material adverse are important to the future of Georgia.
The inflation, interest rates and currency effect on the Groups business, its financial previous government and current government exchange rates, as well as unemployment condition and the results of its operations.
have both been committed to reform and and personal income have a material impact to business and investor-friendly policies, on loan losses, margins and customer In addition, there has historically been but there can be no assurance that such demand for the Groups products and significant instability in the Lari to US Dollar business and investor-friendly policies will services, which materially affects the Groups exchange rate, although during 2012 and continue or will not be reversed.
While the business, financial condition and results of 2013 the exchange rate has remained recent elections and transitions of power operations.
Market turmoil and economic relatively stable but with a gradual further have been peaceful, there can be no deterioration in Georgia can also have a depreciation against the US dollar through assurance that future elections will also material adverse effect on the liquidity, to the end of 2013.
The ability of the be peaceful.
The next elections to be held businesses or financial condition of the Government of Georgia and the NBG to in Georgia are municipal elections scheduled Groups borrowers, which in turn can increase limit any volatility of the Lari will depend on for May and June 2014.
There can be no the Groups non-performing loans, impair its a number of political and economic factors, assurance that the recent constitutional loans and other financial assets and result in including the NBGs and the Governments reforms will be stable, that the government decreased demand for the Groups products.
ability to control inflation, the availability of will pursue the necessary reforms or that In such an environment, consumer spending foreign currency reserves and foreign direct its policies will not change.
Changes in can decline and the value of assets used as investment and other currency inflows.
Any government policy and any political collateral for the Groups secured loans, failure to do so, or a major depreciation instability may have a material adverse including real estate, could also decrease or further devaluation of the Lari, could effect on the Groups business, its financial significantly, which could reduce recoveries adversely affect Georgias economy.
condition and the results of its operations.
Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the The Group is subject to the effects of high Risks Relating to the Groups Groups business, its financial condition and and sustained inflation within the Georgian Lending Activities the results of its operations.
In the period between 2010 and The Group may not be able to maintain 2013, according to Geostat, Georgia the quality of its loan portfolio There can be no assurance that the experienced periods of both inflation and The quality of the Groups loan portfolio is Georgian economy will return to higher deflation and the rate of inflation also affected by changes in the creditworthiness growth rates or that it will not experience fluctuated greatly.
High and sustained of its customers, the ability of customers to a further deterioration.
repay their loans on time, the statutory priority inflation could lead to market instability, a financial crisis, a reduction in consumer of claims against customers and the Groups Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, ability to enforce its security interests on purchasing power and erosion of consumer the Georgian economy became highly confidence.
On the other hand, deflation, customers collateral should such customers dollarised.
The dollarisation rate of the fail to repay their loans and whether the whilst increasing the purchasing power banking system has fluctuated significantly of the Lari, could adversely affect foreign value of such collateral is sufficient to cover in recent years.
Although the NBG has the full amounts of those loans.
In addition, investment and the Groups profitability adopted measures to support the in its lending activities.
Any of these the quality of the Groups loan portfolio may development of Georgias domestic money deteriorate for various other reasons, including events could lead to a deterioration in the markets, the dollarisation rate could adversely performance of Georgias economy and factors beyond the Groups control such as impact the effectiveness of the implementation any negative developments in Georgias negatively affect the businesses of the of the NBGs monetary and exchange rate Groups customers, which could, in turn, economy resulting in the financial distress or policies, which could negatively impact the bankruptcy of the Groups customers or the have a material adverse effect on the purchasing power of the Lari, restrict future Groups business, its financial condition unavailability or limited availability of credit GDP growth in Georgia and depress information concerning certain customers, and the results of its operations Georgias investment climate.
Any of these and other factors, such as a failure of the effects could have a material adverse effect Groups risk management procedures or Political and governmental instability on the Georgian economy and, therefore, in Georgia could have a material a rapid expansion of the Groups loan a material adverse effect on the Groups portfolio.
The Groups impairment charges adverse effect on the local economy business, its financial condition and the and the Group and, in turn, its cost of credit risk, could results of its operations.
increase if a single large borrower defaults Since the restoration of its independence in 1991, Georgia has undergone a major or a material concentration of smaller Instability or a lack of growth in the borrowers default.
There can be no political transformation from a constituent domestic currency market may have republic in a federal socialist state to an assurance that in the longer term the Groups an adverse effect on the development loan portfolio quality will not deteriorate and independent sovereign democracy.
Georgia of Georgias economy and, in turn, has had major recent changes in government that the Groups loan impairment charges have an adverse effect on the Group will not increase, which could, in turn, have and in its constitution and laws, the latter Although the Lari is a fully convertible in connection with a transition from a a material adverse effect on the Groups currency, there is generally no market business, its financial condition and the presidential to a parliamentary system of outside Georgia for the exchange of Lari.
The current President who results of its operations.
A market exists within Georgia for the Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REVIEW: RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The Groups loan portfolio for its Corporate competition for loans and deposits, increase in impairment provisions for loans Banking segment is somewhat concentrated, customer demand and costs of funding.
extended to the Groups customers, which with the Groups top 10 corporate These key factors are influenced by factors may have a material adverse effect on the borrowers accounting for 16.8% of beyond the Groups control, such as global Groups business, its financial condition and the Groups total loan portfolio as of and local economic conditions, the the results of its operations.
31 December 2013 gross of allowance for resources of the Groups competitors and impairment.
To the extent that the Group consumer confidence.
Interest rates are In addition, the Groups operations are grows its loan portfolio by entering into highly sensitive to many factors beyond the affected by the Lari to Belarusian Rouble additional arrangements with existing Groups control, including monetary policies exchange rates as these affect the value of counterparties, it will increase its credit and domestic and international economic the Groups equity interests in Joint Stock and general counterparty risk with respect and political conditions and the reserve Company Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB, to those counterparties.
its Belarusian subsidiary, on a consolidated basis and a depreciation of the Belarusian Collateral values may decline A mismatch of interest-earning assets and Rouble against the Lari has the effect of The Group held collateral against 88.6% interest-bearing liabilities in any given period reducing BNBs contribution to the Groups of the Groups total gross loans as of resulting from changes in any of the key consolidated capital.
The main forms of factors outlined above, or otherwise, could affect its ability to comply with contractual collateral taken by the Group in its corporate reduce the Groups NIM.
Any reduction in covenants based on the Basel I Total lending are charges over real estate, the Groups NIM caused by changes in the Capital Adequacy ratio, calculated on equipment, inventory and trade receivables.
key factors outlined above, or otherwise, a consolidated basis.
The main form of collateral taken by the could have a material adverse effect on the Group in its retail lending is a mortgage Groups net interest income, which could, The Groups risk management methods over residential property.
Downturns in in turn, have a material adverse effect on may prove ineffective at mitigating the residential and commercial real estate the Groups business, its financial condition credit risk markets or a general deterioration of and the results of its operations.
Losses relating to credit risk may arise if the economic conditions in the industries in risk management policies, procedures and which the Groups customers operate may In addition, any increase in interest rates assessment methods implemented by the result in illiquidity and a decline in the value may result in an increase in the periodic Group to mitigate credit risk and to protect of the collateral securing the Groups loans, instalment amounts paid by the Groups against credit losses prove less effective including a decline to levels below the customers.
Such an increase may result than expected.
The Group employs outstanding principal balance of those loans.
in difficulties related to the repayment of qualitative tools and metrics for managing the assumed loans, which, in turn, may lead risk that are based on observed historical In addition, declining or unstable prices of to a decrease in the quality of the Groups market behaviour.
These tools and metrics collateral in Georgia may make it difficult for loan portfolio and an increase in impairment may fail to predict future risk exposures, the Group to accurately value collateral held provisions for loans extended to the Groups especially in periods of increased volatility by it.
If the fair value of the collateral held by customers, which could, in turn, have a or falling valuations, or in periods in which the Group declines significantly in the future, material adverse effect on the Groups there is a rapid expansion of the Groups the Group could be required to record business, its financial condition and the loan portfolio.
In addition, even though the additional provisions and could experience results of its operations.
Group requires regular financial disclosure lower than expected recovery levels on by its corporate customers, customer collateralised loans.
If any of these risks Currency fluctuations have affected, financial statements may not always present materialise, they could have a material and may continue to affect, the Group a complete and accurate picture of each adverse effect on the Groups business, A substantial portion of the total assets of customers financial condition.
Furthermore, its financial condition and the results of the Group, especially its loan portfolio, is some of the Groups corporate customers its operations.
denominated in foreign currencies, primarily may not have extensive or externally verified US dollars, while the majority of customers credit histories, and their accounts may not Significant changes or volatility in the who have their loans denominated in foreign be audited by a reputable external auditor.
Groups Net Interest Margin could have currencies earn their income in Lari.
Those Therefore, notwithstanding the Groups an adverse effect on the Group customers are usually not protected against credit risk evaluation procedures, the Group The Group derives the majority of its total the fluctuations of the exchange rates of the may be unable to evaluate effectively the net income from net interest income.
As a Lari against the currency of the loan.
current financial condition of each result, the Groups operations are affected Consequently, any depreciation of the Lari prospective corporate borrower and to by fluctuations in its NIM.
In particular, the against the currency of the loan may result evaluate effectively the ability of such Groups banking operations depend on the in difficulties in repayment of the loans, corporate borrower to repay its loans management of key factors that affect the which, in turn, may lead to a decrease in the when due.
Similarly, the financial condition Groups NIM, such as interest rates, quality of the Groups loan portfolio and an of some private individuals transacting Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 22 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 business with the Group is difficult to In addition, the Group is exposed to the 25 million for this purpose since May 2011 assess and predict, as some retail risk of unexpected, rapid withdrawal of and had received a temporary waiver in borrowers have no or very limited credit deposits by its customers in large volumes.
Accordingly, the risk management Circumstances in which customers are BNB was in compliance with the minimum systems employed by the Group may prove more likely to rapidly withdraw deposits capital requirements set by NBRB however, insufficient in measuring and managing risks in large volumes include, among others, there is no assurance that BNB will be and this may have a material adverse effect a severe economic downturn, a loss in able to comply with the minimum level of on the Groups business, its financial consumer confidence, an erosion of trust regulatory capital in the future that it will condition and the results of its operations.
in financial institutions or a period of social, be able to obtain a further waiver from economic or political instability.
Additional Risks Arising Principally from substantial portion of the Groups customers the Groups Banking Activities rapidly or unexpectedly withdraw their The Groups ability to comply with applicable The Group faces liquidity risk demand or term deposits or do not roll capital adequacy and regulatory ratios The Group becomes exposed to liquidity risk over their term deposits upon maturity, could be affected by a number of factors, when the maturities of its assets and liabilities this could have a material adverse effect some of which are beyond the Groups do not coincide.
Liquidity risk is inherent in on the Groups business, its financial control, including: banking operations and can be heightened by condition and the results of its operations.
the Groups ability to raise capital: a number of factors, including an overreliance losses resulting from a deterioration on, or an inability to access, a particular The Group is subject to certain in the Groups asset quality, a reduction source of funding, changes in credit ratings regulatory capital requirements in income levels, an increase in expenses or market-wide phenomena such as financial The Bank, in common with other regulated or a combination of some or all of market instability and natural disasters.
financial institutions in Georgia, is required these factors: Substantially all of the Groups amounts due to comply with certain capital adequacy and a decline in the values of the Groups to customers have maturities of one year or regulatory ratios set by the NBG.
The Bank securities portfolio: less or are payable on demand.
The Group believes it is currently in compliance with all changes in accounting rules or in the seeks to manage its liquidity risk by, among such ratios.
guidelines regarding the calculation other things, maintaining a diverse funding of the capital adequacy ratios: and base comprising short-term sources of In December 2010, the Basel Committee increases in minimum capital adequacy funding including retail and corporate on Banking Supervision published the ratios imposed by the NBG.
customer deposits, inter-bank borrowing Basel III rules setting out certain changes and borrowing from the NBG and longerto capital requirements applicable to banks.
Failure to maintain the minimum capital term sources of funding including borrowing Implementation of the new combined adequacy and other regulatory ratios may from international credit institutions, sales regulation based on Basel II and Basel III have a material adverse effect on the Group.
and purchases of securities and long-term will occur at a national level in 2014.
The Moreover, a breach of regulatory requirements debt securities.
NBG is currently in the process of relating to the minimum capital adequacy implementing Basel II and Basel III in and other regulatory ratios may result in The Groups current liquidity may be Georgia.
On 28 October 2013, the NBG entities in the Group being subject to affected by unfavourable financial market published a regulation for capital adequacy regulatory or administrative sanctions, conditions.
If assets held by the Group in based on Basel II and Basel III, which makes which could impact the Groups ability order to provide liquidity become illiquid or adjustments to certain Basel II and Basel III to conduct its business, and result in an their value drops substantially, the Group rules, including those relating to foreign increase in the operating costs of the Group may therefore be required, or may choose currency additional risk weights, specific and loss of reputation, all of which could, in to rely on other sources of funding to measurements and risk estimates.
As turn, have a material adverse effect on the finance its operations and expected future notified by the NBG, the Group expects Groups business, its financial condition and growth.
However, there is only a limited the implementation of BII and BIII on the results of its operations.
amount of funding available on the Georgian 30 June 2014 for Pillar I and 30 September inter-bank market and the Groups recourse 2014 for Pillar II.
to other funding sources may pose additional risks, including the possibility that other In addition, BNB is licensed by the NBRB funding sources may be more expensive and is required to comply with certain and less flexible.
In addition, the Groups capital adequacy ratios and minimum ability to access such external funding share capital requirements set by the sources is directly connected with the level NBRB.
BNB has not been in compliance of credit lines available to the Group, and with the minimum level of regulatory capital this, in turn, is dependent on the Groups required by NBRB in order to hold deposits financial and credit condition, as well as from individuals set at the equivalent of general market liquidity.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REVIEW: RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The Groups businesses are subject to of operations.
If any of these risks clerical or record-keeping errors, business substantial regulation and oversight materialise, they could have a material disruptions caused by various factors such and future changes in regulation, fiscal adverse effect on the Groups business, as software or hardware failures and or other policies are unpredictable its financial condition and the results of communication breakdowns, failure The Bank is required to comply with its operations to execute outsourced activities, criminal Georgian banking regulations.
In addition activities including credit fraud and to mandatory capital adequacy ratios, the In addition, the current Georgian Dream electronic crimes, unauthorised NBG is authorised to set lending limits and coalition government is in the process of transactions, robbery and damage other economic ratios in Georgia, with preparing and finalising a range of new to assets.
which the Bank is required to comply.
initiatives, including anti-monopoly Under Georgian banking regulations, the regulations and changes to the regulation The Groups operations are highly Bank is required to, among other things, of the Healthcare sector.
Certain of the dependent on its information technology comply with minimum reserve requirements Governments proposals, including the systems.
The proper functioning of the and mandatory financial ratios and file decision adopted in the beginning of 2014 Groups payment systems, financial periodic reports.
In addition to its banking to establish a state insurance company to controls, risk management, credit analysis operations, the Group also provides other provide a basic insurance package for every and reporting, accounting, customer service regulated financial services and offers Georgian citizen, could have a material and other information technology systems, financing products, including brokerage and impact on the business, financial condition as well as the communication networks pension fund operations, insurance and and results of operations of the Group in within the Group, are critical to the Groups healthcare products through its Insurance general, and on the Groups insurance and operations.
Any critical system failure, and Healthcare subsidiary and services healthcare subsidiary Aldagi in particular.
prolonged loss of service availability or such as asset management, that are material breach of data security particularly subject to governmental supervision.
The corporate income tax rate in Georgia is involving confidential customer data could In addition, if regulations change or if the 15%.
Under the Economic Liberty Act which cause serious damage to the Groups ability Group acquires or expands its businesses, entered into force on 1 January 2014, to service its customers, could result in the Group may become subject to subject to certain exceptions, referenda are significant compensation costs, could additional rules and regulations at a required to be held before raising taxes and breach regulations under which the Group national, international or supranational level, tax rates.
However, no assurance can be operates and could cause long-term which may impact the Groups operations.
given that there will not be a future increase damage to the Groups business and Additionally, the business, financial in corporate income tax in Georgia.
For example, failure to protect the condition and results of operations of the significant increase in the rate of corporate Groups operations from cyber attacks Groups activities in Belarus are affected income tax in Georgia or other changes in could result in the loss of customer data or by legal regulations, instructions and taxation policy could have a material other sensitive information.
The threats are recommendations, including those issued adverse effect on the Groups business, increasingly sophisticated and there can be by the NBRB and the NBG.
its financial condition and the results of its no assurance that the Group will be able to operations.
The Group may be unable to enforce, or may experience difficulties and delays in Future changes in regulation, fiscal or other Any failure of the Groups risk management enforcing, the security which has been policies are unpredictable and there is often system to detect unidentified or granted to it by its customers.
For example, a delay between the announcement of a unanticipated risks, or to correct operational the Parliament has in the recent past change and the publication of detailed risks, or any failure of third parties established, or considered establishing, rules relating to such change.
There can adequately to perform outsourced activities moratoriums or restrictions on enforcement be no assurance that the current regulatory could have a material adverse effect on the measures over certain properties that are environment in which the Group operates Groups business, its financial condition and secured as collateral in financing transactions.
will not be subject to significant change in the results of its operations.
Any of these actions, and any future changes the future, including as a result of a change to laws or regulations, may restrict the ability Risks Affecting the Groups in government in Georgia or Belarus, or that of the Group to enforce security granted by the Group will be able to comply with any or Non-Banking Activities its customers and may otherwise impair the The Groups Insurance and Healthcare all resulting regulations.
value of such collateral, which in turn may subsidiary, Aldagi, is subject to the result in illiquidity of the collateral, increase risks inherent in the insurance industry The Group is subject to operational of credit risk and emergence of bad loans risk inherent in its business activities, Aldagi Insurance operates in the property and casualty, life and health insurance and may have negative effects on the which includes the risk that the Group economy and the Georgian banking sector, is highly dependent on its information industry.
In the ordinary course of business, Aldagi seeks to reduce losses that may arise including the Bank.
Furthermore, such technology systems and is subject to legislative changes may decrease the the risk of cyber attacks from catastrophes or other events through reinsurance.
Under such reinsurance inflow of foreign investments in Georgia, The Group is subject to the risk of incurring which could have a negative effect on losses or undue costs due to the inadequacies arrangements, reinsurers assume a portion of the losses and related expenses, however, the economy, which could, in turn, have or failure of internal processes or systems a material adverse effect on the Groups or human error, or from errors made during Aldagi remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured.
Consequently, ceded business, financial condition and results the execution or performance of operations, Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 24 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate The Groups insurance subsidiary, Aldagi, Other Risks Affecting the Group Aldagis obligation to pay under its insurance currently provides Government-funded The Group may not successfully policy for losses insured, which could cause insurance coverage to certain groups, implement its strategy a material increase in Aldagis liabilities and a such as the socially vulnerable, pensioners, The Group aims to achieve long-term reduction in its profitability.
Moreover, Aldagi students and children that fall under the sustainable growth and profitability through is subject to its reinsurers credit risk and Healthcare Programme.
The establishment of a secure, modern and universal banking solvency and their willingness to make a state insurance company to provide basic model, as well as to maintain and enhance payments under the terms of reinsurance insurance coverage for all citizens of Georgia its leading market position in Georgia.
arrangements with respect to its ability to will result in the elimination in the GovernmentIn addition, the Groups strategy is to recover amounts due from them.
funded insurance policies that Aldagi provides diversify its business through the addition thereby reducing Aldagis revenues.
of businesses and services that have strong The failure of any reinsurer to meet synergies with its banking operations.
its financial obligations to Aldagi could The Groups real estate subsidiary, m2 The Group intends to exit from its other negatively impact Aldagis financial Real Estate, is subject to the risks of non-core operations, including through condition and results of operations.
In developing and selling real estate the sale of Joint Stock Company Liberty addition, the availability, amount and The Groups real estate subsidiary m2 Real Consumer Liberty Consumer, its cost of reinsurance depend on general Estate, is primarily engaged in developing remaining equity interest in BG Bank market conditions which may fluctuate.
affordable residential properties for sale and and, in due course, its interest in BNB.
Reinsurance may not be available to Aldagi rent.
Real estate property investments are In addition, from time to time, the Group at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, subject to varying degrees of risk, which may seek to pursue selective acquisitions and any decrease in the amount of Aldagis affect the level of income from the value in Georgia and abroad.
reinsurance will increase its risk of loss.
of, properties including: changes in the Georgian economic There can be no assurance that the Group Aldagi establishes reserves for reported climate: will be able to achieve its major strategic claims, incurred but not reported claims local conditions such as a surplus objectives, including in respect of its and unearned premiums.
Reserves do not of similar properties or a reduction synergistic businesses, such as Insurance represent an exact calculation of liability, in demand for the property: and Healthcare, which may be affected by but instead represent estimates of what the the attractiveness of the property market conditions, potential legal and ultimate settlement and administration of to tenants and purchasers: regulatory impediments and other factors, claims will cost based on an assessment occupancy rates and the ability or that it will be able to exit from its non-core of facts and circumstances then known, to collect rent from tenants: operations at a satisfactory price, or at all.
review of historical settlement patterns, laws and governmental regulations, See Description of Business Synergistic estimates of trends in claims severity, including environmental regulation, tax Businesses Insurance and Healthcare.
frequency of claims, legal theories of laws and insurance regulations: and Any failure by the Group to achieve its liability and other factors.
There can be acts of nature, such as earthquakes, strategic objectives could have a material no assurance that actual claims will not floods and other extreme weather adverse impact on the Groups reputation, materially exceed its claims reserves and events that may damage property.
which could, in turn, have a material adverse have a material adverse effect on the effect on the Groups business, its financial Groups business, its financial condition and In addition, m2 Real Estates projects are condition and the results of its operations.
the results of its operations.
subject to the general risks associated with construction and development, including: The Group faces competition The Government of Georgia undertook a cost overruns due to increased material, In recent years the Georgian banking sector range of new initiatives relating to the labour or other costs, which could make has become increasingly competitive.
regulation of healthcare in Georgia.
In 2013, completion of the project unprofitable: According to the NBG, at 31 December under the state-funded Universal Health Care the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, 2013, there were 21 commercial banks Programme the Healthcare Programme, required zoning, land use, building, operating in Georgia, 20 of which are the Government has begun to provide a occupancy, and other Governmental foreign controlled.
Additionally, in Belarus, basic insurance package for every Georgian permits and authorisations, which could the Group competes with a wide range of citizen not already covered by any insurance, result in increased costs and delays in local including state-owned and including certain vulnerable groups such as completion or could require m2 Real Estate international banks.
pensioners, students and children already to abandon a project entirely: and covered by the Healthcare Programme in m2 Real Estate may be unable to place since 2007.
The coverage of the groups complete construction and leasing described above under the Healthcare of a property on schedule.
Programme is currently provided through private insurance companies.
In 2014, the Any of these factors could have a material Government announced its intention to adverse effect on the financial condition and establish a state insurance company to operating results of m2 Real Estate, which provide basic universal healthcare coverage may have a material adverse effect on the for Georgian citizens rather than through Groups business, its financial condition and private insurance companies, under the the results of its operations.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REVIEW: RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Increased competition may have a negative qualified and experienced banking and subject to risks relating to these operations, impact on the Groups ability to sustain its management personnel is vital to the including certain political and economic margin and fee levels, particularly if the Groups business.
There can be no risks, compliance risks and foreign currency Groups competitors possess greater assurance that the Group will be able to exchange risks, as well as the risk of failure financial resources especially in the case successfully recruit and retain the necessary to market adequately to potential customers of banks with foreign capital investment or qualified personnel.
The loss or diminution in other countries Any failure to manage banks which are branches or subsidiaries in the services of members of the Groups such risks may cause the Group to incur of non-resident foreign banks, by way of senior management team or an inability to increased liabilities, which could, in turn, access to funding from foreign capital or recruit, train or retain necessary personnel have a material adverse effect on the their parent entity, access to lower-cost could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, its financial condition funding and a broader offering of products Groups business, its financial condition and and the results of its operations.
than the Group, or if the Groups the results of its operations.
competitors merged to significantly enhance If the Group fails to comply with any their financial resources, access to funding The Groups insurance policies may applicable laws and regulations and product offerings.
In addition, not cover, or fully cover, certain types relating to money laundering, terrorist increasing competition could lead to of losses financing or tax compliance, this could significant pressure on the Groups market The Group generally maintains insurance have an adverse effect on the Group share.
Increasing competition in the banking policies covering its assets, operations and The Group is subject to Georgian, foreign industry has already led to and may, in the certain employees in line with general and international laws, regulations and future, continue to lead to increased pricing business practices in Georgia.
The Group practices relating to, among other things, pressures on the Groups products and seeks to insure against a range of risks, money laundering, terrorist financing and services, which could have a material including fire, lightning, flooding, theft, tax compliance.
The Group has implemented adverse effect on the Groups business, vandalism and third-party liability.
The comprehensive anti-money laundering, knowfinancial condition and results of operations.
Group also maintains Bankers Blanket your-customer, know your corresponding Bond and Directors and officers liability bank and know your employee policies There can be no assurance that the current insurance.
However, there can be no and is in the process of implementing such regulatory environment in which the Group assurance that all types of potential losses policies throughout its financial subsidiaries operates with respect to competition and are insured or that policy limits would be including insurance and brokerage anti-monopoly matters will not be subject adequate to cover them.
However, if the Group fails to to significant change in the future.
Antior a loss in excess of insured limits could comply with any such laws and regulations, monopoly matters with respect to the adversely affect the Groups existing this could have a material adverse effect on banking services sector are currently operations and could, in turn, have a the Groups business, its financial condition handled by the NBG.
However, the material adverse effect on the Group's and the results of its operations.
In addition, Georgian Government may, in the future, business, its financial condition and the involvement in such activities may carry seek to legislate or regulate competition results of its operations.
criminal or regulatory fines and sanctions.
and anti-monopoly matters in the Georgian banking industry through a Governmental The Group faces certain risks The Group is also subject to the US Foreign agency other than the NBG.
The associated with conducting Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA.
introduction of any anti-monopoly international operations As foreign financial institutions for purposes restrictions may have an effect on the The Groups financial results have in the of FATCA, from 1 July 2014, entities within growth rates of the Group, restrict the past been adversely affected by writethe Group will be subject to a 30%.
US Groups ability to make future acquisitions downs of goodwill associated with its withholding tax on certain types of income or lead to the Group being compulsorily investments in Joint Stock Company BG derived from US sources including interest required to sell some of its assets or exit Bank BG Bank and BNB, as well as the and dividends unless the members of or reduce business areas.
weak economic environment in Ukraine and the Group become participating foreign a material devaluation of the Belarusian financial institutions or are otherwise The Group depends on its key Rouble.
As part of its revised strategy to deemed compliant with FATCA.
While the management and qualified personnel concentrate on the Georgian market the Group believes that its preparations and The Groups current senior management Group disposed of an 80% equity interest in options are sufficient to ensure compliance team includes a number of persons that the BG Bank in February 2011.
The Group will by the Group with FATCA, if entities within Bank Management Board believes contribute continue to seek to exit from its international the Group suffer FATCA withholding on significant experience and expertise in the operations including its remaining equity payments to them, this may have a material banking and other industries in which the interest in BG Bank and, in due course, adverse effect on the Groups business and, Group operates.
The Groups ability to BNB at an appropriate time.
While it holds in turn, on its financial condition and the continue to retain, motivate and attract these assets, the Group will continue to be results of its operations.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 26 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Group or its customers or the introduction Other Risks Relating to Liquid assets to total liabilities of a bank levy.
Any such changes in the tax Emerging Markets 2012: 35.3% The uncertainties of the judicial laws or Governmental tax policies may have a material adverse effect on the Group.
system in Georgia, or any arbitrary or discriminatory state action taken There are additional risks associated in Georgia in the future, may have a 36.4% material adverse effect on the local with investing in emerging markets such as Georgia economy, which could and in turn, have an adverse effect on the Group Financial or political instability in emerging markets also tends to have a material Georgia is still developing an adequate legal framework required for the proper functioning adverse effect on the capital markets of Liquid assets to total assets emerging economies and the wider of a market economy.
The recent nature of 2012: 28.7% much of Georgian legislation and the rapid economy as investors generally move their money to more developed markets, which evolution of the Georgian legal system place the quality and the enforceability of laws in may be considered to be more stable.
These risks may be compounded by doubt and result in ambiguities and inconsistencies in their application.
In incomplete, unreliable, unavailable or 29.5% untimely economic and statistical data addition, the court system in Georgia is understaffed and its judges are generally on Georgia.
less experienced in the area of business and corporate law than is the case in certain other countries.
The uncertainties of the Georgian judicial system could have a negative effect on the Georgian economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and operational results.
In addition, to varying degrees, the same uncertainties of the judicial system in Georgia as discussed above apply to Belarus.
Uncertainties in the tax system in Georgia and Belarus may result in the Group facing tax adjustments or fines in the future and there may be changes in current tax laws and policies.
In Georgia and Belarus, tax laws have not been in force for significant periods of time, are often unclear in their implementation and application and are subject to frequent changes, which results in complexities for the Group.
Differing opinions regarding the interpretation of various provisions exist both among and within Governmental ministries and organisations, including the tax authorities, creating uncertainties, inconsistencies and areas of conflict.
There can be no assurance that the current tax laws or Government tax policies will not be subject to change in the future, including any changes introduced as a result of a change of government.
Such changes Liquid assets include: cash and cash equivalents, could include the introduction of new taxes, amounts due from credit institutions, investment securities and trading securities.
an increase in the tax rates applicable to the Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 27 STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY AT THE FOREFRONT OF TECHNOLOGY 54,105 Internet banking active users 14,232 Mobile banking active users Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 28 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial statements 104-182 Additional information 183-188 IN THIS PERFORMANCE SECTION 30 Business Review Overview of Financial Results 36 Segment Discussion 48 Risk Management 58 Sustainability Review Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 29
