The main tools of risk management of the THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION MAY NOT STRATEGIC REPORT Bank are the establishment of specific CONTAIN ALL THE INFORMATION THAT PERFORMANCE: procedures with respect to operations IS IMPORTANT TO READERS OF THIS involving certain types of risks as well as RISK MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REPORT.
FOR ADDITIONAL the placement of various authority limits on INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ROLE certain operations.
The Bank seeks to manage OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE SEE PAGES 76 its overall risk exposure by continuously TO 79 OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT.
improving its risk management policies and systems.
The Banks risk management IN ADDITION, NOTE 27 OF THE procedures are designed to identify and ACCOMPANYING CONSOLIDATED analyse relevant risks to its business, prescribe FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PROVIDES appropriate limits to various risk areas and ADDITIONAL DETAIL REGARDING THE to monitor the level and incidence of such RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES.
risks on an ongoing basis.
The Bank regularly reviews its risk analysis processes in order Overview to institute improvements which are required Risk is inherent in the Groups activities but in light of the development and growth of it is managed through a process of ongoing its business and the varying nature of the identification, measurement and monitoring, risks which the Bank faces in its day-tosubject to risk limits and other controls.
This process of risk management is critical to the Groups continuing profitability.
The Banks risk management system is based on the principle of continually The BGH Board has ultimate responsibility assessing risk throughout the life of any for the Groups risk appetite as well as operation and includes such stages as: reviewing the effectiveness of the systems risk identification: and processes of risk management.
quality and quantity assessment of a particular risk: The Risk Management Policy adopted determination of an acceptable risk level: by BGH sets out the manner in which the placement of limits and creation of Group identifies, assesses, manages and reserves: monitors the risk programme for BGH, use of collateral: the Bank and its subsidiaries.
The main ongoing monitoring and control allowing objectives of the Risk Management efficient adjustments in case of any Policy are to: negative changes in the conditions on Formulate the Groups risk appetite: which the preliminary risk assessment Identify and define the nature and was made: and extent of the Groups significant risks: analysis of efficiency of the risk Set out the Groups risk management management system.
and risk reporting procedures: Clearly define the Groups risk Risk Management Structure management bodies and the roles The Bank conducts its risk management and responsibilities of each of the activities within the framework of its unified BGH Board, Supervisory Board of the MANAGING RISK risk management system.
Bank, Bank committees as well as the business managers that implement Risk Management bodies EFFECTIVELY the policy and procedures: and Responsibility for the conduct of the Banks Establish the Groups risk management risk management activities within the Group and risk reporting procedures in order lies at all levels of the Group from the BGH For more information on our to ensure that risks are properly Board of Directors to business managers risk management policy, visit identified and monitored and mitigated and risk managers.
co. uk corporatewhere possible as well as properly responsibilities ensures that risk return governance reported, both internally and externally.
decisions are taken at the appropriate level.
The Role of the Bank in the Overall As mentioned above, ultimate responsibility Risk Management Structure for the Groups risk management lies with Management of risk is fundamental to the the BGH Board.
The BGH Board is banking business and is an essential element responsible for setting the Groups risk of the Groups operations.
The main risks philosophy and appetite and approving the inherent in the Banks operations are credit overall risk management strategy and policy risk, liquidity risk, market risk including of the Group.
It is responsible for maintaining currency and foreign exchange rate risks, a sound system of internal control that operational risk and legal risk.
The following supports the achievement of its goals and is a description of the Banks risk management objectives and overseeing the establishment, policies and procedures in respect of those implementation and review of the Groups risks.
Business risks such as changes in the risk management systems.
In order to environment, technology and industry are implement the Groups Risk Management monitored through the Groups strategic Policy effectively, the BGH Board has planning process.
delegated responsibility for risk management Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 48 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 to the BGH Audit Committee, which supervises ALCO and the Banks Legal Department.
At least once a year, the BGH Board the Groups financial reporting, the performance On 1 January 2014, BGH formed a Risk conducts a review of the effectiveness of both the internal audit function and the Committee at the BGH and Bank Board of the Groups risk management and external auditor and the management of levels.
The BGH Risk Committee, which internal control systems, including the Risk the Groups systems of internal control is comprised of four Independent NonManagement Policy.
The review covers all and compliance activities.
The principal risk Executive Directors, is now responsible material controls, including financial, management bodies of the Bank are for advising the BGH Board on the operational and compliance controls.
Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance Risk Committee, Management Board, and current and future strategy: assessing The risk management bodies and reporting Internal Audit and Compliance departments, and approving the methodology used by lines of the Bank are detailed directly below.
Treasury, the Credit Committees, the Asset BGH to assess risk: and overseeing the and Liability Management Committee the current risk exposures of the Group.
Risk Management bodies of Bank of Georgia Risk Committee Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Asset and Liabilities Credit Management Board Management Committees Committee ALCO Quantitative Risk Credit Risk Operational Risk Anti-Money Treasury Legal Management and Management Management Laundering Risk Analytics Bank of Georgia is the principal subsidiary of Bank of Georgia Holdings.
The Supervisory Board Risk Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the Banks overall risk the Risk Bank Committee has the overall has overall responsibility for implementing management approach and for approving responsibility for advising the Supervisory principles, frameworks, policies and limits risk strategies and principles and is ultimately Board on the Banks overall risk appetite, in accordance with the Banks risk responsible for identifying and controlling tolerance and strategy, taking into account management strategy related to the risks.
The principal risks the Bank faces are the current and prospective macroeconomic general control environment, manual credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk including and financial environment.
The Risk and application controls, risks of intentional currency and foreign exchange rate risks, Committee oversees the risk exposures or unintentional misstatements, risk of operational risk and legal risk.
The Supervisory of the Bank and advises the Supervisory fraud or misappropriation of assets, Board approves the Banks Credit Policies, Board on risk strategy.
The Risk Committee information security, anti-money laundering, which outline credit risk control and monitoring reviews regularly and approves the information technology risks, etc.
The Bank procedures and the Banks credit risk parameters used by the Bank to assess risk Audit Committee facilitates the activities management systems and approves certain and the adopted methodology and reviews of the internal audit and external auditors decisions which fall outside the scope of the the Banks capability to identify and manage of the Bank.
The Bank Internal Audit respective authorities of the Credit Committees new risk types.
The Risk Committee also Department also reviews AML policies and including approvals of single borrower lending sets a standard for the accurate and timely procedures and presents audit reports on exposure exceeding US$25.0 million.
The monitoring of large exposures and certain AML to the Bank Audit Committee on a Bank Management Board presents a risk types of critical importance, including, quarterly basis.
The Bank Audit Committee comprehensive credit risk report and market but not limited to credit risk, market risk is elected and directly monitored by the risk report to the Bank Supervisory Board for and operational risk.
their review on a quarterly basis.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 49 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Management Board.
The Management of the Banks subsidiaries, apart from BNB Banks credit risks in respect of corporate Board has overall responsibility for the which has its own internal audit department loans.
Each Credit Committee approves Banks asset, liability and risk management that report to the Banks Internal Audit individual loan transactions and establishes activities, policies and procedures.
In order Department and BNBs audit committee.
credit risk categories and provisioning rates to effectively implement the risk management on such transactions.
The Deputy Chief system, the Management Board delegates As part of its auditing procedures, the Bank Executive Officer Chief Risk Officer and the individual risk management functions to each Internal Audit Department is responsible for Credit Risk Management Department of the various decision-making and execution the following: review the credit quality of the loan portfolio, bodies within the Bank.
identifying and assessing potential set provisioning rates and, in consultation risks regarding the Banks operations: with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO Internal Audit Department.
The Internal reviewing the adequacy of the existing Finance, adopt decisions on the write-off, Audit Department is responsible for the controls established in order to ensure on a monthly basis, of corporate loans past annual audit of the Banks risk management, compliance with the Banks policies, due for more than 150 days.
Each Credit internal control and corporate governance plans, procedures and business Committee is comprised of tiers of processes.
It examines both the adequacy objectives: subcommittees.
The Credit Committee of and the Banks compliance with those developing internal auditing standards for retail loans comprises four tiers of procedures.
The Bank Internal Audit and methodologies: subcommittee.
For risk management Department discusses the results of all carrying out planned and random purposes, investment management loans assessments with management, and inspections of the Banks branches are classified as retail loans.
The Credit reports its findings and recommendations and subdivisions and auditing its Committee for corporate loans comprises to the Bank Audit Committee and the subsidiaries: three tiers of subcommittee.
Each first tier Supervisory Board.
analysing the quality of the Banks subcommittee is chaired by the Risk Manager products: of the relevant Credit Risk Management The principal function of the Bank Internal participating in external audits and Department and approves loans resulting Audit Department is to reduce the levels of inspections by the NBG: in the Banks overall exposure of up to operational and other risks, audit the Banks making recommendations to US$500,000 for corporate loans and up internal control systems, and detect any management on the basis of external to US$150,000 for retail loans.
Each second infringements or errors on the part of the and internal audits to improve internal tier subcommittee is chaired by the Head Banks departments and divisions.
The controls: of the Credit Risk Analysis Unit for corporate Bank Internal Audit Department provides monitoring the compliance of the and by Deputy Head of Credit Risk reasonable assurance that the Banks Bank with the NBG regulations: and Management Department for retail loans policies conform to current legislation and monitoring the implementation of and approves loans resulting in the Banks regulation and professional norms and auditors recommendations.
overall exposure in the range of ethics and it is responsible for monitoring US$500,000 to US$1.5 million for corporate and assessing the adequacy of compliance The Banks internal audit department loans and US$150,000 to US$300,000 for with internal procedures at all levels of the applies a risk-based audit approach to retail loans.
The third tier subcommittee for Banks management.
This Department assess the significant risks that impact the corporate loans is chaired by the CEO and, regularly inspects the integrity, reliability and Banks business, how and how well those in his absence, the Deputy CEO Chief Risk compliance with applicable law of operations risks are managed and controlled, what Officer and approves loans resulting in the conducted by the Banks risk management measures are used to monitor the process, Banks overall exposure exceeding US$1.5 departments, and regularly reviews the the reliability of the Banks key performance million.
The third tier subcommittee for retail reliability of the Banks information technology indicators and management information and loans is chaired by the Director of the Credit systems in accordance with a predetermined the efficiency of the process.
Risk Management Department and approves schedule.
It also assesses the reliability and loans of up to US$2.0 million.
The fourth tier security of financial information and monitors Treasury.
Treasury is responsible for subcommittee for retail loans is chaired by the the Banks internal controls and reporting managing the Banks assets and liabilities CEO and, in his absence, the Deputy CEO procedures.
and its overall financial structure and is also Chief Risk Officer and approves loans primarily responsible for managing funding resulting in the Banks single borrower lending The Bank Internal Audit Department is and liquidity risks of the Bank.
independent of the Bank Management Participation of CEO is required for exposures Board.
The Head of the Bank Internal Audit Credit Committees.
The Bank has three exceeding US$8.0 million.
All exposures to Department is appointed by the Bank credit committees together, the Credit single group borrowers over US$25.0 million Supervisory Board and reports directly to Committees, one which supervises and require approval by the Supervisory Board.
The Bank Internal manages the Banks credit risks in respect The third and fourth tier subcommittees of Audit Department has 11 employees.
The of retail and investment management loans the Credit Committee for retail loans meet Banks Internal Audit Department audits all and one which supervises and manages the three times per week and the first and Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 50 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees Specifically, ALCO: sets money-market credit exposure Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans USD lending limits: sets open currency position limits with Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$500,000 for existing respect to overnight and intraday Credit Risk Management and new borrower positions: Between US$500,000 and establishes stop-loss limits for foreign Tier II Head of the Credit Risk Analysis unit US$1.5 million for existing and currency operations and securities: new borrower monitors compliance with the Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$1.5 million for established risk management models existing and new borrower for foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding liquidity risk: Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans USD sets ranges of interest rates for different maturities at which the Bank may place Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$150,000 Credit Risk Management its liquid assets and attracts funding: and Tier II Deputy Head of Credit Risk Between US$150,000 and reviews different stress tests and Management department US$300,000 for retail loans capital adequacy models prepared Tier III Director of the Credit Risk Between US$300,000 and by the Finance Department.
Management department US$2.0 million Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$2.0 million The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and at any time deemed necessary, with decisions made by a majority vote of its members.
second tier subcommittees of each of the Management Department: 2 the heads of ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy Credit Committees meet on an as-needed the Risk departments, of which there are CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, Chief Risk basis, typically two to three times per week.
two: 3 the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer : Officer, Deputy CEO Corporate Banking, Each of the subcommittees of the Credit or 4 the Chief Executive Officer, depending Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, Deputy CEO, Committees makes its decisions by a on the level of exposure.
The Problem Loan Investment Management, the Head of the majority vote of its respective members.
Recovery Department manages the Banks Financial Department, the Head of the The Credit Committee for Micro and SME exposures to problem loans and reports to Treasury Department and the Head of the loans comprises three tiers of subcommittees, the Deputy CEO Chief Legal Officer.
The ALCO reviews and falls under the Credit Committee for Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer also chairs financial reports and indices including the retail loans.
The first tier Micro and SME the committee which oversees loans which Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, statement Credit Committee is chaired by the head are the subject of litigation.
of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, of the group of the Micro and SME Lending currency gap, foreign exchange risk, interest Department and approves loans resulting in The Corporate Recovery Committee is rate risk and funding liquidity risk reports, the Banks overall exposure to a borrower of up chaired by the Deputy CEO Chief Risk total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow to US$15,000.
The originator of the loan does Officer and is responsible for monitoring all analysis, concentration risk analysis, for the not participate in the approval of the loan.
The of the Banks exposures to loans that are past periods as well as future projections second tier Micro and SME Credit Committee being managed by the Corporate Recovery and forecasts, other financial analysis and is chaired by the Micro and SME Department Department.
The Corporate Recovery further growth projections on a monthly basis.
representative head of the Micro and SME Department reports to the Deputy CEO Department, deputy head of department, Corporate Banking.
Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia coordinator and approves loans resulting in the are set by NBG and are applied to the Bank, Banks overall exposure to a borrower up to Asset and Liability Management on a stand-alone basis.
The third tier Micro and SME Committee ALCO.
The ALCO is the core Bank to maintain a minimum Total Capital Credit Committee approves loans resulting risk management body that establishes Adequacy ratio of 12% of risk-weighted in the Banks overall exposure to a borrower in policies and guidelines with respect to capital assets and a minimum Tier I Capital the range of US$100,000 to US$1,200,000.
adequacy, market risks and respective limits, Adequacy ratio of 8% of risk-weighted The committee is chaired by the Risk Manager, funding liquidity risk and respective limits, assets, both computed based on the Banks with mandatory participation from either the interest rate and prepayment risks and stand-alone special purpose financial Head of the Credit Risk Analysis Unit or the respective limits, money market general statements prepared in accordance with Head of the Credit Risk Management terms and credit exposure limits, designs NBG regulations and pronouncements.
The Department or his or her deputy for and implements respective risk management Bank also follows Basel I capital adequacy exposures exceeding US$500,000.
and stress testing models in practice and regulations on its own, having established regularly monitors compliance with the respective minimal internal ratios of 16% for Recovery Committees.
The Problem Loan pre-set risk limits, approves treasury deals Total Capital and 10% for Tier I Capital, as Recovery Committee is chaired by one of the with non-standard terms.
following: 1 the heads of the Problem Loan Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 51 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED opposed to 8% and 6% of original Basel I based on recommendations and requirements Banks risk-based approach means that it pronouncement, respectively.
ALCO is the of international organisations including FATF applies enhanced due diligence procedures key governing body for the Capital adequacy and OFAC recommendations.
The Banks if it determines that there is a significant risk management as well as for the respective Internal Audit Department makes annual that particular customers are engaged in risks identification and management.
assessments of the Banks AML systems money laundering or financing terrorism.
ALCO establishes limits and reviews actual and provides independent assurance of performance over those limits for both internal controls.
The Bank carries out transaction monitoring NBG as well as Basel I capital adequacy using profiling and rules-based methodologies.
The Finance Department is in The Bank has policies and procedures Customer profiling is used to identify unusual charge of regular monthly monitoring and aimed at preventing money laundering patterns of activity by comparing current reporting over NBG and Basel I capital and terrorist financing, including a general patterns with previous transactions by the adequacy compliance with original anti-money laundering policy and rules same customer or peer group.
Under the pronouncements as well as with ALCO on counteracting money laundering and rule-based methodology, certain types policies.
Capital adequacy management is financing of individuals and legal entities of transactions over GEL 30,000 or its an integral part of the Banks actual monthly engaged in terrorist activities, as well as equivalent in foreign currencies as well reporting as well as the Banks annual and procedures for reporting to the FMS, a as transactions involving certain high-risk, semi-annual budget approval and budget legal entity of public law.
The FMS was non-cooperative or suspicious jurisdictions review processes.
The Finance Department established in 2003 and serves as are subject to monitoring and reporting.
prepares NBG and Basel I and Basel II III Georgias Financial Intelligence Unit.
These capital adequacy actual reports as well procedures aim to, among other things, The Banks transaction monitoring system as their forecasts and budgets, as well as mitigate the risk of the Bank being used as is supported by a software application that different stress scenarios for both regulations, a vehicle for money laundering or terrorist enables fully automated monitoring of all while ALCO and the Management Board financing, protect the Bank from financing transactions against blacklists.
These regularly review them, identify risks, and reputation risks of being associated blacklists include all sanctions lists and lists issue recommendations or propose with money laundering or terrorist financing of banned individuals and organisations amendment measures.
activities and ensure that banking services maintained by OFAC, the European Union, are provided only to bona fide customers.
the United Nations and Interpol, including Legal Department.
The Legal Departments OFACs specially designated nationals list, principal purposes are to ensure that the The Bank has implemented specific policies among others.
The Bank also screens Banks activities conform to applicable and procedures in order to satisfy the customers to determine whether they are legislation and to minimise losses from the requirements of the EUs Third Directive, politically exposed persons or other high-risk materialisation of legal risks.
The Legal which requires financial institutions to identify customers.
It applies special KYC procedures Department is responsible for the application and verify the identity of its customers and prior to opening an account for a politically and development of mechanisms for their beneficial owners and monitor its exposed person and requires approval from identifying legal risks in the Banks activities customers transactions, while taking into a deputy CEO.
in a timely manner, the investigation of the account a risked-based approach.
Adopting Banks activities in order to identify any legal a risk-based approach implies the adoption The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS of all risks, the planning and implementation of of a risk management process for dealing transactions that are subject to monitoring.
all necessary actions for the elimination of with money laundering and terrorist financing.
These reports are currently filed in electronic identified legal risks, participation in legal This process encompasses recognising the form in the offline mode by the AML proceedings on behalf of the Bank where existence of risks, undertaking an assessment Compliance Department, the reporting necessary and the investigation of possibilities of those risks and developing strategies to process is fully automated, which is supported for increasing the effectiveness of the Banks manage and mitigate the identified risks.
The by the special supporting solution.
legal documentation and its implementation Bank uses a risk assessment matrix based in the Banks daily activities.
The Legal on customer, sector, country and product Implementation Department is also responsible for providing risk.
The Bank has a general AML policy: The Banks risk management system is legal support to structural units of the Bank.
know your customer procedures that require implemented by the Finance Department, it to identify its customers, verify their identity Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Anti-Money Laundering Compliance.
The and their ultimate beneficial owners as well Analytics Department, Treasury, Credit Risk Banks AML Compliance Department is as the economic rationale of their transactions: Management, Operational Risk Management responsible for the implementation of the know your correspondent bank procedures and Control, Legal, AML Compliance and Banks AML programme including the that involve careful screening of prospective Security departments and other departments.
development of AML policies and procedures, correspondent banks AML policies: and The Reporting and Analysis Unit reports to transaction monitoring and reporting and know your employee procedures to the Head of the Finance Department.
The employee training throughout the Bank and prevent its employees involvement in money Finance Department and the Treasury its subsidiaries.
The AML programme is laundering and financing terrorism.
The Department report to the Deputy CEO Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 52 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Finance.
The Credit Risk Management the Banks procedures, instructions, manuals, The Group maintains a management reporting CB Portfolio Analysis, Quantitative Risk templates and other relevant documentation.
system which requires the Credit Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department It also disseminates information on legislative Management, Finance and Funding and Operational Risk Management and changes to all relevant departments within departments to prepare certain reports on Control departments report to the Deputy the Bank.
The Legal Department also a daily and monthly basis.
On a daily basis, CEO Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk participates in drafting laws and regulatory a statement of operations, balance sheet Management Retail Banking Portfolio documents upon request of legislators and and treasury report which includes the Analysis department reports to the Deputy regulators, certain associations and other Banks open foreign exchange positions, CEO Retail Banking.
The Legal department, professional bodies.
cash flows, limits and balances on NOSTRO AML Compliance department and Problem and LORO correspondent accounts and Loan Recovery Department report to the The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance confirmation that there has been compliance Deputy CEO Legal.
Department focuses on the Banks with mandatory financial ratios must be relationship with the tax authorities and provided by each department.
On a monthly The Quantitative Risk Management and Risk provides practical advice and monitors basis, a report on the structural liquidity Analytics Department, in coordination with tax compliance across the Group.
gap, a report on interest rate risk, monthly the Treasury, implements the Banks market financial statements, and a Bank Supervisory risk policies by ensuring compliance with Each of the foregoing departments is Board quarterly report containing analysis established open currency position limits, provided with policies and or manuals that of the Banks performance against its counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible are approved by the Bank Management budget are provided.
losses and the interest rate policy set by Board and or the Bank Supervisory Board the ALCO.
The manuals and policies Information compiled from all the businesses include comprehensive guidance for each is examined and processed in order to The Treasury Department manages foreign stage of a transaction, including, but not analyse, control and identify early risks.
currency exchange, money market, securities limited to, manuals outlining asset and liability This information is presented and explained portfolio and derivatives operations and management policies, foreign exchange to the Management Board, and the head of monitors compliance with the limits set by operations procedures, fixed income each business division.
The report includes the ALCO for these operations.
The Treasury investment guidelines, Retail Banking aggregate credit exposure, liquidity ratios Department is also responsible for management operations procedures, the deposit policy and risk profile changes.
Senior management of short-term liquidity and treasury cash flow and the Credit Policies.
assesses the appropriateness of the allowance and monitors the volumes of cash in the for credit losses on a monthly basis.
The Banks ATMs and at its service centres.
Risk measurement and reporting Bank Management Board and Supervisory The Bank measures risk using a method Board receive a comprehensive risk report The Credit Risk Management Department which reflects both the expected loss likely once a quarter which is designed to provide manages credit risks with respect to particular to arise in normal circumstances and all the necessary information to assess and borrowers and assesses overall loan portfolio unexpected losses, which are an estimate draw conclusions on the Banks risk exposure.
It is responsible for ensuring compliance of the ultimate actual loss based on with the Banks Credit Policies, management different forecasting models.
These models Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared of the quality of the Banks loan portfolio and use probabilities derived from historical and distributed for all levels throughout the filing and loan administration.
experience, adjusted from time to time to Bank in order to ensure that all business reflect the economic environment.
The Bank divisions have access to extensive, relevant The Operational Risk Management and also runs worst case scenarios that could and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing Control Department is responsible for arise in the event that extreme events, is given to the Bank Management Board and identification and assessment of operational however unlikely, do, in fact, occur.
all other relevant employees of the Bank on risk categories within the Banks processes the utilisation of market limits, proprietary and operations.
It is also responsible for Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily investments and liquidity, plus any other risk detecting critical risk areas or groups of performed based on limits established by developments.
operations with an increased risk level and the Bank.
These limits reflect the business developing internal control procedures to strategy and market environment of the Bank Risk mitigation and excessive risk address these risks, through among other as well as the level of risk that it is willing to concentration things business-process optimisation accept, with additional emphasis on selected As part of its overall risk management, the schemes, including document circulation, industries.
The Bank also conducts ongoing Bank uses derivatives and other instruments information streams, distribution of functions, monitoring and control allowing efficient to manage exposures resulting from changes permissions and responsibility.
adjustments in case of any unexpected in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit changes in the conditions on which the risks, and exposures arising from forward The Legal Department monitors all changes preliminary risk assessment was made.
While these derivatives are in relevant laws and regulations, and ensures addition the Bank monitors and measures intended for hedging, they do not qualify for that those changes are properly reflected in the overall risk bearing capacity in relation hedge accounting.
to the aggregate risk exposure across all risk types and activities.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 53 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce with the underlying agreement, and monitors operations, market position, management, its credit risks.
the market value of collateral obtained during level of shareholder support, financial its review of the adequacy of the allowance condition, proposed business and financing Concentrations arise when a number for the loan impairment.
The Bank also plan and on the quality of the collateral of counterparties, or related shareholders, mitigates its credit risk by obtaining collateral offered.
The appropriate level of the relevant are engaged in similar business activities, and using other security arrangements.
The Credit Committee is responsible for making or activities in the same geographic region, exposure to financial institutions is managed decision for loan approval based on credit or have similar economic features that would by limits covering on and off-balance sheet memorandum, and where appropriate, credit cause their ability to meet contractual exposures and by settlement limits with risk managers report.
The loan approval obligations to be similarly affected by changes respect to trading transactions such as procedures for Retail Banking loans depend in economic, political or other conditions.
on the type of retail lending product.
Concentrations also involve combined, aggregate exposures of large and significant The Credit Committees approve individual Applications for consumer loans, including credits compared to total outstanding transactions and establish their credit risk credit cards, and auto loans are treated balance of the respective financial instrument.
The under the scoring approval procedure.
Concentrations indicate the relative Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer and Credit While certain loans of up to GEL 6,000 are sensitivity of the Banks performance to Risk Management Department reviews approved by the scoring system, the developments affecting a particular industry the credit quality of the portfolio and sets appropriate Credit Committee will determine or geographical location.
In order to avoid provisioning rates, in consultation with the the amount, terms and conditions of other excessive concentrations of risks, the Bank Banks CEO and Deputy CEO Finance, loans.
Applications for mortgage loans by focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio.
Retail Banking clients are completed by the Identified concentrations of credit risks are mortgage loan officer and submitted to the controlled and managed accordingly.
See The Banks credit quality review process Credit Risk Manager, who evaluates the Credit Risk below.
provides early identification of possible credit risks and determines the amount, changes in the creditworthiness of terms and conditions of the loan, which Credit Risk counterparties, including regulator collateral must be approved at the appropriate Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a revisions.
Counterparty limits are established Credit Committee level.
In the case of borrower or counterparty will be unable by the use of a credit risk classification microfinancing loans, officers evaluate loan to pay amounts in full or in part when due.
system, which assigns each counterparty applications, prepare a project analysis and Credit risk arises mainly in the context of a risk rating.
Risk ratings are subject to submit proposals to the appropriate Credit the Banks lending activities.
Committee which makes the final decision.
The credit quality review process allows the Bank to assess the Credit Committee members have equal Mitigation: The general principles of the voting authority and decisions are approved potential loss as a result of the risks to which Banks credit policy are outlined in the Credit it is exposed and take corrective action.
by a simple majority of votes.
The Credit Policies also outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures The Bank makes available to its customers The Bank has conservative credit and the Banks credit risk management approval processes and underwriting guarantees letters of credit which may systems.
The Credit Policies are reviewed require that the Bank make payments on criteria, all of which are intended to annually or more frequently if necessary.
maintain the quality of its assets as their behalf.
Such payments are collected As a result of these reviews, new procedures from customers based on the terms of the its loan portfolio grows.
addressing the standards and methodology guarantee letter of credit.
They expose the for loan loss provisioning pursuant to IFRS Bank to similar risks to loans and these are Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain requirements were implemented, new loan other Georgian banks and with the Credit mitigated by the same control processes restructuring tools were introduced and the and policies.
information Group, a provider of Credit loan terms were tightened.
The Bank also information solutions, established JSC uses the NBGs provisioning methodology Loan Approval Procedures Credit Information Georgia CIG, that serves in order to comply with NBG requirements.
The procedures for approving loans, a centralised credit bureau in Georgia.
monitoring loan quality and for extending, Since 2009, all the participating banks The Bank manages its credit risk by placing refinancing and or restructuring existing share and contribute positive and negative limits on the amount of risk accepted with loans are set out in the Banks Credit Policies customer credit information with CIG.
respect to individual corporate borrowers that are approved by the Supervisory Board or groups of related borrowers, liability of of the Bank and or the Management Board Collateral insurance companies, types of banking of the Bank.
The Credit Committees approve The Bank typically requires credit support operations and by complying with the individual transactions and establish credit or collateral as security for the loans and exposure limits established by the NBG.
The risk categories and provisioning rates.
The credit facilities that it grants.
The main forms Bank monitors the market value of collateral, Bank evaluates Corporate Banking Clients of credit support are guarantees and rights requests additional collateral in accordance on the basis of their credit history, business to claim amounts on the borrowers current Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 54 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 account with the Bank or other assets.
Significant loans are defined as loans Liquidity Risk The main forms of collateral for corporate in the amount of GEL 600,000 or more and Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the lending are charges over real estate non-significant loans are defined as loans Bank will be unable to meet its payment properties, equipment, inventory and trade less than GEL 600,000.
The Credit Risk obligations when they fall due under normal receivables and the main form of collateral for Management department makes an and stress circumstances.
retail lending is a mortgage over residential individual assessment of significant loans property.
In the case of corporate loans, the and loans with category A rating are given Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through Bank usually requires a personal guarantee a collective assessment rate.
All significant the ALCO-approved liquidity framework.
surety from the borrowers shareholders.
loans other than category A are provisioned Treasury manages liquidity on a daily basis.
Under the Banks internal guidelines, collateral individually depending on the category they In order to manage liquidity risk, it performs should be provided where it is required to fall in.
Categories are determined according daily monitoring of future expected cash flows cover outstanding liabilities during the entire to borrowers financial performance on customers and banking operations, which duration of a transaction.
As of 31 December business performance, leverage, credit is a part of the assets liabilities management 2013, 88.5% of the Groups loans to clients history, quality of management and process.
The Finance Department prepares were collateralised.
An evaluation report of the shareholders support.
In addition, the loan and submits monthly reports to the ALCO.
proposed collateral is prepared by the Asset to collateral ratio and quality of collateral The ALCO monitors the proportion of Appraisal and Disposal department and may affect the provisioning rates of maturing funds available to meet deposit submitted to the appropriate Credit individually assessed loans.
All nonwithdrawals and the amounts of inter-bank Committee, together with the loan application significant loans are divided into different and other borrowing facilities that should be and credit risk managers report.
When groups for example mortgage, consumer, in place to cover withdrawals at unexpected evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts microfinancing loans.
the market value of the assets to reflect the liquidation value of the collateral.
All loans in range of GEL 100,000600,000 The liquidity risk management framework with overdue days more than 10 days are models the ability of the Bank to meet its Measurement provisioned individually and non-significant payment obligations under both normal The Banks compliance with credit risk loans that are overdue more than 30 days conditions and during a crisis situation.
The exposure limits is monitored by the Credit Risk are provisioned individually based on overdue Bank has developed a model based on the Management department on a continuous days.
All non-impaired non-significant loans, Basel III liquidity guidelines.
Exposure and limits are subject to as well as non-impaired prime rated designed to ensure that the funding framework annual or more frequent review.
The Bank significant loans, are assessed collectively is sufficiently flexible to ensure liquidity under a establishes provisions for impairment losses within the sub-loan portfolio categories wide range of market conditions.
The liquidity of financial assets when there is objective based upon historical loss rates.
Nonmanagement framework is reviewed from time evidence that a financial asset or group of significant loans which are overdue for more to time to ensure it is appropriate to the Banks financial assets is impaired.
The Bank than 150 days are written off automatically, current and planned activities.
Such review creates provisions by reference to the except for mortgage loans which, since encompasses the funding scenarios modelled, particular borrowers financial condition June 2009, are written off once overdue for the modelling approach, wholesale funding and the number of days the relevant loan more than 365 days.
Significant loans may capacity, limit determination and minimum is overdue.
If in a subsequent period the be written-off following an assessment by holdings of liquid assets.
The liquidity amount of the impairment loss decreases the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the framework is reviewed by the ALCO prior to and the decrease can be related objectively Credit Risk Management department, in approval by the Bank Management Board.
to an event occurring after the impairment consultation with the Banks CEO and was recognised, the previously recognised Deputy CEO, Finance.
The Finance Department also undertakes an impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted annual funding review that outlines the provision account.
The determination of As of January 2014, the Bank implemented current funding strategy for the coming year.
provisions for impairment losses is based a new provisioning methodology that is This review encompasses trends in global on an analysis of the assets at risk and based on statistical assessment of Probability debt markets, funding alternatives, peer reflects the amount which, in the judgement of Default PD and Loss Given Default LGD analysis, estimation of the Banks upcoming of the Banks management, is adequate to for each of the loan type.
The management funding requirements, estimated market provide for losses incurred.
Provisions are believes that the new methodology is a funding capacity and a funding risk analysis.
made as a result of an individual appraisal refinement of the existing methodology and will The annual funding plan is reviewed by the of financial assets.
allow better allocation of Cost of Risk between Bank Management Board and approved by different products.
The overall impact of the the Bank Supervisory Board as part of the Provisions are made against gross loan change in methodology on provisioning rate annual budget.
The Funding and Treasury amounts and accrued interest.
Under the and on financial statements is not going to be departments also review, from time to time, Banks internal loan loss allowance material.
The new methodology was developed different funding options and assess the methodology, which is based upon IFRS in consultation with Deloitte.
Deloitte was a refinancing risks of such options.
requirements, the Bank categorises its loan provider of IT solution fineVare.
portfolio into significant and non-significant Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 55 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE: RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Borrowed funds maturity breakdown Change USD, millions 2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 year-on-year Eurobonds 400.0 Senior Loans 68.7 67.6 58.7 36.4 12.9 4.8 Subordinated Loans 35.0 10.0 50.1 Promissory Notes 3.0 2.8 Total 71.7 70.4 58.7 471.4 22.9 54.9 % of Total assets as of 31 December 2013 1.9% 1.9% 1.6% 12.6% 0.6% 1.5% Mitigation: The Banks capability to discharge The Banks principal sources of liquidity are The Bank Management Board believes that its liabilities is dependent on its ability to as follows: each of the Groups and the Banks liquidity realise an equivalent amount of assets within deposits: is sufficient to meet each of their present the same period of time.
The Bank maintains borrowings from international credit requirements.
For information on the Groups a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse institutions: liquid assets, liabilities and maturity profile of assets that it believes can be easily liquidated inter-bank deposit agreement: the Groups financial liabilities as well as in the event of an unforeseen interruption of debt issuances: further information on the liquidity risk cash flow.
It also has committed lines of credit proceeds from sale of securities: of the Group see Note 27 of the Notes to that it can access to meet its liquidity needs.
principal repayments on loans: Consolidated Financial Statements of this Such lines of credit are available through the interest income: and Annual Report.
In addition, the fee and commission income.
Bank maintains a cash deposit obligatory Market Risk reserve with the NBG, the amount of which As of 31 December 2013, the Groups total Definition: The Bank is exposed to market depends on the level of customer funds consolidated amounts due to customers risk including currency exchange rate risk attracted.
As of 31 December 2013, in line was GEL 3,117.7 million US$1,795.6 million and interest rate risk, which is the risk that with the NBGs requirements, 15% of as compared to GEL 2,693.0 million and the fair value or future cash flows of financial customer deposits in foreign currencies were instruments will fluctuate due to changes in GEL 2,735.2 million as of 31 December 2012 set aside as minimum reserves.
In addition, and 2011, respectively and represented market variables.
Market risk exposure arises the Bank maintains a minimum average from mismatches of maturity and currencies 59.0% as compared to 58.6% and 71.0% as balance of 10% of its customers deposits in of 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively between the assets and liabilities, all of which Georgian Lari at its correspondent account are exposed to market fluctuations.
of the Groups total liabilities.
For wholesale funding, the NBG amounts due to customers are term deposits requires the Bank to set aside 15% of its Mitigation: The general principles of the of individuals.
In accordance with Georgian unsubordinated foreign currency wholesale legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such Banks market risk management policy are funding for borrowings with a remaining set by the ALCO.
The Bank aims to limit and deposits upon demand of a depositor.
maturity of less than one year, 5% for In case of early withdrawal, the interest reduce the amount of possible losses on borrowings with a remaining maturity of one open market positions which may be on deposit is foregone or reduced.
As of to two years and 10% of its unsubordinated 31 December 2013, total amounts due to incurred by the Bank due to negative Georgian Lari wholesale funding for changes in currency exchange rates and credit institutions were GEL 1,886.1 million borrowings with a remaining maturity of less US$1,086.3 million as compared to GEL interest rates.
The Bank classifies exposures than one year.
to market risk into either trading or non- 1,657.2 million and GEL 921.2 million as of 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively trading positions.
Trading and non-trading Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the positions are managed and monitored using and represented 35.7% as compared to majority of working capital loans are 36.1% and 23.9% as of 31 December 2012 different sensitivity analyses.
In order to short-term and granted with the expectation address these risks, the ALCO specifically and 2011, respectively of the Groups total of renewal at maturity.
As such, the ultimate liabilities.
Amounts due to credit institutions establishes VAR limits on possible losses for maturity of assets may be different from the each type of operation currently the VAR are taken from a wide range of counterparties.
In addition, limit is set for foreign currency exchange the maturity gap analysis does not reflect the operations only and the Quantitative Risk historical stability of current accounts.
Management and Risk Analytics monitors compliance with such limits.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 56 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Currency Exchange Rate Risk.
Currency Mitigation: The Bank manages its before impairment of interest-earning assets exchange rate risk is the risk that the value divided by average interest-earning assets operational risks by establishing, monitoring of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to and continuously improving its policies and sufficient to cover operational expenses and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Within limits approved by the procedures relating to the various aspects of The Bank is exposed to the effects of the Banks cash, payments, accounting, Bank Supervisory Board, the ALCO approves fluctuation in the prevailing foreign currency ranges of interest rates for different maturities trading and core processing operations and exchange rates on its financial position.
The data back-up and disaster recovery at which the Bank may place assets and Banks currency risk is calculated as an attract liabilities.
Compliance with the Banks arrangements.
aggregate of open positions and is interest rate policy is monitored by the controlled by setting a VAR calculation Quantitative Risk Management and Risk The Bank has an integrated control established by the ALCO with respect to framework encompassing operational risk Analytics Department.
The Bank uses management and control, AML compliance, the historical simulation method based on corporate and information security and As of 31 December 2013, the Groups 400 business day statistical data.
Its open floating rate borrowings accounted for physical security, each of which is managed currency positions are managed by the by a separate department, and an internal 8.1% of the Groups total liabilities.
Treasury Department on a day-to-day basis audit function for the Bank.
and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, Management and Risk Analytics which is the risk that the Bank will incur a The Operational Risk Management and Department.
The ALCO sets open currency Control Department is responsible for financial loss because its customers and position limits with respect to both overnight counterparties repay or request repayment identification and assessment of operational and intra-day positions and stop-loss limits.
risk categories within the Banks processes earlier than expected, such as fixed rate Currently, the Banks proprietary trading mortgages when interest rates fall.
The and operations, detecting critical risk areas position is limited by the ALCO to a or groups of operations with an increased Group reviews the prior history of early maximum of 15.0% of the Banks NBG total repayments by calculating the weighted risk level, developing response actions and regulatory capital.
The open currency the imposition of restrictions in critical risk average effective rate of early repayments position is also limited by ALCO to a VAR of across each credit product, individually, zones to mitigate identified risk and 7 basis points of its NBG regulatory capital developing business-process optimisation applying these historical rates to the for a one-day trading period with a 95.0% outstanding carrying amount of each loan schemes, including document circulation, tolerance threshold.
The ALCO limits are information streams, distribution of functions, product as of the reporting date and then more conservative than NBGs multiplying the product by the weighted permissions and responsibilities.
The requirements, which allow banks to keep Operational Risk Management and Control average effective annual interest rates for open positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory each product.
This allows the Bank to Department is also responsible for capital.
The Bank additionally limits open developing and updating policies and calculate the expected amount of unforeseen foreign currency positions other than US losses in the case of early repayments.
procedures and ensuring that these policies Dollars and Lari to 1% of the regulatory and procedures meet legal and regulatory For further information on the Groups capital.
The Bank also applies sensitivity market risk see Note 27 of the Notes to requirements and help to ensure that stress tests to its open currency positions to material operating risks are within acceptable Consolidated Financial Statements of this estimate potential negative impact on its net Annual Report.
It also monitors and periodically assets and earnings.
reviews the Banks internal control systems Operational Risk to detect errors or infringements by the Interest Rate Risk.
The Bank has exposure to Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss Banks departments and divisions.
The Head interest rate risk as a result of lending at fixed arising from systems failure, human error, of the Operational Risk Management interest rates in amounts and for periods fraud or external events.
When controls fail Department, who reports to the Deputy CEO which differ from those of term borrowings to perform, operational risks can cause Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for the at fixed and floating interest rates.
Interest damage to reputation, have legal or oversight of the Banks operational risks.
margins on assets and liabilities having regulatory implications, or lead to financial different maturities may increase or decrease loss.
The Bank cannot expect to eliminate as a result of changes in market interest rates.
all operational risks, but through a control framework and by monitoring and Similarly to other Georgian banks, the responding to potential risks, the Bank majority of the Banks assets and deposits aims to manage the risks.
Controls include have fixed interest rates.
In order to minimise effective segregation of duties, access, interest rate risk, the Bank monitors its authorisation and reconciliation procedures, interest rate re-pricing gap and maintains staff education and training and assessment processes, including the use of internal audit.
an interest rate margin net interest income Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 57
