Risk management Barclays risk management strategy The aim of the Go-To risk management process is to provide a The following pages provide a comprehensive structured, practical and easily understood set of three steps Evaluate, Respond and Monitor the E-R-M process that enables overview of Barclays approach to risk management to identify and assess those risks, determine the management and more specific information on appropriate risk response, and then monitor the effectiveness of the policies that the Group determines to be of risk response and changes to the risk profile.
particular significance in the current operating environment.
This section outlines the Groups strategy for managing risk and how risk culture has been Evaluate developed to ensure that there is a set of objectives and practices which are shared across the Group.
It provides details of the Groups governance, how responsibilities are assigned and the committee structure.
The last section provides an insight into how risk management is part of the strategy setting process, including the planning process, the setting of risk appetite and Monitor Respond stress testing across the Group.
Evaluate: Risk evaluation must be carried out by those individuals, These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated teams and departments that are best placed to identify and assess the potential risks, and include those responsible for delivering the objectives under review.
Barclays Risk Management Strategy audited 2.
Respond: The appropriate risk response effectively and efficiently Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
ensures that risks are kept within appetite, which is the level of risk that Barclays is prepared to accept whilst pursuing its business strategy.
At a strategic level, the risk management objectives are to: There are three types of response: accept the risk but take the necessary mitigating actions such as using risk controls: stop the Identify the Groups significant risks: existing activity do not start the proposed activity, or continue the activity but lay off risks to another party e. g. insurance.
Formulate the Groups risk appetite and ensure that the business profile and plans are consistent with it: 3.
Monitor: Once risks have been identified and measured, and Optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible controls put in place, progress towards objectives must be tracked.
to the business, while establishing strong and independent review Monitoring must be ongoing and can prompt re-evaluation of the risks and challenge structures: and or changes in responses.
Monitoring must be carried out proactively and is wider than just reporting and includes ensuring Ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by effective risk infrastructure: risks are being maintained within risk appetite and checking that controls are functioning as intended and remain fit for purpose.
Manage the risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions: and The process is orientated around material risks impacting delivery of Help executives improve the control and coordination of risk taking objectives, and is used to promote an efficient and effective approach to risk management.
This three step risk management process: across the business.
Can be applied to every objective at every level in the bank, both In February 2013, Barclays announced the outcome of its strategic top-down or bottom-up: review and set out its commitments for 2015 which are critical to Is embedded into the business decision making process: making Barclays the Go-To bank for all its stakeholders.
Guides our response to changes in the external or internal As part of this commitment the Barclays Go-To Enterprise Risk environment in which existing activities are conducted: and Management Framework ERMF sets out the activities, tools, Involves all staff and all three lines of defence see page 380 techniques and organisational arrangements so that material risks facing the Bank can be better identified and understood, and that appropriate responses are in place to protect Barclays and prevent Barclays risk culture enabling the Go-To bank detriment to its customers, colleagues or community.
This will help the In every area of Barclays activities, outcomes of decisions or actions Bank meet its goals, and enhance its ability to respond to new may be uncertain and could potentially impact whether, or how well, opportunities.
the Group delivers against its objectives.
Risk management, therefore, plays a significant role in the Group achieving its goals and in turning Barclays into Go-To bank.
Barclays risk culture is the set of objectives and practices, shared across the organisation, that drive and govern risk management.
378 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information a The Salz Review issued recommendations to improve the culture of See Risk appetite on page 386 for more information.
Specifically, to develop a consistently strong risk culture, the report recommended: Supporting colleagues to manage risk in the right way By supporting colleagues to manage Risk in the right way, the Group Embedding a strong, consistent risk control framework in all the seeks to ensure that all risk managers share the Barclays values and a businesses, that articulates responsibilities across the three lines of common understanding of the role that risk management plays in defence, and that reinforces the role of the front line: promoting them: Clear risk appetite statements for all types of risk, embed adherence Risk Management capability and ability to act in a risk aware manner in all business units, and reinforce with strong management actions forms part of the assessment process for all new and promotion in cases of breaches: and candidates globally: Embedding risk and compliance criteria in performance evaluations, Management of risk and control is assessed as part of the annual and in remuneration and promotion decisions.
performance appraisal process for all colleagues globally.
Positive risk management behaviours will be rewarded: During 2013 work streams have been initiated which implement the recommendations and help position the risk function to effectively and The Being Barclays Global Induction programme supports new efficiently support Barclays strategy.
colleagues in understanding the importance of risk to how Barclays does business and the link to the Barclays values: and The Transform Risk initiative Leadership Master Classes cover the building, sustaining and During 2013 a new global management structure for risk was unveiled supporting a trustworthy organisation and are offered to colleagues to improve delivery against the Transform commitments, to meet the globally.
demands of the regulators, the Board, and the wider business and also to create an appropriate environment for risk colleagues to work, Risk Governance and Assigning Responsibilities audited advance their careers and contribute to the success of the Bank.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels of the Group, Transform Risk is being led by the Risk Executive Committee, from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the coordinated by the global Risk COO, and supported by a team of people organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays from across the risk function.
It represents a significant shift in the distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are: taken operating model, process and systems, and will support the drive for at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business: and, both greater effectiveness and efficiency.
subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The responsibilities for effective review and challenges reside with senior The Transform programme has provided the opportunity to extend managers, risk oversight committees, the independent Group Risk best practices to more functions and business units, and in other cases function, the Board Financial Risk Committee BFRC, Board Conduct, identify needed updates or improvements.
This work has been Reputation and Operational Risk Committee BCROR, Board Enterprise captured in the new Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF Wide Risk Committee BEWRC and, ultimately, the Board.
that has been deployed across the organisation and provides a common set of principles and standards that will form the fundamental As part of the Transform programme, the Group has introduced the elements of the risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF which sets out standard group-wide governance arrangements.
It also sets out the The components of the ERMF set out a philosophy and approach that roles and responsibilities of all employees with respect to risk is applicable to the whole bank, to all colleagues and to all types of risk, management, including the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Executive hence establishing, maintaining and improving the risk culture of Officer.
The ERMF is a key deliverable of the programme and sets out a Barclays.
comprehensive and effective approach for the management of all risks at Barclays and supports the step change in risk management and See Risk Governance and Assigning Responsibilities on page 379 for control including: more information.
Sustainable and consistent implementation of the three lines of defence see three lines of defence below : Risk appetite and the Tone from the top Communicating and enforcing risk appetite in all businesses creates a Further improvements to the management of risks including common understanding and fosters debate around what types of risks increased focus on Conduct and Reputational risks: are acceptable, and what levels are appropriate at business and Group Consistent application of Barclays risk appetite across all Principal level.
Risks: and, To develop a consistently strong risk culture across the Group, Barclays Streamlining and simplification of the policy hierarchy.
has communicated clear statements as to the Group risk appetite for all risk types and further embedded adherence to Group-wide appetite The ERMF is intended to be widely read and to set out a philosophy into all businesses.
In particular, risk appetite: and approach that is applicable to the whole bank, all colleagues and to all types of risk.
It also sets out specific requirements for key Articulates the types and level of risk we are willing to take and why, individuals, including the Chief Risk Officer and Group Chief Executive, to enable specific risk taking activities.
It also specifies those risks we to undertake and the overall governance framework that will oversee its seek to avoid and why, to constrain specific risk taking activities: effective operation.
It will be embedded within key decision making processes including business planning, mergers and acquisitions, new product approvals The ERMF sets out the activities, tools, techniques and organisational and business change initiatives: arrangements to ensure that all material risks are identified and understood, and that appropriate responses are in place to protect the It provides for performance management and disciplinary Group and prevent detriment to its customers, colleagues or consequences in cases of breach: and community, enabling the Bank to meets its goals, and enhance our Ultimately owned by the Group CEO, who is responsible for leading, ability to respond to new opportunities.
managing and organising executive management to achieve execution of the Barclays strategy and business plans in line with risk appetite.
Note a An independent review by Anthony Salz, commissioned by the Board barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 379 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued The ERMF includes those risks incurred by Barclays that are With respect to risk management the second line of defence foreseeable, continuous, and material enough to merit establishing responsibilities include: specific bank-wide control frameworks.
These are known as Key Risks Defining the Enterprise Risk Management Framework: and are grouped into six Principal Risks.
Conduct and Reputation risks were reclassified as Principal Risks in 2013.
See Principal Risks on Establishing the control environments for the Key Risks, including Key page 384 for more information.
Risk Control Frameworks, policies, and standards: Defining delegated discretions and set limits within the control A clear and consistent control framework entails specific frameworks to empower risk taking by the first line: responsibilities.
As a result, not only has the definition of the three lines of defence been clarified see three lines of defence below but its Assisting in the direction of the portfolio to achieve performance scope has been extended to all businesses and functions.
This creates against risk appetite: the proper context for setting standards and establishing the right May define and operate approval processes for certain decisions practices throughout the bank.
See Barclays risk culture enabling the within the second line to protect the Bank from material risks: Go-To bank on pages 378 and 379 for more information.
Communicating, educating and advising the first line on their Three lines of defence understanding of the risk framework and its requirements: The three lines of defence operating model enables Barclays to Collaborating with the first line to support business growth and drive separate risk management activities between those parties that: an appropriate balance between risk and reward without diminishing 1.
Own and take risk, and implement controls first line : the independence from the first line: and 2.
Oversee and challenge the first line, provide second line risk Reporting on the effectiveness of the risk and control environment to manactivity and support controls second line : and executive management and Board committees.
Provide assurance that the E-R-M process is fit for purpose, and Third line: Provide assurance that the E-R-M process is fit for purpose, that it is being carried out as intended third line.
and that it is being carried out as intended Third line activities are characterised by: The Enterprise Risk Management process is the defence and organising businesses and functions into three lines enhances the Providing independent and timely assurance to the Board and E-R-M process by formalising independence and challenge, whilst still Executive Management over the effectiveness of governance, risk promoting collaboration and the flow of information between all areas: management and control.
First Line: Own and take risk, and implement controls With respect to risk management the third line of defence First line activities are characterised by: responsibilities include: Ownership of and direct responsibility for Barclays returns or Assessing the effectiveness of risk management and risk mitigation elements of Barclays P&L: or in the context of the current and expected business environment: and Ownership of major operations, systems and processes fundamental to the operation of the bank: or Acting independently and objectively, without taking responsibility for the operations of the bank or the definition of the Enterprise Risk Direct linkage of objective setting, performance assessment and Management Framework and Group policies.
With respect to risk management the first line responsibilities include: Governance audited Governance Structure Taking primary accountability for risk identification, ownership, Risk exists when the outcome of taking a particular decision or course management and control including performance of portfolios, of action is uncertain and could potentially impact whether, or how trading positions, operational risks, etc.
within approved mandate, well, we deliver on our objectives.
as documented under the Key Risk Control Frameworks, including embedding a supportive risk culture: Barclays faces risks throughout its business, every day, in everything it Collaborating with second line on implementing and improving risk does.
Some risks we choose to take after appropriate consideration management processes and controls: like lending money to a customer.
Other risks may arise from unintended consequences of internal actions, for example an IT system Monitoring the effectiveness of risk controls and the risk profile failure or poor sales practices.
Finally, some risks are the result of compared to the approved risk appetite: and events outside the Bank but which impact our business such as major Maintaining an effective control environment across all risks, exposure through trading or lending to a market counterparty which processes and operations arising from the business, including later fails.
implementing standards to meet Group policies.
All employees must play their part in the Banks risk management, Second Line: Oversee and challenge the first line, provide second line regardless of position, function or location, and are required to be risk management activity and support controls familiar with risk management policies that are relevant to their Second line activities are characterised by: activities, know how to escalate actual or potential risk issues, and have a role appropriate level of awareness of the Enterprise Risk Oversight, monitoring and challenge of the first line of defence Management Framework, risk management process and governance activities: arrangements.
Design, ownership or operation of Key Risk Control Frameworks impacting the activities of the first line of defence: Operation of certain second line risk management activities: and No direct linkage of objective setting, performance assessment and reward to revenue measures related to mitigation of losses and balancing risk and reward are permissible.
380 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Oversight Board approves overall Risk Appetite Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee considers and recommends to the Board the Groups overall Risk Appetite reviews the Groups overall Risk Profile satisfies itself on the design and completeness of the Groups internal control and assurance framework relative to the risk profile, including the Principal Risk Categories to evaluate and report to the Board on the Groups overall risk profile and risk monitoring considers key enterprise wide risk themes Board Remuneration Board Conduct, Board Audit Board Financial Committee Reputation & Operational Committee Risk Committee Risk Committee reviews remuneration principles reviews the effectiveness of the considers the adequacy and reviews Group Risk Profile and approach processes by which Barclays effectiveness of the Group approves the Group identifies and manages conduct Control Framework approves remuneration based Control Framework and reputational risk, including on risk-adjusted performance reviews reports on control issues approves minimum control annually reviewing the Conduct of Group level significance requirements for principal risks and Reputation Risk Control Frameworks consider whether business decisions will compromise Barclays ethical policies or core business beliefs and values considers the Groups risk appetite statement for Operational Risk evaluates the Groups Operational Risk profile and Operational Risk monitoring Authority controls appetite barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 381 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued There are four key Board level committees which review and monitor The BFRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk risk across the Group.
These are: the Board, the Board Enterprise Wide methodologies and the Groups risk profile including the key issues Risk Committee, the Board Financial Risk Committee and the Board affecting each business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk Officer or senior risk The Board managers in the businesses.
The Chair of the Committee prepares a The Board Board of Directors of Barclays PLC is responsible for statement each year on its activities see the BFRC Chairmans report approving risk appetite see the Barclays risk management strategy on page 70. section on page 378, which is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly The Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee presents a report to the Board summarising developments in the risk BCROR environment and performance trends in the key portfolios.
The Board The BCROR was created in 2013 in order to strengthen the Board level oversees the management of the most significant risks through the governance over conduct risk and reputation matters.
It reviews the regular review of risk exposures and related key controls.
Executive effectiveness of the processes by which Barclays identifies and management responsibilities relating to this are set via the Groups manages conduct and reputational risk and considers whether ERMF.
business decisions will compromise Barclays ethical policies or core business beliefs and values.
It also considers the Groups risk appetite The Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee BEWRC statement for operational risk and evaluates the Groups operational The BEWRC was introduced in 2013 and is a committee of the Board, risk profile and operational risk monitoring.
from which it derives its authority and to which it regularly reports.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to review, on behalf of the Board, In addition, the Board Audit and Board Remuneration Committees managements recommendations on risk, in particular: receive regular reports on risk to assist them in the undertaking of their duties.
See the BCROR Chairmans Report on page 73 for additional Consider and recommend to the Board the Groups overall risk details of its membership and activities of the BCROR.
appetite: Review, on behalf of the Board, the Groups overall Risk Profile: and The Board Audit Committee BAC The BAC receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and Satisfy itself on the design and completeness of the Groups internal a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment allowances, which control and assurance framework relative to the risk profile, including it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the business the Principal Risk categories.
environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and the performance trends of peer banks.
The Chair of the BAC also sits on the BEWRC membership comprises the Group Chairman and Chairmen of BFRC.
See the BAC Chairmans Report on page 62 for additional details the Board Audit Committee, Board Conduct, Reputation and on the membership and activities of the BAC.
Operational Risk Committee, Board Financial Risk Committee and Board Remuneration Committee.
The Group CEO, Group CRO, Group The Board Remuneration Committee BRC Finance Director, Head of Compliance, General Counsel and Chief The BRC receives a detailed report on risk management performance Internal Auditor are mandatory attendees.
from the BFRC which is considered in the setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive packages.
See the Remuneration The Board Financial Risk Committee BFRC Report on page 89 for additional details on membership and activities BFRC monitors the Groups risk profile against the agreed appetite.
of the Board Remuneration Committee.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, the actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the BFRC is Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the BFRC experience of the Directors of the Board are given in the Board of prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first Directors section on pages 83 to 85.
The terms of reference for each of established a separate BFRC in 1999 and all members are nonthe principal Board Committees are available from the Corporate executive directors.
The Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer Governance section at: http: group.
com About-us attend each meeting as a matter of course.
382 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Reporting and Control Chief Executive Group Executive Committee monitors and manages risk adjusted performance and businesses Enterprise Wide Risk Management Committee considers the key Group-wide risk themes which may have a significant impact on the Group considers the overall risk profile performance against risk appetite considers the design and completeness of the Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework also reports into the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Report into Board Financial Risk Committee Report into Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee Financial Treasury Tax Risk Operational Conduct & Risk Committee Committee Risk & Control Reputation Risk Committee Committee Committee monitors risk profile in sets policy controls for monitors the tax risk reviews, challenges and assesses quality of the respect to risk appetite liquidity, maturity profile in respect of recommends appetite application of the transformation and risk appetite for Operational Risk Reputation and Conduct debates and agrees actions structural interest rate Risk Control Frameworks on the financial risk profile assesses the quality of monitors risk profile exposure and risk strategy across the application of the against risk appetite recommends risk appetite the Group monitors the Groups control framework for relevant Key Risk Types and sets policies to ensure liquidity and interest consistent adherence to considers issues escalated considers issues that reviews the Groups rate maturity mismatch that appetite by Risk Type Heads and arise as a result of aggregate Operational Business Risk Directors monitors usage of developing trends Risk profile reviews known and regulatory and emerging reputational reviews and challenges economic capital and conduct related risks presentations on to consider if action is oversees the management individual Key Risk Types required of the Groups capital plan Proactively considers reputational and conduct related issues that arise as a result of business activity and from external forces Credit Market Funding Operational Conduct Reputation Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk The Enterprise Wide Risk Management Committee EWRMC was The launch of the Transform programme and subsequent introduction of the ERMF has introduced a more integrated One Risk approach to created in 2013 and was established by, and derives its authority from, the Group Chief Risk Officer CRO.
It supports the CRO in the provision how the Group manages risk, including governance, risk appetite, processes, and the effectiveness of its controls, together with of oversight and challenge of the systems and controls in respect of risk management, particularly: leveraging colleague development opportunities.
Review, challenge and recommend risk appetite: During its day-to-day operations the Group faces a number of risks, which may be: i assessed and considered appropriate e. g. granting a Monitor risk profile against risk appetite: and loan to a customer : ii as a result of unintended consequences of Review the design and completeness of the ERMF and Principal Risk internal actions e. g. IT system failure : or iii as a result of events categories.
outside the Groups control but which impacts our business e. g. financial disruption in a region in which the Group operates.
EWRMC membership includes the Group CRO, Group Chief Executive Officer CEO, Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel, and The Groups approach to risk taking is structured, systematic and Head of Compliance.
comprehensive, built into the decision making as objectives and aligned to the Evaluate, Respond and Monitor E-R-M process as defined in the section Barclays Risk Management Strategy.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 383 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued The CRO is a member of the Executive Committee and has overall Principal Risks audited day-to-day accountability for risk management under delegated Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the ERMF, which authority from the CEO.
While the CEO is accountable for proposing a covers the categories of risk in which Barclays has its most significant risk appetite that underpins the strategic plan to the Board for approval, actual or potential risk exposures.
the CRO is responsible for providing oversight, advice and challenge to the CEO, and providing a recommendation to the Board.
Risk appetite The ERMF: therefore sets the tone from the top and provides a basis for ongoing dialogue between management and Board level around Barclays Creates clear ownership and accountability: current and evolving risk profile.
Ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are understood and managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite for financial The CRO manages the independent Group Risk function and chairs the risks and risk tolerances for non-financial risks : and Financial Risk Committee FRC and the Operational Risk and Control Committee ORCC, which monitor the Groups financial and nonEnsures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating financial risk profile relative to established risk appetite.
Reporting to effectiveness of controls.
the CRO, and working in the Group Risk function, are risk type heads for retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk A Principal Risk comprises individual Key Risk Types to allow for more and fraud risk.
The risk type heads are responsible for establishing a granular analysis of the risk associated within it.
The six Principal Risks Group-wide framework for oversight of the relevant risks and controls.
are: i Credit: ii Market: iii Funding: iv Operational: v Conduct: and vi The risk type teams liaise with each business as part of the monitoring Reputation.
Each Key Risk is owned by a senior individual known as the Group Key In addition, each business has an embedded risk management Risk Officer who is responsible for developing a risk appetite statement function, headed by a Business Chief Risk Officer BCRO.
BCROs and and overseeing and managing the risk in line with the EMRF.
This their teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the includes the documentation, communication and maintenance of a identification and management of their business risk profiles and for risk control framework which makes clear, for every business across implementing appropriate controls.
These teams also assist Group Risk the firm, the mandated control requirements in managing exposures to in the formulation of Group policies and their implementation across that Key Risk.
These control requirements are given further the businesses.
The business risk directors report jointly to their specification, according to the business or risk type, to provide a respective business heads and to the CRO.
complete and appropriate system of internal control.
The risk type heads within the Group Risk function and the BCROs Business function heads are responsible for obtaining ongoing within the businesses report to the Chief Risk Officer and are members assurance that the key controls they have put in place to manage the of the FRC or ORCC as appropriate.
risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
Six-monthly reviews support the regulatory requirement for Barclays to make an During 2013 a Risk Executive Committee was created, which is annual statement about its system of internal controls.
responsible for the effectiveness and efficiency of risk management and embedding a strong risk culture, approval of the Groups risk Group Key Risk Officers report their assessments of the risk exposure governance framework, and agreement and endorsement of the overall and control effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees and infrastructure strategy for the risk function.
It is also the senior decision their assessments form the basis of the reports that go to the: making forum for the risk function excluding matters relating to the risk profile.
It is chaired by the CRO with a membership comprising BFRC: senior risk management from the risk centre and the businesses.
Financial Risk Committee has oversight of Credit and Market Risks: and The CEO must consult the Chairman of the BFRC in respect of the Chief Risk Officers performance appraisal and compensation as well as all Treasury Committee has oversight of Funding Risk.
appointments to or departures from the role.
and, BCRORC: The Group Treasurer heads the Group Treasury function and chairs the Operational Risk and Control Committee has oversight of all Treasury Committee which: Operational Risk types, with the exception of Tax Risk, which is Manages the Groups liquidity, maturity transformation and structural primarily overseen by the Tax Risk Committee: and interest rate exposure through the setting of policies and controls: Conduct and Reputation Risk Committee has oversight of the Monitors the Groups liquidity and interest rate maturity mismatch: Conduct and Reputation Risks.
Monitors usage of regulatory and economic capital: and Each Group Key Risk Officer also undertakes an annual programme of Has oversight of the management of the Groups capital plan.
The Head of Compliance chairs the Conduct and Reputation Committee which assesses quality of the application of the Reputation and Conduct Risk Control Frameworks.
It also recommends risk appetite, sets policies to ensure consistent adherence to that appetite, and reviews known and emerging reputational and conduct related risks to consider if action is required.
384 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Conformance and assurance Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk Conformance and assurance is undertaken to assess the control management and the control environment.
Its objective is to provide environment: reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive Management over the effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and Conformance: Activities undertaken to check the degree to which evolving high risks and in so doing enhancing the controls culture defined processes are being followed.
The BAC reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
An Conformance testing is a planned, systematic and documented assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
programme of checking, that has the objective of providing evidence that controls have been operated in accordance with documented The Executive Models Committee EMC is chaired by the Chief Risk process.
Testing results provide management with a view of the Officer.
The EMC, reports into the Enterprise Wide Risk Management effectiveness of the control environment supporting their operations.
Committee and fulfils the specific requirement of approving the Groups Conformance review is a planned, risk based programme of activity most material A models, as required by the PRA.
The EMC receives to assess the quality of conformance testing.
Conformance review is submissions from the businesses responsible for the A models and undertaken by individuals who are independent of the management reviews and approves A models and Post Model Adjustments PMAs team running the operations.
Review results enable management to related to those models.
assess how much assurance they can place on the results of conformance testing.
Conformance testing and conformance review The Disclosure Committee reviews and evaluates the Groups may also identify opportunities for improvement to policies and disclosure controls and procedures and has responsibility for standards.
considering the materiality of information and determining disclosure obligations on a timely basis.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Assurance: Undertaken to independently assess the overall enterprise Director.
It reports into the Group Executive Committee and the BAC.
risk management framework, which includes testing specific elements of the control environment documented in standards and checking Risk management in the setting of strategy that conformance activities are reliable, to provide the Board The planning cycle is centred on the medium term planning MTP confidence in the risk and control framework.
This embeds the Groups objectives into detailed business plans which take account the likely business and macroeconomic environment.
The risk functions at Group and business levels are heavily involved in this process.
The planning cycle Plan Evaluate Businesses submit their five year Risk reviews and challenges Medium-Term Plans MTP based businesses MTP and makes on agreed macroeconomic recommendations to ExCo business base case and Board Stress Respond Group Risk undertakes regular Risk recommends to BRFC, for stress testing of portfolio to assess The planning cycle agreement by the Board, top-down performance against various financial constraint parameters scenarios and to explicitly identify and Group risk appetite for the actions to mitigate risk following year Monitor Limit setting Group Risk Profile monitored against Mandate and Scale M&S limits agreed risk appetite and presented reviewed by Risk and submitted to to BRFC quarterly BRFC annually.
M&S limits monitored quarterly with breaches reported to senior management In addition to supporting transaction decisions, the measurement and The risk appetite and the Group-wide stress testing processes, control of credit, market, operational and other risks have considerable described below, are closely linked to the MTP process and also influence on Barclays strategy.
The Board is solely responsible for support strategic planning and capital adequacy.
The risk appetite approving the MTP, the associated risk appetite statement, and the process ensures that senior management and the Board understand capital plans.
As such, the business plans of Barclays must incur a level the MTPs sensitivities to key risk types, and includes a set of M&S of risk that falls within the Boards tolerance, or be modified limits to ensure the Group stays within appetite.
The BFRC has been in place since 1999 and is devoted to management on the impact to the business of detailed scenarios.
review the firms risk and make appropriate recommendations to the Integral to the Group-wide stress testing process is to explicity identify Board.
For details of the activities of the Board and the BFRC in 2013 a set of actions that management would take to mitigate the impact of see the Governance Structure section on page 380 and 381 and the a stress.
BFRC Chairmans report on page 70.
One of the main objectives of managing risk is to ensure that Barclays achieves an adequate balance between capital requirements and resources.
The capital planning cycle is fully integrated within strategic planning.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 385 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Medium-Term Planning MTP process The MTP process, performed annually, requires each business to Strategy Performance & Business Targets present its plans for business performance over the coming five years Model with a key focus on the first three years of the plan.
The MTP details the businesses strategy, the portfolio composition and the expected risk trends.
Achieving the planned performance in each business is dependent upon the ability of the business to manage its risks.
It is an iterative process featuring weekly reviews at the most senior levels as the plan is updated until final agreement.
The output includes a Legal, Risk detailed statement of the Groups strategy over the medium-term, as Regulatory Capacity Risk well as detailed financial projections.
& Fiscal appetite Requirements Risk managers support the MTP by providing robust review and challenge of the business plans to ensure that the financial projections are internally consistent: value creating: achievable given risk management capabilities e. g. supported by appropriate risk infrastructure and that they present a suitable balance between risk Reputation Purpose and reward.
This culminates in the risk review meetings in which the & Stakeholder & Values CRO and senior management in each of our businesses discuss the Expectations findings from the risk reviews, and changes to the business plans are mandated as necessary.
The business plans are prepared with reference to a consistent set of Setting risk appetite economic assumptions which are agreed by senior management and In this regard, the Group CEO is responsible for: reviewed within Group Risk to ensure that they appropriately reflect Leading the development of the Barclays strategy and business plans emerging risk trends.
They are used as baseline scenarios in the stress that align to our Goal, Purpose and Values and includes a risk testing and risk appetite processes.
appetite and risk profile proposal for Board approval: The output from the business plan forms the basis of all strategic Leading, managing and organising executive management to achieve processes.
In particular, the plans comprise projections of capital execution of the Barclays strategy and business plans in line with the resources and requirements given profit generation, dividend policy Board approved Purpose, Values, Code of Conduct the Barclays and capital issuance.
Risk variables are also considered, most Way and risk appetite.
This includes assessing risk holistically, importantly in the forecasting of the Groups impairment charge, on the ensuring the soundness of the financial position of Barclays, and that assessment of the business capital requirements going forward and in due consideration is given to the impact of Barclays on society, sensitivity analyses of the plans which include risk appetite and stress customers and clients, colleagues and the wider financial system: testing.
Barclays performance including financial and operational activities, risk profile current and outlook compared to approved risk appetite, Risk appetite and compliance with all laws, regulations and the Barclays Operating Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk that Barclays is prepared to Framework: and accept whilst pursuing its business strategy, recognising a range of possible outcomes as business plans are implemented.
Providing accurate, transparent and timely reporting to the Board on Barclays performance against plan, and include the risk profile Risk appetite sets the tone from the top and provides a basis for current and outlook compared to risk appetite under normal and ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to stressed scenarios.
Barclays current and evolving risk profile, allowing strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis.
The Group CRO is responsible for: Providing oversight, advice and challenge to the CEO with respect to At Barclays, the risk appetite framework is intended to achieve the the strategic plan: following objectives: Management of the risk appetite setting processes: Articulate the risks the Group is willing to take and why, to enable specific risk taking activities: and articulate those risks to avoid and Recommending risk appetite to the Board: why, to constrain specific risk taking activities: Ensuring the Board receive regular management information that Consider all Principal and Key Risks both individually and, where compares the risk appetite set for Barclays and the businesses by risk appropriate, in aggregate: type and in aggregate where appropriate: and Consistently communicate the acceptable level of risk for different Developing, operating and maintaining a comprehensive risk risk types: this may be expressed in financial or non-financial terms, management framework for Barclays that ensures the business but must enable measurement and effective monitoring: performs in line with the approved risk appetite.
Describe agreed parameters for Barclays performance under varying The Board review and approve risk appetite in aggregate and for all levels of financial stress with respect to: individual Principal Risks.
Profitability, loss and return metrics The ability to continue to pay a dividend: and The Risk function is responsible for implementation, operation and Be embedded in key decision-making processes including mergers monitoring of the banks approach to risk appetite.
and acquisitions, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
Risk appetite is formally reviewed on an annual basis in conjunction with the Medium-Term Planning MTP process.
Unapproved breaches of risk appetite and or limits will result in performance management and disciplinary consequences.
386 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group-wide stress tests are an integral part of the annual MTP process Financial volatility and ensure that the Groups financial position and risk profile provide Financial volatility is defined as the level of potential deviation from sufficient resilience to withstand the impact of severe economic stress.
expected financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at A key objective of the Group-wide stress test process is to identify and relevant points on the risk profile.
When setting appetite, management document management actions that would be taken to mitigate the and the Board articulate the Groups strategy and summarise objectives impact of stress.
The bottom-up process ensures all levels of in terms of key financial metrics.
The Groups risk profile is assessed via management are informed of the impact of the stress scenarios and a bottom-up analysis of the Groups business plans to establish the are aware of appropriate management actions to be taken when a volatility of the key metrics.
If the projections entail too high a level of stress event occurs.
The approach also includes reverse stress testing risk i. e. breach the top-down financial objectives at the  which aim to identify the circumstances under which our cycle, moderate or severe level, management will challenge each area business model would become no longer viable, leading to a significant to re-balance the risk profile to bring the bottom-up risk appetite back change in business strategy.
See Stress testing below for more within top-down appetite.
Performance against risk appetite usage is information.
measured and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board regularly throughout the year.
Our top-down appetite is quantified Risk appetite is approved and disseminated across Key Risks and through an array of financial performance and capital metrics which businesses, including the use of M&S limits to enable and control are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
For 2013, the strategic specific activities that have material concentration risk implications for metrics in the table below were set at three levels: through-the-cycle, the Group.
These limits also help avoid large one-off losses that are and stressed one in seven and one in twenty-five, which are defined specific to Barclays and outside stakeholder expectations.
as: Through-the-cycle: the average losses based on measurements over Barclays has run a risk appetite process since 2004 and this process many years: comprises Financial Volatility, which is the level of potential deviation from expected financial performance Barclays is prepared to sustain, 1 in 7 moderate loss: the worst level of losses out of a random and Mandate and Scale, which ensures the Group stays within sample of 7 years: and appetite.
The strategy and business activities are reflected in key 1 in 25 severe loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample performance metrics, which are dependent in large part on risk of 25 years.
These scenarios are defined through a level of probability of occurrence Simulate risk rather than through a specific set of economic variables like in stress tests.
Express business Set Mandate and Risk appetite concepts diagram not to scale objectives, under Scale limits to help Plan and Stressed ensure that maximum Mean conditions losses remain within loss acceptable limits Moderate Simulate risk stress performance under Severe stress conditions to Extreme stress Expected stress losses risk metric loss under each scenario to be consistent with Potential size of loss in one year business objectives The potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated in the risk appetite concepts chart above.
Since the level of loss at any given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives the Group clearer sight and better control of risk taking Manage and monitor risk metrics throughout the enterprise.
Specifically, this framework enables it to: as part of tracking of forecasts throughout year, and report to Improve management confidence and debate regarding the Groups the Board.
Implement strategic risk profile: changes if forecasts are outside of acceptable range given Re-balance the risk profile of the MTP where breaches are indicated, current conditions thereby achieving a superior risk-return profile: Identify unused risk capacity, and thus highlight the need to identify further profitable opportunities: and Improve executive management control and co-ordination of risk taking across businesses.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 387 Probability of loss Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Measure relevant to strategy and risk Link between strategy and risk profile Profit before tax, Fundamental economic and business indicators, which best describes shareholder focus in terms Return on equity, of profitability and ability to use capital resources efficiently.
Return on RWAs Loan loss rate LLR Describes the credit risk profile and whether impairment is within appetite.
Core Tier 1 and leverage ratios Monitors our capital adequacy in relation to capital plan.
Dividends Measures the risks of being able to continue paying appropriate dividends.
In summary, the stress levels represent the risk tolerance of Barclays in As well as Group-level Mandate & Scale limits, further limits are set by terms of its key objectives.
These objectives act as constraints on risk risk managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios.
performance and imply maximum levels of acceptable losses that are tracked quarterly and reported to the Board.
Any breaches must be Interaction of risk appetite with business strategy approved and remedial actions mandated.
The strategy and business activities are reflected in key performance metrics, which are dependent in large part on risk performance.
Risk Mandate and Scale appetite, as described above, helps to ensure that the strategy is The second element to the setting of risk appetite in Barclays is an adaptable to various degrees of financial stress.
extensive system of Mandate and Scale limits, which is a risk management approach that seeks to formally review and control Each year, the MTP process ensures that appetite takes account of the business activities to ensure that they are within Barclays mandate i. e. strategy detailed in the Barclays risk management strategy section on aligned with expectations, and are of an appropriate scale relative to page 386. the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
Barclays achieves this by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations which would be The Group risk profile developing in the plan is assessed in the financial out of line with expectations, and which may lead to unexpected losses volatility scenarios via a bottom-up process: this is then compared with of a scale that would be detrimental to the stability of the relevant the top-down view articulated via the key financial metrics described business line or the Group.
These limits are set by the independent risk above.
Any gap between the two views is challenged by management function, formally monitored each month and subject to Board-level in order to re-balance the risk profile and bring the bottom-up risk oversight.
appetite back within top-down appetite.
For example, in our commercial property finance and construction For further information on Risk factors and the Operating and business portfolios, a comprehensive series of limits are in place to control environment, refer to the Risk factors section see pages 133 to 141. exposure within each business and geographic sector.
To ensure that limits are aligned to the underlying risk characteristics, the Mandate Stress testing and Scale limits differentiate between types of exposure.
There are, for Group-wide stress tests are an integral part of the annual MTP process example, individual limits for property investment and property and annual review of risk appetite to ensure that the Groups financial development.
position and risk profile provide sufficient resilience to withstand the impact of severe economic stress.
The following diagram outlines the Barclays uses the Mandate and Scale framework to: key steps in the Group-wide stress testing process, which are described below.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions Limit concentration risk: to facilitate recovery from severe stress or an orderly resolution.
These Keep business activities within Group and individual business actions are additional to those included in the Group-wide stress mandate: testing process described in this section.
Ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the underlying risk and reward: and Ensure risk taking is supported by appropriate expertise and capabilities.
388 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Scenario Businesses Businesses Review and Results Capital plan Committee design and prepare run stress challenge pre postincluding presentations parameter MTP business testing business capital and approval setting plans models management management actions actions Stress testing management actions Pre-recovery plan Recovery actions Resolution Scenario design and setting: BFRC agrees the range of scenarios to scenarios to be run.
The process includes Group Risk consultation be tested and the independent Group Risk function leads the with economists in the businesses.
This ensures relevance of process.
Macroeconomic stress test scenarios are designed to be scenarios to our businesses and a consistent interpretation of the both severe and plausible, and relevant to our business.
The following scenarios across the Group.
diagram summarises the process for designing and agreeing the Scenario design and setting Group Risk Board Financial Risk Economic Economic Stress test scenarios develops scenario Committee provides parameters set parameters reviewed and economic themes in input and agrees on by Group Risk by economists within parameters issued consultation with scenario themes the businesses by Group Risk economists within the businesses At the Group level, stress test scenarios capture a wide range of Businesses prepare MTP business plans: each business prepares macroeconomic variables that are required to assess the impact of the detailed business plans which are used as the baseline for running stress scenario for each portfolio, and reflect the wide range of models their stress test analysis.
The MTP business plans are prepared at used across the Group to assess the impact of the stress.
This includes performance cell level across a detailed set of performance metrics for example, GDP, unemployment, asset prices, foreign exchange rates covering income, impairment, balance sheet and RWA information and interest rates.
Economic parameters are set using expert which is also reflected in the stress testing results see page 386 judgement and are calibrated using historical and quantitative analysis for further details on the MTP process.
The stress testing results are to ensure internal coherence and appropriate severity.
In addition, our used to inform MTP business plans, so there may be a number of scenarios are tested against the PRAs stress test scenarios.
iterations before the MTP business plans are finalised.
Businesses run stress testing models: the stress testing process is Examples of types of scenarios themes run as Group-wide stress tests detailed and comprehensive using bottom-up analysis performed by include: each of Barclays businesses, covering detailed performance metrics A global recession scenario capturing the wide range of businesses as outlined above and results are produced for each performance across Barclays: cell.
It includes all aspects of the Groups balance sheet across all risk types and is forward looking over a five year period.
Our stress testing US-centred macroeconomic scenario: and approach combines running statistical models with expert A peripheral Eurozone stress as part of the reverse stress testing judgement to ensure the results accurately reflect the impact of the framework see page 391. stress test economic scenario.
An overview of our stress testing approach by Principal Risk is provided in the table below: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 389 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Principal Risk Stress testing approach Credit risk Credit risk impairments: For retail portfolios businesses use regression models to establish a relationship between arrears movements and key macroeconomic parameters, such as interest rates and unemployment, incorporating roll-rate analysis to estimate stressed levels of arrears by portfolio.
In addition, combination of house price reductions and increased customer drawdowns for revolving facilities leads to higher loss given default LGD which also contributes to increased impairment levels.
For wholesale portfolios the stress shocks on credit risk drivers PDs, LGDs and EADs are primarily calibrated using historical and expected relationships with key macroeconomic paremeters such as GDP, inflation and interest rates.
The scenarios include market risk shocks that are applied to determine the market value under stress of contracts that give rise to counterparty credit risk.
Counterparty losses, including from changes to the credit valuation adjusment and from defaults, are modelled based on the impact of these shocks as well as using stressed credit risk drivers PDs and LGDs.
The same approach is used to stress the market value of assets held as available for sale or at fair value in the banking book.
Credit risk weighted assets: The impact of the scenarios is calculated via a combination of business volumes and similar factors to impairment drivers above, as well as the regulatory calculation and the level of pro-cyclicality of underlying regulatory credit risk models.
Market risk Trading book losses: All market risk factors on the balance sheet are stressed using specific market risk shocks and are used for the counterparty credit risk analysis, above.
The severity of the shocks applied are dependent on the liquidity of the market under stress, e. g. illiquid or sticky positions are assumed to have a longer holding period than positions in liquid markets.
Pension fund: The funding position of pension funds are stressed, taking into account key economic drivers impacting future obligations e. g. long term inflation and interest rates and the impact of the scenarios on the value of fund assets.
Funding risk The risk of a mismatch between assets and liabilities, leading to funding difficulties, is assessed.
Businesses apply scenario variables to forecasts of customer loans and advances and deposits levels, taking into account management actions to mitigate the impact of the stress which may impact business volumes.
The Group funding requirement under stress is then estimated and takes into account lower availability of funds in the market.
The analysis of funding risk also contributes to the estimate of stressed income and costs: Stress impact on non-interest income is primarily driven by lower projected business volumes and hence lower income from fees and commissions: Impact on net interest income is driven by stressed margins, which depend on the level of interest rates under stress as well as funding costs, and on stressed balance sheet volumes.
This can be partly mitigated by management actions that may include repricing of variable rate products, taking into account interbank lending rates under stress: and The impact on costs is mainly driven by business volumes and management actions to partly offset profit reductions due to impairment increases and decreases in income such as headcount reductions and lower performance costs.
Operational risk, Conduct risk and These Principal Risks are generally not assessed as part of economic scenario assessments, as they are Reputation risk not directly linked to the economic scenario.
Note that Operational risk, however, is included as part of the reverse stress testing framework that incorporates assessment of idiosyncratic operational risk events.
Management of Operational risk is described on pages 225 and 415 to 417 Management of Conduct risk is described on pages 228 to 229 Management of Reputation risk is described on pages 226 to 227 Review and challenge: the business stress test methodologies and Capital plan including capital management actions: the business results are subject to a detailed review and challenge both within the stress test results are aggregated to form a Group view of the impact businesses including review and sign-off by business CROs and by of the stress, which are used by Barclays Treasury Capital Head Office Functions.
In particular, this includes detailed risk review Management to determine the stress impact on the Group capital of both the stressed estimates e. g. impairments, and the plans.
As part of this assessment, capital management actions such methodology used to translate the economic scenario to stressed as reducing dividend payments or redeeming certain capital estimates.
Businesses are required to document their stress test instruments may be considered.
These are in addition to the business methodologies and results, including key assumptions made.
The management actions included in business stress testing results.
stress testing results are presented and discussed as part of the MTP Further management actions available in Barclays recovery plan that risk reviews held between each business and Barclays CRO.
are not included in the Group-wide stress testing results.
Results preand post-business management actions : a key Committee presentations and approval of stress scenario results: objective of the Group-wide stress test process is to identify and the stress test results are presented for review by the Executive document management actions that would be taken to mitigate the Committee and BFRC, and are also shared with the Board.
Businesses are required to report results both preand post-business management actions, such as cost reductions and The results of our H2 2013 internal Group-wide stress test exercise increased collections activity to reduce impairments, and to show that the Groups profit before tax remains positive under the document these actions.
The bottom-up process ensures all levels of modelled severe global stress scenario, with the Group remaining well management are informed of the impact of the stress scenarios and capitalised above the required regulatory minimum level.
The stress are aware of appropriate management actions to be taken when a test results are also shared with the PRA, e. g. as part of our internal stress event occurs.
For instance, during the recession of 2008-2010 capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP submission.
a programme of work based on the stress management actions was implemented and directly overseen by the Group Executive Committee.
390 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Reverse stress testing The Group-wide stress testing framework also includes reverse stress testing techniques which aim to identify the circumstances under which Barclays business model would become no longer be viable, leading to a significant change in business strategy.
Examples include extreme macroeconomic downturn scenarios, such as a break-up of the Euro area, or specific idiosyncratic events, covering both Operational risk and capital liquidity events.
Reverse stress testing is used to help support ongoing risk management and is fully integrated into our risk appetite framework.
Reverse stress testing methodology includes identifying tail risks associated with specific low likelihood circumstances, and identifying appropriate mitigating actions.
For example, the approach for managing Eurozone peripheral risks was informed by the results of the reverse stress testing assessment ran in 2010. Business and risk type specific stress tests Barclays also uses stress testing techniques at portfolio and product level to support risk management.
For example, portfolio management in the US cards business employs stressed assumptions of loss rates to determine profitability hurdles for new accounts.
In the UK mortgage business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed estimates of interest rates.
In the Investment Bank, global scenario testing is used to gauge potential losses that could arise in conditions of extreme market stress.
Stress testing is also conducted on positions in particular asset classes, including interest rates, commodities, equities, credit and foreign exchange.
Information on the Groups stress testing specifically relating to liquidity risk is set out in the Funding risk Liquidity section.
Further information on market risk stress testing is provided in the Market Risk section.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 391
