The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk management Operational risk management Organisation and structure audited Operational Risk Management Overview Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without Operational Risk is defined as the risk of direct or exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational indirect impacts resulting from human factors, damage.
Barclays has an overarching framework that sets out Barclays approach to internal governance the Barclays Guide.
The Barclays inadequate or failed internal processes and systems Guide establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the Board or external events.
During 2013 the Board Conduct, directs the organisation, through setting the tone and expectations Reputation and Operational Risk Committee was from the top, delegating its authority and monitoring compliance.
established and met to consider the impacts that A key component of the Barclays Guide is the Enterprise Risk operational risk may have on the Group.
The purpose of the ERMF is to identify and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance that internal controls are effective.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal control, which is aligned to the recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, Internal Control Integrated Framework COSO, are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to each of These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated the Groups Key Risks and in the Group Operational Risk Framework.
Operational Risk is one of six Principal Risks in the EMRF and comprises Overview audited a number of specific Key Risks defined as follows: The management of operational risk has two key objectives: CyberSecurity: Risk of loss or detriment to Barclays business and 1.
To minimise the impact of losses suffered, both in the normal customers as a result of actions committed or facilitated through the course of business small losses and from extreme events large use of networked information systems: losses.
External supplier: Inadequate selection and ongoing management of 2.
To improve the effective management of the Group and strengthen external suppliers: its brand and external reputation.
Financial reporting: Reporting mis-statement or omission within external financial or regulatory reporting: Barclays is committed to the measurement and management of operational risk and was granted a waiver by the FSA now the PRA to Fraud: Dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or cause a operate an Advanced Measurement Approach AMA for operational loss to others: risk under Basel 2, which commenced in January 2008.
The majority of Information: Inadequate protection of Barclays information in the Group calculates regulatory capital requirements using AMA 93% accordance with its value and sensitivity: of capital requirements, however, in specific areas we apply the Basic Indicator Approach 7%.
Barclays works to benchmark its internal Legal: Failure to identify and manage legal risks: operational risk management and measurement practices with peer Payments: Failure in operation of payments processes: banks and to drive the further development of advanced techniques.
People: Inadequate people capabilities, and or performance reward structures, and or inappropriate behaviours: Premises & security: Unavailability of premises to meet business demand and or safe working environments, and inadequate protection of physical assets, employees and customers against external threats: Product: Inadequate design, assessment and testing of products services: Regulatory: Failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial services industry: Taxation: Failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational damage: Technology: Failure to develop and deploy secure, stable and reliable technology solutions: and Transaction operations: Failure in the management of critical transaction processes.
These risks may result in financial and or non-financial impacts including legal regulatory breaches or reputational damage.
For more information on Legal, Regulatory and Taxation risks please see pages 136 to 140. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 415 Risk management Operational risk management continued The Operational Risk Framework comprises a number of elements Operational risk management audited which allow Barclays to manage and measure its Operational risk The Barclays Operational Risk framework is a key component of the profile and to calculate the amount of Operational risk capital that Enterprise Risk Management Framework and has been designed to Barclays needs to hold to absorb potential losses.
The minimum, meet a number of external governance requirements including the mandatory requirements for each of these elements are set out in the Basel Capital Accord, the Capital Requirements Directive and Turnbull Group Operational Risk Policies.
This framework is implemented across guidance as an evaluation framework for the purposes of Section 404 the Group: of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
It also supports the Sarbanes-Oxley vertically, through the organisational structure with all businesses requirements.
required to implement and operate an Operational risk framework that meets, as a minimum, the requirements detailed in these The operational risk framework includes the following elements: operational risk policies: and Risk and control self-assessments horizontally, with the Group Key Risk Officers required to monitor Barclays identifies and assesses all material risks within each business information relevant to their Key Risk from each Operational risk and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Managers in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place and assess The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and whether the risks are effectively managed within business risk appetite.
the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and The businesses are then able to make decisions on what, if any, action functional units where the risk arises.
Operational risk partners are is required to reduce the level of risk to Barclays.
These risk widely distributed throughout the Group and support these areas, assessments are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that each assisting line managers in understanding and challenging the business continually understands the risks it faces.
effectiveness of management of risks that they own.
Risk events The Operational Risk Director or equivalent for each business is An operational risk event is any circumstance where, through the lack responsible for ensuring the implementation of and compliance with or failure of a control, Barclays has actually, or could have, made a loss.
The definition includes situations in which Barclays could have made a loss, but in fact made a gain, as well as incidents resulting in The Group Operational Risk Director is responsible for establishing, reputational damage or regulatory impact only.
owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of Operational Risk across A standard threshold is used across the Group for reporting risk events the Group.
The Operational Risk & Control Committee OR&CC is the and part of the analysis includes the identification of improvements to senior executive body responsible for the oversight and challenge of processes or controls, to reduce the recurrence and or magnitude of Operational Risk and the control environment in Barclays.
For significant events, both financial and non-financial, this of the OR&CC are presented to the Board Conduct, Reputation and analysis includes the completion of a formal lessons learnt.
Barclays also uses a database of external risk events which are publicly In addition, specific operational risk committees or governance and available and is a member of the Operational RiskData eXchange control committees at the business level, monitor the risk and control ORX, a not-for-profit association of international banks formed to environment.
The OR&CC receives reports from these committees and share anonymous loss data information.
Barclays uses this external loss considers Group-significant control issues and their remediation.
In information to support and inform risk identification, assessment and addition, the OR&CC presents control issues to the Board Audit measurement.
Key indicators Businesses are required to report their operational risks on both a Key Indicators KIs are metrics which allow Barclays to monitor its regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the operational risk profile.
KIs include measurable thresholds that reflect material risks to their business objectives and the effectiveness of key the risk appetite of the business.
KIs are monitored to alert controls, control issues of Group-level significance, operational risk management when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk events and a review of scenarios and capital.
Specific reports are appetite levels and drive timely decision making and actions.
prepared on a regular basis for OR&CC, BCRORC and BAC.
The Internal Audit function provides further independent review and challenge of the Groups operational risk management controls, processes and systems and reports to the Board and senior management.
416 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Operational risk measurement Operational risk appetite Barclays approach to determining its operational risk appetite Barclays assesses its operational risk capital requirements using an Advanced Measurement Approach.
The approach involves estimating combines both quantitative measures and qualitative judgement, in order to best reflect the nature of non-financial risks.
the potential range of losses that could be incurred in a year from operational risk events, using statistical distributions.
Regulatory capital The monitoring and tracking of operational risk measures is requirements are set to cover 99.9% of the estimated losses.
Barclays also assesses its economic capital requirements to cover 99.98% of the supplemented with qualitative review and discussion at senior management executive committees on the action being taken to estimated losses that exceed the typical losses diversified across all improve controls and reduce risk to an acceptable level.
Operational risk appetite is aligned to the Groups Risk Appetite The potential frequency and severity of losses is estimated for each Key Framework.
The Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Risk within the Operational Risk category in each business and Committee considers and recommends to the Board for approval, via function.
The potential range of individual loss severities is represented the Enterprise Wide Risk Committee, the Groups risk appetite by a statistical distribution, estimated from the average loss size and statement for Operational Risk based on performance in the current three extreme scenarios from Key Risk Scenarios, as well as loss data year and the projections for financial volatility the following year.
from the Operational RiskData eXchange ORX.
Reporting The capital calculation also takes into account the possibility of The ongoing monitoring and reporting of operational risk is a key correlations between operational risk losses occurring in a year component of the Barclays Operational Risk Framework.
Reports are between risks within businesses and functions and between used by the Operational Risk function and by Business management to businesses and functions.
understand, monitor, manage and control operational risks and losses.
In certain joint ventures and associates, Barclays may not be able to The operational risk profile is reviewed by senior management at the apply the AMA and so uses the Basic Indicator Approach BIA to Operational Risk & Control Committee and the Board at the Board calculate operational risk capital.
With the BIA, Barclays is required to Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
hold a certain percentage, currently 15% of average gross income, in capital.
Areas where the BIA is applied are: the Africa RBB businesses, Key risk scenarios including Barclays Bank Mozambique and National Bank of Commerce Tanzania : Barclays Bank PLC Pakistan: the new to bank business Key Risk Scenarios are a summary of the extreme potential risk exposure for each Key Risk in each business and function, including activities acquired from Lehman Brothers: and the portfolios of assets purchased from Woolworths Financial Services in South Africa, Citi an assessment of the potential frequency of risk events, the average size of losses and three extreme scenarios.
The Key Risk Scenario Cards Portugal and Italy, Standard Life Bank, ING Direct, MBNA Corporate Cards, Upromise, RCI, Egg Cards, EdCon, Sallie Mae and assessments are a key input to the Advanced Measurement Approach calculation of regulatory and economic capital Ameriprice.
requirements see following section on Operational Risk Measurement.
The assessment is performed by Key Risk Officers, Insurance taking into account analysis of internal and external loss experience, As part of its risk management approach, the Group also uses key risk indicators, risk and control self-assessments and other risk insurance to mitigate the impact of some operational risks.
The businesses and functions analyse potential extreme scenarios, considering: the circumstances and contributing factors that could lead to an extreme event: the potential financial and non-financial impacts eg reputational damage : and the controls that seek to limit the likelihood of such an event occurring, and the mitigating actions that would be taken if the event were to occur eg crisis management procedures, business continuity or disaster recovery plans.
Management may then conclude whether the potential risk is acceptable within appetite or whether changes in risk management control or business strategy are required.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 417
