Strategic Risk overview Maintaining our risk pro le at an acceptable and appropriate level is essential to ensure our continued performance.
Barclays constantly reviews its exposures in a number of areas including asset quality, industry and geography.
2013 performance While the economic environment in Barclays main areas of business was marked by generally weak growth in 2013, the loan impairment charges reduced by 7% with the loan loss rate nshing the year 6bp lower at 64bps.
The loan impairment charge for wholesale decreased by 27% principally re ecting a reduction in Corporate Banking due to lower exposure to the Spanish property and construction sector and lower charges in the UK.
Impairment increased by 4% in retail mainly in UK RBB and Barclaycard as the two businesses grew and expanded their business portfolios and from the non-recurrence of releases in 2012.
Market risk remains at moderate levels and the daily value at risk reduced in 2013 from a combination of risk reduction and improved market conditions, notably, tightening of credit spreads.
The operational risk pro le remained broadly steady while conduct risk relating to legacy issues was evidenced by additional provisions for PPI and interest rate hedging product redress.
Our funding pro le continued to strengthen during 2013 as reliance on wholesale funding reduced as the loan to deposit ratio decreased to 101%.
The Group's capital position was enhanced through the 5.8bn rights issue and 2.1bn AT1 securities as action was taken to move Although economic and toward regulatory capital and leverage targets.
market conditions remained Risk was realigned in 2013 through two main programmes: Transform Programme challenging in 2013, our Under Transform, the risk pro les of businesses were adjusted as they were aligned with their revised strategies to meet the goal of becoming credit and market risk the Go-To bank.
This included a lowering of risk in Corporate Banking as Exit Quadrant assets were reduced in 2013.
In Europe RBB, the risk portfolios have continued pro le is in line with the change of focus to mortgage lending and small business customers through its Premier proposition.
The risk to perform well pro le in Barclaycard remained broadly stable with growth within appetite and in line with ongoing strategy of recruiting quality prime customers, combined with a controlled testing into other open market areas of business.
Revised Risk Management Structure In 2013, the Group also introduced the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF, which sets out a framework and approach that is applicable to the whole bank, all colleagues and to all types of risk.
To strengthen the governance relating to conduct and reputation matters Conduct risk and Reputation risk were re-categorised as Principal Risks in 2013 with Executive Committee sponsorship from the Principal Risk Owner, the Head of Compliance.
The Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee was also created in 2013.
It recommends to the Board the Groups overall risk appetite as well as evaluating and reporting details of the Groups overall risk pro le and risk monitoring.
14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 In this section the Group Chief Risk Chief Executives strategic review 04 Office gives a summary of key changes Strategy and operating environment 06 in Principal Risks during 2013. Business model Value creation 08 Balanced Scorecard 10 Group Finance Directors review 12 Strategic Risk overview 14 Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 Key influences on risk in 2013 In 2013, a number of risks were considered and dealt with in order to Future priorities minimise impact on the Groups performance and ability to meet its goals and priorities.
These included, but were not limited to: At a time of significant internal and external change and uncertainty in the business environment, it is important that we continue to Uncertain economic environment, including GDP growth, inflation, keep our customers at the forefront of our activities while meeting property values and unemployment new regulatory requirements and improving effectiveness in the risk Political uncertainty in a number of countries which could have management process.
Our priorities for 2014 reflect these aims and adversely impacted the Groups retail and institutional customers include: The risk of a Eurozone crisis whereby a sovereign may default and Providing our customers with faster decisions and enhancing exit from the Eurozone.
While this receded somewhat during 2013 it support for those experiencing difficulties could have resulted in losses to the Group through, for example, Closely managing funding and liquidity risk including redomination risk redenomination risk Changes in both the level and volatility of prices, for example, interest Meeting regulatory expectations in relation to the PRA Leverage rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign Ratio during 2014 exchange rates, which could impact earnings or capital Implementing and embedding the ERMF across Risk including Potential operational risk of service disruption to customers as a further enhancement of reputation and conduct risk management result of failed systems or human errors, or increasing threat from cyber-attacks and breaches of security, with adverse effects on the Continuing to manage and control impairment across the firm Groups reputation, operations and financial condition Continuing to enhance and strengthen our operational risk Increased levels of legal proceedings in jurisdictions where it management processes operates, and changing legal and regulatory environments, which Further enhancing Recovery and Resolution Planning and could lead to fines, public reprimands and damage to reputation responding to regulatory requirements for structural reform e. g. Changing and uncertain regulatory environment UK Retail Ring Fence Risk and business strategy The risk function plays a significant role in review and challenge of risks inherent within business plans and strategy by verifying that they fall within financial volatility risk appetite and incur a level of risk that is individually and in aggregate acceptable to the Board, or be modified accordingly.
The Group-wide stress testing process is similarly linked to the medium term planning process and also supports strategic planning and capital adequacy.
Barclays manages human rights risk via our environmental and social risk procedures and guidance and our reputational risk framework and continues to work collaboratively with others in our sector on integration of human rights issues into business decision making.
Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the ERMF, which covers the categories of risk in which Barclays has its most significant actual or potential risk exposures, which are known as Principal Risks see table on the following pages.
Robert Le Blanc Chief Risk Officer barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 15 Strategic Risk overview continued Example of a related strategic objective and associated risks Principal Risk Objective Example of a significant risk taken in pursuit of the objective Examples of how Barclays mitigates the risk and how this primarily contributes to our scorecard Credit risk The suffering of financial loss should any We are committed to supporting all our The credit risk that the Group faces from The Group sets out the level of risk it is prepared to accept through the Customers & Clients of our customers not fulfil their contractual customers, counterparties and clients in providing services to customers mainly risk appetite agreed by the Board and closely monitors and manages obligations to the Group.
their day-to-day banking needs and to arises from the default of wholesale and the risk during the year through, for example, the application of tailoring our products to meet their retail loans and advances particularly in a mandate and scale limits.
When a customer does experience financial Citizenship requirements.
difficulties the Group may assist by offering a forbearance programme which is structured to be appropriate to the nature and expected Company duration of the their distress.
It aims to provide the customer with a sustainable programme to help return them to good financial health.
Market risk The reduction to earnings or capital due To provide a range of execution and risk Extreme market events have the potential We have built a business centred on client needs as opposed to the to volatility of trading book positions or management services across all the major to create large losses.
pursuit of profits from price changes and our well embedded stress Customers & Clients an inability to hedge the banking book traded product classes.
testing framework helps ensure our portfolio is not overly exposed to balance sheet.
Company Funding risk Failure to maintain capital ratios and To maintain high levels of quality capital to If we cannot forecast our future capital Capital planning is a significant component of our stress testing Customers & Clients liquidity obligations could lead to an ensure we have the financial strength to needs accurately, for instance because of framework.
The adequacy of all categories of capital are tested under inability to support normal business continue supporting customers and clients, unforeseen regulatory actions or unexpected severe economic and market scenarios, including consideration of activity and meet liquidity regulatory be it lending to creditworthy small losses, a funding shortfall may occur.
business losses, and the availability of funds in the market according to Citizenship requirements.
businesses or arranging the financing of different scenarios.
Mitigation plans are developed based on this analysis.
Company Operational risk Losses or costs resulting from human To provide our personal customers with 24 7 Criminals are constantly searching for Our Fraud Risk management team works to ensure we keep ahead of factors, inadequate or failed internal access to the widest range of account facilities ways to perpetrate fraud against Barclays fraudsters by investing in technology, and ensuring we support clients Customers & Clients processes and systems or external events.
to enable them to pursue their financial goals, and its customers.
whenever they want and wherever.
Citizenship Conduct risk Detriment caused to our customers, We seek to provide customers with products In pursuit of business, products may be We have developed a suitability framework that clarifies the criteria that Customers & Clients clients, counterparties, or the Bank and that are tailored to their changing needs and sold to customers and clients that are must be followed before a product is considered suitable for a its employees because of inappropriate the evolving financial landscape.
unsuitable because of inadequate customer or client.
It ensures that management and their teams judgement in the execution of our complexity, liquidity or other factors.
consider how customers needs may change in the future under Colleague business activities.
Conduct Reputation risk Damage to Barclays brand arising from We aim to become the Go-To bank for The negative events that have beset As part of our plan to become the Go-To bank, the Transform Customers & Clients any association, action or inaction which customers and all stakeholders.
Barclays and the banking industry in past Programme places significant emphasis on values.
All members of staff is perceived by stakeholders to be years could recur if we failed to identify and have received extensive training and senior management aim to inappropriate or unethical.
pro-actively mitigate the risk of failure to act embody our new values in everything they do.
These values are being Citizenship in accordance with our purpose and values.
embedded in all of the banks activities.
Conduct 16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Principal Risk Objective Example of a significant risk taken in pursuit of the objective Examples of how Barclays mitigates the risk and how this primarily contributes to our scorecard Credit risk The suffering of financial loss should any We are committed to supporting all our The credit risk that the Group faces from The Group sets out the level of risk it is prepared to accept through the Customers & Clients of our customers not fulfil their contractual customers, counterparties and clients in providing services to customers mainly risk appetite agreed by the Board and closely monitors and manages obligations to the Group.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 17
