Risk management Capital risk management Our approach to capital risk management Overview We adopt a forward-looking, risk based approach to Capital Risk Management.
Capital demand and supply is actively managed on a Capital risk is the risk that the Group has centralised basis, at a business level, at a local entity level and on a insufficient capital resources to: regional basis taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which Barclays operates.
Meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other jurisdictions such as the United Capital planning States and South Africa where regulated Capital forecasts are managed on a top-down and bottom-up analysis activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority through both short-term monthly for year 1 and medium-term 3 year financial planning cycles.
Barclays capital plans are developed to operate as a bank is dependent upon the with the objective of maintaining capital that is adequate in quantity maintenance of adequate capital resources: and quality to support the approved risk profile and business needs, including our Transform financial commitments.
As a result, the Group Support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating holds a diversified pool of capital resources that provides strong loss would increase the Groups cost of funds: and absorbing capacity and optimised returns.
Support its growth and strategic options.
Capital planning also includes managing capital against leverage targets.
These requirements are being developed by the Basel Committee and by national regulators.
The Group is required to meet the PRAs leverage requirements calculated on a PRA adjusted CET1 capital base plus qualifying Additional Tier 1 capital using CRD IV leverage exposure.
Barclays capital plans are continually monitored against relevant internal target capital ratios to ensure they remain appropriate, and consider risks to the plan including possible future regulatory changes.
These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated Local management ensures compliance with an entitys minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local asset and liability committees with oversight by the Groups Capital Committee, as Overview audited required.
Capital Management is integral to the Groups approach to financial Target ratios stability and sustainability management and is therefore embedded in The Groups capital plan and target ratios are set in consideration of the way our businesses and legal entities operate.
Our Capital CRD IV, and draft Recovery and Resolution Directive RRD Management strategy is driven by the strategic aims of the Group and requirements.
The target capital structure expected to be achieved the risk appetite set by the Board.
during the course of 2015 in consideration of these requirements and the Transform commitments anticipate a target: Our objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management practices: Fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio of 10.5% comprising of an expected 4.5% regulatory minimum CET1 ratio requirement leading to a 9.0% Primary objectives Core practices regulatory target CET1 ratio including Conservation and Global Provide a viable and sustainable Maintain a capital and leverage Systemic buffers but excluding Pillar 2A and counter-cyclical buffer business offering by plan on a short-term and and a 1.5% CET1 internal management buffer: maintaining adequate capital to medium-term basis aligned with cover the Groups current and strategic objectives 1.5% Additional Tier 1 layer excluding Pillar 2A : and forecast business needs and Meet minimum regulatory 5.0% Tier 2 debt capital to meet a internal target 17% total capital associated risks requirements at all times in the ratio.
UK and in all other jurisdictions that the Group operates in, such In addition to Barclays end state capital structure, target ratios have as the United States and South also been set in respect of the PRAs leverage ratio expectation of 3.0% Africa where regulated activities applicable from June 2014. are undertaken Ensure the Group and legal Perform Group-wide internal and Capital allocation entities maintain adequate regulatory stress tests Capital allocations are approved by the Group Executive Committee capital to withstand the impact Maintain capital buffers over and monitored by the Treasury Committee, taking into consideration of the risks that may arise regulatory minimums the risk appetite, growth and strategic aims of the Group.
Barclays Bank under the stressed conditions Develop contingency plans for PLC BBPLC is the primary source of capital to its legal entities.
analysed by the Group severe stress management Regulated legal entities are, at a minimum, allocated adequate capital actions and extreme stress tests to meet their current and forecast regulatory and business recovery actions requirements.
Support a strong credit rating Maintain capital and leverage ratios aligned with rating agency expectations 420 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk identification Governance Capital demand is assessed and quantified for credit, market, The Group and legal entity capital plans are underpinned by the Capital operational, interest rate risk on the banking book, pension obligation Management Framework, which includes the capital management risk and securitisation risks, in line with the PRAs regulatory policies and practices approved by the Capital Committee.
implemented consistently and aimed at delivering on the Group objectives.
Barclays Treasury works closely with Group Risk, businesses and legal entities to support a proactive approach to identifying sources of Group Treasury Committee and the Board approve the Group capital capital ratio volatilities which are incorporated in the Groups capital plan, stress tests and Recovery Plan.
The Group Treasury Committee plan.
Capital risks against firm-specific and macroeconomic early also manages compliance with the Groups capital management warning indicators are monitored and reported to the Treasury objectives and reviews actual and forecast capital demand and Committee, associated with clear escalation channels to Senior resources on a monthly basis.
The Board Financial Risk Committee Management.
annually reviews risk appetite and then analyses the impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital forecast see pages 70 to 72 in order to Stress testing understand and manage the Groups projected capital adequacy.
Internal stress testing is undertaken to quantify and understand the impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital ratios, arising Resources from 1 in 7 year and 1 in 25 year stresses.
Actual recent economic, Global teams operate in accordance with the Groups policies and market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the procedures, having direct access to local regulators and businesses in assumptions of the stress tests and assess the effectiveness of order to support individual capital management at a legal entity level.
Senior Management awareness and transparency The Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the PRA and ECB.
Capital ratios, early warning indicators and movements in capital Legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local regulators.
demand and supply are reported to Group Treasury Committee These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality of capital monthly.
buffer required and the results are incorporated into the Group capital plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal and severe, but Capital management information is readily available at all times to plausible stressed conditions.
support the Executive Managements strategic and day-to-day business decision making, as may be required.
Risk mitigation As part of the stress testing process actions are identified that should The Group submits its Board approved ICAAP document to the PRA on be taken to mitigate risks that could arise in the event of material an annual basis, which forms the basis of the Individual Capital adverse changes in the current economic and business outlook.
Guidance ICG set by the PRA.
As an additional layer of protection, the Barclays Recovery Plan defines Pillar 3 disclosures are approved by the Board and publicly available as the actions and implementation strategies available for the Group to a separate document in line with the Basel 3 and PRA requirements.
increase or preserve capital resources in the event that stress events are more extreme than anticipated.
In addition, the strong regulatory focus Ongoing capital management risks on resolvability has continued in 2013, from both UK and international Capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements regulators.
The Group continues to work with the authorities on The Group has capital resources and RWAs denominated in foreign recovery and resolution planning RRP, and the detailed practicalities currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the of the resolution process, including the provision of information that GBP equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital would be required in the event of a resolution, so as to enhance resources and RWAs.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios Barclays resolvability a Citizenship commitment made in May 2012. are sensitive to foreign currency movements.
Transferability of capital The Groups capital ratio management strategy is to minimise the The Groups policy is for surplus capital held in Group entities to be volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate repatriated to BBPLC in the form of dividends and or capital movements.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, exchange foreign currency CET 1, Tier 1 and Total capital resources to foreign controls and tax implications.
This approach provides optimal flexibility currency RWAs the same as the Groups consolidated capital ratios.
on the redeployment of capital across legal entities.
The Group is not aware of any material impediments to the prompt transfer of capital The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches, resources, in line with the above policy, or repayment of intra-group to the extent that they are not hedged for foreign exchange liabilities when due.
movements, translate into GBP upon consolidation creating CET1 capital resources sensitive to foreign currency movements.
Changes in the GBP value of the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.
To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional to the CET1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt capital in non-GBP currencies.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC in USD and EUR, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies, such as Barclays Africa Group Limited in South Africa.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 421 422 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Shareholder information Contents Resources for shareholders including a summary of the Company Articles of Association and contact details for Shareholder enquiries.
Shareholder information 424 Shareholder enquiries 428 Index 429 Your Barclays shareholding 433 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 423
