The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk management Market risk management Overview Introduction to the management of market risk Traded market risk overview audited Traded market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in Barclays definition of market risk wholesale markets, involving market making activities, risk Market risk is the risk of the Groups earnings or management solutions and execution of syndications.
Upon execution of a trade with a client, Barclays will look to hedge against the risk of capital being reduced due to: the trade moving in an adverse direction.
Mismatches between client The Group being impacted by changes in the transactions and hedges result in market risk due to changes in asset prices.
level or volatility of positions in its trading books.
This includes changes in the interest Non-traded market risk overview audited rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity Barclays banking book operations generate non-traded market risk, prices and foreign exchange levels traded primarily through interest rate risk arising from the sensitivity of net interest margins to changes in interest rates.
Banking businesses, such market risk.
as RBB or Corporate Banking, engage in internal derivative trades with Treasury to remove this interest rate risk, however, the businesses The Group being unable to hedge its banking remain susceptible to market risk from three key sources: book balance sheet at prevailing market levels Prepayment risk: Balance run-off may be faster or slower than non-traded market risk.
expected due to economic conditions or customers response to The Groups defined benefit obligations interest rates.
This can lead to a mismatch between the anticipated balance of products provided to customers and the hedges executed increasing or the value of the assets backing with Treasury: these defined benefit obligations decreasing Recruitment risk: The volume of new business may be lower or due to changes in both the level and volatility higher than expected requiring the business to unwind or execute of prices pension risk.
hedging transactions with Treasury at different rates than expected: and Each of the above has been identified by Residual risk and margin compression: The business may retain a Barclays management as key risks underlying small element of interest rate risk to facilitate the day-to-day the principal risk: market risk.
Additionally, in the current low rate environment, Barclays managed rate deposits are exposed to margin compression.
This is because for any further fall in base rate Barclays must absorb an increasing amount of the rate move in its margin.
Barclays banking operations also generate non-traded market risk through the sensitivity of balance sheet items to movements in market levels, primarily foreign exchange and interest rates.
These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated Pension risk overview audited Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees.
The ability of the pension fund to meet the projected pension payments is maintained principally through investments.
Pension risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension fund assets might decline: or their investment returns might reduce: or the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
Barclays monitors the market risks arising from its defined benefit pension schemes, and works with the trustees to address shortfalls.
In these circumstances, Barclays could be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
The Groups main defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants in 2012.
Organisation and structure Traded risk in the businesses resides primarily in the Investment Bank, while non-traded market risk resides mainly in Retail and Business Banking, Corporate Banking, Wealth and Investment Management and Treasury.
Pension risk is monitored centrally with the cost borne across businesses.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 405 Risk management Market risk management continued Overview of the business market risk control structure Group Market Risk Director Risk type Traded Non-traded Pension Commodity risk Interest rate risk Interest rate risk Discount rate risk Inflation risk Spread risk Foreign exchange risk Inflation risk Traded credit risk Currency risk Asset management risk Asset value risk Basis risk Equity risk... managed by Investment Bank Retail and Business Banking Pension Fund Trustees and Corporate Banking Barclays central functions Wealth and Investment Management Absa Treasury with oversight and challenge provided by Market Risk Committee and Traded products risk review Absa Market Risk Committee Pension management group Investment Committee Treasury Committee Pension Executive Board Conformance reviews Treasury Hedge Committee Asset and Liability Committees New product sign-off process Conformance reviews Roles and responsibilities The head of each business is accountable for all market risks The objectives of Barclays market risk management is to: associated with its activities.
The head of the market risk team covering each business is responsible for implementing the risk control understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit framework for market risk.
The control frameworks for traded, setting, reporting and oversight: non-traded and pensions risk are all governed by the Market Risk facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk Control Framework, which sets out how market risk should be management framework: identified, measured, controlled, reported and reviewed.
The Framework also outlines and references Group Market Risk policies.
ensure that traded market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Investment Bank including Absa CIBW: and Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business minimise non-traded market risk.
committees, Group committees, including the Market Risk Committee and Group Market Risk.
The chart above gives an overview of the To ensure the above objectives are met, Barclays has a well established business control structure.
governance structure in place, whereby the risks are identified, assessed, controlled and reported on throughout the organisation.
Risk management in the setting of strategy Appetite for market risk is recommended by the risk function, to be The Board Financial Risk Committee BFRC reviews and approves agreed by BFRC.
Mandate and scales are set to control levels of market market risk appetite for the group.
The Group Market Risk Director is risk and ensure the Group remains within risk appetite.
The Group runs responsible for the Barclays Market Risk Control Framework and, under an annual Group-wide stress testing exercise which aims to simulate delegated authority from the Group Chief Risk Officer, sets a limit the dynamics of exposures across Barclays Group and cover all risk framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
The exercise is also designed to measure the impact to Barclays fundamental business plan, and is used to manage the wider The Market Risk Committee approves and makes recommendations Groups strategy.
concerning the market risk profile across Barclays Group.
This includes approving the Barclays Market Risk Control Framework and Group See page 385 for more detail on the role of risk in the setting of Market Risk Policies: reviewing arising market or regulatory issues, strategy.
limits and utilisation: and proposing risk appetite levels to the Board.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Market Risk Director and Market risk culture attendees include the Group Chief Risk Officer, respective business The Investment Bank risk function, which includes the market risk aligned risk managers and senior managers from Group Market Risk as function, reports directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer, in line with the well as Internal Audit.
Market risk managers are independent from the businesses they serve which embeds a risk culture with strong adherence to limits that support Group wide risk appetite.
See page 378 for more detail on Barclays risk culture.
406 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Traded market risk measurement management view Management of traded market risk Market risk management measures Barclays governance structure helps ensure all market risks that the Barclays uses a range of complementary approaches to measure traded Group is exposed to are well managed and understood.
market risk which aim to capture the level of losses that the Investment Bank is exposed to due to unfavourable changes in asset prices.
The Traded market risk is generated primarily as a result of market making primary tools to control the firms exposures are: activities, syndications and providing structured risk management solutions to clients at Barclays Investment Bank only.
The Investment Bank also manages the Interest Rate risks for other businesses through the Group Treasury function.
Positions will contribute both to market risk limits and regulatory capital if relevant.
Measure Description Management Value at Risk VaR An estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
Primary stress tests An estimate of potential losses that might arise from extreme market moves or scenarios to key liquid risk factors.
Secondary stress tests Modelled losses to unfavourable market movements to illiquid market risk exposures.
Combined scenario stresses Multi asset scenario analysis of extreme, but plausible events that may impact the market risk exposures of the Investment Bank.
Barclays use of Management VaR for traded market risk is broader Management VaR than the application for use of VaR for regulatory capital and captures Estimates the potential loss arising from unfavourable market standardised, advanced and certain banking books where traded movements.
market risks are deemed to exist.
The wider scope of Management VaR Management VaR differs from the Regulatory VaR used for capital is what Barclays deems as material market risk exposures which may purposes.
have a detrimental impact on the performance of the investment bank.
The scope used in Regulatory VaR see page 409 applies only to Backtesting performed to ensure model is fit for purpose.
trading book positions as defined by the PRA which is a narrower scope.
VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements if the current positions were to be held unchanged Stress testing and scenario analysis are also an important part of the for one business day.
For internal market risk management purposes, risk management framework, to capture potential risk that may arise in the Investment Bank uses a historical simulation methodology with a severe but plausible events.
two-year equally weighted historical period, at the 95% confidence level for all trading books and some banking books.
VaR is split by risk factor as summarised below: Risk factor Description Interest rate Changes in the level of interest rates can impact prices of interest rate sensitive assets, such as bonds and derivative instruments, for example, Interest Rate Swaps.
Spread risk Spread Risk difference between bond yields and swap rates arises when the business has positions in both bonds and derivative instruments: both assets may trade at different levels but are fundamentally exposed to similar risk.
Foreign exchange risk The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and volatilities.
Investment Bank may be exposed to adverse or favourable movements in FX prices e. g. movement of FX trade after entering into a forward rate FX contract.
Equity risk Market risk may arise due to changes in equity prices, volatilities and dividend yields, for example, the Investment Bank is exposed to this risk as part of its market making activities, syndication or underwriting Initial Public Offerings.
Commodity risk Commodity risk arises primarily from the Investment Banks commodities businesses, who provide hedging solutions to clients and access to financial investors.
Inflation risk The impact of changes in inflation rates and volatilities on cash instruments and derivatives.
This arises as part of market making activities, whereby Investment Bank may be exposed to changes in inflation rates, for example, market making syndications for inflation linked securities.
Credit risk The market risk that arises from the uncertainty of credit quality impacting prices of assets, for example, positions such as Corporate Bonds, Securitised products and derivative instruments, for example, Credit Default Swaps provide market risk exposure.
Basis risk The impact of changes in interest rate tenor basis e. g. the basis between swaps vs. 3M LIBOR and swaps.
6M LIBOR and cross currency basis and is primarily generated as a result of market making activities.
In some instances, historical data is not available for particular market The output of the Management VaR model can be readily tested risk factors for the entire lookback period, for example, complete through backtesting process.
Backtesting checks instances where historical data would not be available for an equity following an Initial actual losses exceed the predicted potential loss estimated by the VaR Public Offering.
In these cases, market risk managers will proxy the model.
If the number of instances is too high, where actual losses unavailable market risk factor data with available data for a related exceed the predicted potential loss estimated by the VaR model, this market risk factor.
could indicate limitations with the VaR calculation, for example, the calculation is not capturing certain market risk factors.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 407 Risk management Market risk management continued The Management VaR model in some instances may not appropriately Primary stresses apply moves to liquid assets incorporating up to a few measure some market risk exposures, especially for market moves that days holding period.
Shock scenarios are determined by a combination are not directly observable via prices.
Market risk managers are of observed extreme historical moves and forward looking elements as required to identify risks which are not adequately captured in VaR appropriate.
RNIVs can be of two varieties: Primary stresses are calculated for each asset class on a standalone Non VaR-type RNIVs: Represents a risk which would not be well basis.
Risk managers calculate several stress scenarios and publish captured by any VaR model either because it represents an event not results to senior managers to highlight concentrations and the level of historically observed e. g. currency peg break or a market risk factor exposures.
Primary stress loss limits are applied across the Investment which is not seen to move frequently e. g. correlation.
Bank and is a key market risk control.
VaR-type RNIVs: Represents risks that are not captured in VaR, mainly because of infrastructure limitations or methodology limitations.
Secondary stress tests Key tool used by management to measure illiquid market risks from Risk managers estimate RNIVs on a regular basis to improve the extreme market movements or scenarios in each major trading asset accuracy of the VaR capture model.
When reviewing VaR estimates, the following considerations should be Secondary stress tests are used in measuring potential losses arising taken into account: from illiquid market risks that cannot be hedged or reduced within the The historical simulation uses the most recent two years of past data time period covered in primary stress tests.
Therefore, the extended to generate possible future market moves, but the past may not be a holding period under stress may compound the estimated losses under good indicator of the future: a stressed environment which is a more conservative assumption.
These may relate to financial instruments or risk exposures which are The one day time horizon may not fully capture the market risk of not readily or easily tradable or markets that are naturally sensitive to a positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day: rapid deterioration in market conditions.
VaR is based on positions as at close of business and consequently, it is not an appropriate measure for intra-day risk arising from a For each asset class, secondary stresses are aggregated to a single position bought and sold on the same day: and stress loss which allows the business to manage its liquid and illiquid risk factors.
Limits against secondary stress losses are also applied, VaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the VaR confidence which allows the firm to manage and control the level of illiquid risk level.
Limits are applied at the total Investment Bank level as well as by risk Stresses are specific to the exposure held and are calibrated on both factor type, which are then cascaded down to particular trading desks observed extreme moves and some forward looking elements as and businesses by the market risk management function.
See page 192 for a review of Management VaR in 2013.
Combined scenario stresses Key tool used by management to measure aggregated losses across Primary stress tests the entire trading book as a result of extreme forward looking Key tool used by management to measure liquid market risks from scenarios encompassing simultaneous shocks to multiple asset extreme market movements or scenarios in each major trading asset classes.
The combined scenario stresses apply simultaneous shocks to several Stress testing provides an estimate of potential significant future losses risk factors assessed by applying respective changes in foreign that might arise from extreme market moves or scenarios.
Primary exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, commodities and equities stress tests apply stress moves to key liquid risk factors for each of the to the entire portfolio, for example, the impact of a rapid and extreme major trading asset classes, namely: slowdown in the global economy.
The measure shows results on a Interest rates shock to the level and structure of interest rates and multi-asset basis across all Investment Banking trading exposures.
inflation across currencies: Combined scenarios are a useful tool in identifying concentrations of exposures and highlighting areas that may provide some Credit impact on traded corporate credit exposures, including diversification.
across rating grades, geography, sectors and products: Foreign exchange impact of unfavourable moves in currency prices The estimated impact on market risk exposures are calculated and and volatility: reported by the market risk management function on a weekly basis.
The stress scenario and the calibration on the shocks are also reviewed Equity shocks to share prices including exposures to specific by market risk managers periodically for its relevance considering any geographies, products and sectors: market environment.
Emerging Markets stresses across specific countries including corporate and sovereign credit, interest rates and currency shocks: Scenarios such as a global recession, deterioration in the availability of liquidity and contagion effects of a slowdown in one of the major Commodities adverse commodity price changes across both economies are examples of combined scenarios.
If necessary, market physical and derivative markets: and event specific scenarios are also calculated, such as, an unfavourable Securitised Products stresses to securitised structures and outcome of a US debt ceiling negotiation and the impact of a disorderly associated hedges.
exit of quantitative easing programmes.
See page 194 for a review of combined scenario stresses in 2013.
408 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Traded market risk measurement regulatory view CRD III and the PRAs Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Regulatory view of traded positions Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU.
Positions which cannot be For regulatory purposes, the trading book is defined as one that included in the trading book are included within the banking book and consists of all positions in CRD financial instruments and commodities generate risk capital requirements in line with this treatment.
held either with trading intent or in order to hedge other elements of trading and which are either free of any restrictive covenants on their Regulatory measurements are not used for market risk management tradability or able to be hedged.
A CRD financial instrument is defined purposes due to the scope and model assumptions.
as a contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one party and a financial liability or equity instrument of another party.
Regulatory measures for traded market risk There are a number of regulatory measures which Barclays has All of the below regulatory measures, including the standardised permission to use in calculating regulatory capital internal models approach, generate market risk capital requirement, in line with the approval.
These are listed below: regulatory requirements set out in the Capital Requirements Directive Measure Definition Regulatory Value at Risk VaR An estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements calibrated to 99% confidence interval 10 day holding period.
Stressed Value at Risk SVaR An estimate of the potential loss arising from a 12 month period of significant financial stress over a 10 day holding period.
Incremental Risk Charge IRC An estimate of the incremental risk arising from rating migrations and defaults, beyond what is already captured in specific market risk VaR for the non correlation trading portfolio.
All Price Risk APR An estimate of all the material market risk, including rating migration and default for the correlation trading portfolio.
Regulatory VaR Estimates the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements.
Regulatory VaR differs from the management approach VaR Variable Regulatory Management Confidence interval 99% 95% Scope As approved by the Regulator PRA Barclays management view of market risk exposures.
Includes trading books and banking books exposed to price risk Look-back period 2 years 2 years Liquidity Horizon 10 days 1 day Regulatory VaR allows oversight of the total potential losses, at a given The SVaR model is required to be identical to the VaR model used by confidence level, of those trading books which received approval from Barclays, with the exception that the SVaR model must be calibrated to the regulator to be covered via an internal model.
Regulatory VaR levels a one-year period of significant financial stress the SVaR period.
contribute to the calculation of the Market Risk RWAs.
Barclays selects the SVaR period to be a one-year period that maximises the sum of general market risk Regulatory VaR and specific Management VaR allows the bank to supervise the total risk within market risk Regulatory VaR for positions in scope of regulatory Investment bank, including the trading book and some banking books.
The SVaR period is reviewed on a quarterly basis or when Management VaR is also utilised for internal capital model economic required by material changes in market conditions or the trading capital.
Regulatory VaR is fundamentally the same as the Management VaR SVaR cannot be meaningfully backtested and is not sensitive to current see page 407, with the key differences listed above.
market conditions and consequently, it is more difficult to use SVaR as a direct risk management tool as compared to VaR.
Many market risk The model includes RNIVs, as described on page 408. factors with complete historical data over a two year period may not have complete data covering the SVaR period and consequently, more Stressed Value at Risk SVaR proxies may be required for SVaR than for VaR.
The SVaR metric itself Estimates the potential loss arising from unfavourable market has the same strengths and weaknesses as the Groups VaR model.
movements in a stressed environment: Incremental Risk Charge IRC Identical to Regulatory VaR, but calibrated over a one year stressed Captures risk arising from rating migrations and defaults for traded period: and debt instruments incremental to that already captured by Regulatory Regulatory capital is allocated to individual businesses, but not VaR and SVaR.
actively used by management to set limits on traded market risk.
As part of CRD III, Barclays was required to introduce IRC to capture the As part of CRD III, Barclays is required to compute a market risk capital risk arising from ratings migrations or defaults in the traded credit requirement based on a 10 day, 99% VaR metric calibrated to a period portfolio.
IRC measures this risk at a 99.9% confidence level with a one of significant financial stress.
This Stressed VaR SVaR capital year holding period and applies to all positions in scope for specific risk requirement is added to the market risk capital requirement arising including sovereign exposure.
from Regulatory VaR, the Incremental Risk Charge and the All Price Risk on an undiversified basis.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 409 Risk management Market risk management continued Barclays IRC model simulates default and ratings transition events for Barclays APR model is based on the IRC model but also captures individual names.
The behaviour of names is correlated with one market risks not related to transition or default events, such as another to simulate a systemic factor to model the possibility of movements in credit spreads or correlations.
These risk factors are multiple downgrades or defaults.
The correlations between nonincluded as part of the Monte Carlo simulation using distributions sovereign names are based on the Basel-defined correlations stipulated calibrated to historically observed moves.
in the Internal Ratings Based approach to measuring credit risk capital, with a fixed correlation between sovereign names.
Regulatory traded risk measurements summary Barclays maintains a Trading Book Policy Statement TBPS which Barclays IRC model simulates the impact of a ratings transition by defines the minimum requirements a business must meet to run estimating the improvement or deterioration in credit spreads resulting trading positions and the process by which positions are allocated to from the transition and assumes that the historically observed average trading or banking books.
Trading intent is a key element in deciding change in credit spreads measured in relative terms resulting from whether a position should be treated as a trading or banking book ratings transitions provides an accurate estimate of likely widening or exposure.
tightening of credit spreads in future transitions.
For each position, the model computes the impact of spread moves up or down at preCurrently all trading books must be managed by either Investment specified relative movements in spread and the actual impact is Bank or separately by Absa CIBW.
Businesses with trading books are obtained by interpolating or extrapolating the actual spread move from required to document their implementation of trading book standards these pre-computed values.
which define how the Barclays-wide TBPS requirements will be implemented.
In particular, businesses are expected to evidence trading Barclays IRC model assumes that ratings transitions, defaults and any intent, for example, by setting and enforcing risk and position limits spread increases occur on an instantaneous basis.
Consequently there and defining the consequences of breaching these limits.
is no need to model a reduction in duration or roll off of positions over the one year horizon.
Positions in the trading book are subject to market risk capital, computed using models where regulatory approval has been granted, All Price Risk APR otherwise the market risk capital requirement is calculated using Captures all market risks affecting the correlation trading portfolio.
standard rules as defined by the PRA in BIPRU.
If any of the criteria specified in the TBPS are not met for a position, then that position must APR covers the correlation trading portfolio and is intended to capture be allocated to the banking book.
all risk factors relevant to corporate nth-to-default on a basket of referenced names and tranched credit derivatives.
The capital Most of Barclays market risk regulatory models are assigned the requirement is based on a 99.9% confidence interval over a one year highest model materiality rating of A. Consequently, the Regulatory holding period.
The model generates a scenario based on a Monte VaR model is subject to annual re-approval at the Executive Models Carlo simulation and revalues the portfolio under the simulated market Committee EMC, which is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer scenario.
The model captures the following risk factors in the credit and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
EMC considers evidence of correlation portfolio: model suitability provided by the model owner, as well as an independent validation conducted by the Group Centre Independent Default and ratings migration over a one year time horizon Validation Unit.
The following table summarises the models used for Credit spread volatility market risk regulatory purposes and the applicable regulatory thresholds.
Recovery risk uncertainty of the recoverable value under default Correlation risk Basis risk basis between credit indices and its underlying constituents Hedge slippage portfolio rebalancing assumption Number of significant models and Component modelled size of associated portfolio RWAs Model description and methodology Applicable regulatory thresholds Regulatory VaR 1 model: 5.0bn Equally-weighted historical simulation Regulatory VaR is computed with 10 day of potential daily P&L arising from holding period and 99% confidence level market moves SVaR 1 model: 9.9bn Same methodology as used for VaR Regulatory SVaR is computed with 10 day model holding period and 99% confidence level IRC 1 model: 2.1bn Monte Carlo simulation of P&L arising IRC is computed with one year holding from ratings migrations and defaults period and 99.9% confidence level APR 1 model: 1.0bn Monte Carlo simulation of P&L arising APR is computed with one year holding from ratings migrations and defaults period and 99.9% confidence level.
and market-driven movements in As required in CRD III, the APR charge is spreads and correlations subject to a floor set with reference to standard rules charge See page 194 for a review of regulatory measures in 2013.
410 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Regulatory Backtesting A backtesting exception is generated when a loss is greater than the Backtesting is the method by which Barclays checks and affirms that its daily VaR for any given day.
procedures for estimating VaR are reasonable and serve its purpose of estimating the potential loss arising from unfavourable market As defined by the PRA, a green model is consistent with a good movements.
Barclays backtesting process is a regulatory requirement working VaR model and is achieved for models that have four or fewer and seeks to estimate the performance of the regulatory VaR model if it backtesting exceptions in a 12-month period.
Backtesting counts the had been employed in prior periods.
Performance is measured by the number of days when a loss as defined by the PRA exceeds the number of exceptions to the model i. e. net trading P&L loss in one corresponding VaR estimate, measured at the 99% regulatory trading day is greater than the estimated VaR for the same trading day.
For the Investment Banks VaR model, green model If exceptions occur regularly a 99% confidence interval indicates that status was maintained for 2013. one exception will occur in 100 days, Barclays procedures could be underestimating VaR.
Backtesting is also performed on management VaR to ensure it remains reasonable and fit for purpose.
Backtesting is performed at a legal entity level and at sub-portfolio levels on Barclays regulatory VaR model.
Regulatory backtesting The table below shows the VaR backtesting exceptions in 2013.
A compares Regulatory VaR at 99% confidence level 1 day holding backtesting exception is generated when a loss is greater than the VaR period equivalent to a clean and hypothetical P&L as defined in BIPRU for a given day.
The consolidated Barclays Bank Plc and Barclays Capital Securities Ltd is the highest level of consolidation for the VaR models that are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Regulatory portfolios Total exceptions Status Equities 3 Green Commodities 3 Green Foreign Exchange 3 Green Credit Correlation 2 Green Fixed Income Rates 2 Green Emerging Markets excluding credit 2 Green Credit Support Annex Aware Discounting Valuation 1 Green Treasury 0 Green Client Capital Management 0 Green Fixed Income Credit 0 Green Emerging Markets Credit 0 Green Counterparty Risk Trading Single Name Trading 0 Green barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 411 Risk management Market risk management continued The charts below show VaR for Barclays regulatory portfolios where at least one exception has occurred during 2013.
The black lines indicate losses on the small number of days on which they exceeded the VaR amount.
Equities m Commodities m 0 0 -10 -10 -20 DVaR DVaR -30 Backtesting Exception -20 Backtesting Exception JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec 2013 2013 Foreign Exchange m Credit Correlation m 0 0 -10 -5 DVaR DVaR -20 Backtesting Exception -10 Backtesting Exception JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec 2013 2013 Fixed Income Rates m Emerging Markets excluding credit m 0 0 -10 -10 -20 -20 DVaR DVaR -30 Backtesting Exception -30 Backtesting Exception JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec 2013 2013 Credit Support Annex Aware Discounting Valuation m 0 -10 -20 DVaR -30 Backtesting Exception JanFeb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep OctNov Dec 2013 Typical drivers of the exceptions shown above are as follow: Traded Market Risk Control The metrics that Barclays use to measure market risk are controlled Exceptional market moves, outside the confidence level at which the through the use of appropriate limit framework.
Limits are set at the model operates, for example, the market volatility caused by the total Investment Bank portfolio level, risk factor level, for example, Federal Reserve tapering announcement.
interest rate risk, and at business level, for example, Emerging Markets.
Risks which are not captured in VaR for more information on RNIVs Stress limits and many book limits, such as foreign exchange and see page 408. interest rate sensitivity limits, are also used to control risk appetite.
Exceptions are reported to internal management and regulators on a The BFRC ratified firm wide limits are termed A-level limits for total regular basis and exceptions are investigated to ensure the model management VaR, risk factor VaR, primary stress and secondary performs as expected.
These are then cascaded down by risk managers in order to meet the firm wide risk appetite.
412 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Each A-level limit is set after consideration is given to revenue Traded market risk reporting generation opportunities and overall risk appetite approved by the Investment Bank market risk managers produce a number of detailed Board.
Compliance with limits is monitored by the independent Risk and summary market risk reports daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly function in the Investment Bank with oversight provided by Group for business and risk managers.
These are sent to Group Market Risk Market Risk.
for review and a risk summary is presented at the Market Risk Committee and the Investment Banks Traded Positions Risk Review.
Throughout 2013, Group Market Risk continued its ongoing The overall market risk profile is also presented to BFRC on a regular programme of conformance reviews on the Investment Banks market basis.
These reviews are intended to verify the businesss conformance with Barclays Market Risk Control Framework Management of non-traded market risk and best practices.
Non-Traded Risk Measurement Barclays uses a range of complementary technical approaches to measure non-traded market risk.
Summary of measures for non-traded market risk Measure Definition Annual Earnings at Risk Impact on earnings of a parallel upward or downward movement in interest rates.
Economic Value of Equity EVE Change in the present value of the banking book of a parallel upward or downward interest rate shock.
Economic Capital Economic Capital EC is held to protect against unexpected loss in excess of expected loss and calculated over a one year time horizon.
Value at Risk VaR An estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for a set period of time.
Stress Testing Scenario based stress testing using a variety of economic parameters to quantify the impact to P&L and the Balance Sheet under various levels of stress.
The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an Economic Capital for recruitment, prepayment and residual risk income metric Annual Earnings at Risk and value metrics Economic Economic Capital EC consistent models are used to measure Value of Equity, Economic Capital and VaR.
unexpected losses to a 99.98% confidence interval over a 1 year period which reflects the level of confidence consistent with the Banks target Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR AA rating.
Within non-traded risk, this measure aims to capture AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest income over the next one recruitment risk, prepayment risk and residual risk for banking book year period.
It is calculated as the difference between the estimated products see page 196.
EC metrics typically measure variations in income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income economic value from specific sources of risk, for example, prepayment following a parallel increase or decrease in interest rates 200bps, risk EC for fixed rate mortgages predicts the cost of hedging to reduce subject to a minimum interest rate of 0%.
200bp shocks are consistent any mismatch exposure resulting from the impact of an interest rate with industry best practise and supported by banking regulators.
shock on customer prepayment levels.
The main model assumptions are: EC is used in the active management of the banking book.
Limits are set against EC metrics and breaches trigger mitigating actions to The balance sheet is kept at the current level i. e. no growth is reduce exposure to appropriate levels.
EC modelling is typically applied assumed: and only to fixed rate products and the majority of variable rate and Balances are adjusted for an assumed behavioural profile.
This administered rate portfolios are not subject to an EC measure.
includes the treatment of fixed rate loans including mortgages.
As part of the Groups risk appetite and limit framework, limits are set AEaR is applied to the entire banking book, including the liquidity buffer by product and portfolio for the three EC categories across each and trades to hedge against non-traded market risk.
Each business unit, in line with Treasury, is tasked with provides a measure of how interest rate risk may impact the Groups managing the risk to within the levels that in practise involves ensuring Profit & Loss, providing a simple comparison between risk and returns.
any required pre or post hedging takes place in a timely fashion to The main disadvantage of the metric is its short term focus, as it only minimise recruitment and residual risk.
measures the impact on a position in the first 12 months.
In order to counter this, the Group has implemented additional Economic Value An advantage of EC is that it can calculate unexpected losses to an risk metrics.
appropriate degree of confidence given the nature of the risks and covers sources of loss beyond the scope of other models for instance, See page 195 for a review of AEaR in 2013.
AEaR only covers income changes over a one year period: EVE only considers existing business and does not include any dynamic Economic Value of Equity EVE customer behaviour assumptions.
The main weaknesses come from Economic Value of Equity EVE calculates the change in the present necessary simplifying assumptions.
In the case of models based on value of the banking book for a parallel upward and downward interest statistical confidence intervals, the choice of the statistical distribution rate 200bps shock.
This shock is useful for drawing comparisons may drive under-prediction of very extreme events i. e. the real across portfolios, and is also a regulatory reporting requirement.
Note distribution may be fat-tailed.
To mitigate this, the Group continues that the EVE calculation measures sensitivity in terms of present value, to improve its models using long time series of historical data to while AEaR measures income sensitivity.
The EVE measure is applied to the entire banking book, including the See page 196 for a review of EC in 2013. liquidity buffer and trades to hedge against non-traded market risk and covers the full life of transactions and hedges, ensuring the risk over the whole life of positions are considered.
The main weaknesses of this model stem from its simplicity.
In particular, it does not capture the impact of business growth or of management actions and is based on the balance sheet as at the reporting date.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 413 Risk management Market risk management continued Value at Risk VaR Management of pension risk Value at Risk VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from Pension risk control unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be As the investment strategy of the UKRF is owned and defined by the held unchanged for a set period.
For internal market risk management Trustees who are independent to the bank, pension risk is not governed purposes, the Investment Bank uses a historical simulation by the conventional limit framework observed in traded and non-traded methodology with a two-year equally weighted historical period, at the market risk.
However, risk and positions are reported monthly to the 95% confidence level for banking book portfolios covered by the Market Risk Committee MRC and periodically to the Pension measure.
This calculation is a present value sensitivity while AEaR is an Management Group PMG, Pension Executive Board PEB and BFRC.
Group Market Risk is responsible for the ongoing challenge of the risk Daily Value at Risk is used to measure residual interest and foreign profile and to that aim will ensure the following: exchange risks within certain banking book portfolios, following a methodology and approach consistent with that of the trading book.
At least annual review of all Pension Funds shortfalls: Detailed review of liability driven data: Quarterly Scaled Value at Risk is used to measure risk in the Liquidity Buffer Investment Portfolio.
The calculation uses a 5 year historical Ensure a continuous and detailed interaction exists between Group period, a 95% confidence level and is scaled from daily to quarterly by a Market Risk and the pension asset manager: constant of 8.1.
The five year historical period is considered to be more To conduct, where necessary, any deep dives to ensure a consistent reflective of the AFS Banking Book portfolio, i. e. less reactive to current view of the risk positions of the fund.
market conditions whilst still capturing the stress period of 2008 and 2009.
Pension risk measurements The following metrics are used to describe pension risk: Stress Testing Stress losses are calculated for liquidity buffer portfolio, but not subject Asset Liability mismatch under IAS 19R, Funding and Solvency Rules: to controlled limits.
Asset VaR and liability VaR: All Non-traded Market Risk positions are subject to the Banks annual Total pension risk VaR i. e. which includes potential diversification stress testing exercise where scenarios based on economic parameters between assets and liabilities.
are used to determine the potential impact of the positions on P&L and the Balance Sheet.
The VaR used for pension risk is calibrated at a 95% confidence level, with a one year horizon to reflect the long-term nature of the risk.
Non-traded Market risk Control Whilst the asset portfolio is sensitive to the volatility to any asset class Non-traded market risk is controlled through the use of limits on many the pension asset manager invests in, the liabilities are mainly exposed of the above risk measures.
Limits are set at the total business level and to inflation, and interest rates and corporate credit spreads which are then cascaded down.
The total business level limits for AEaR, EVE, EC the main components of the discount rate.
and VaR are agreed by the Group Market Risk Committee.
Compliance with limits is monitored by the respective business market risk team See page 197 for a review of pension risk in 2013. with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
The interest rate risk for balances with no defined maturity date and an interest rate that is not linked to the base rate is managed by Group Treasury.
A series of continuous rolling hedges are used to mitigate the interest rate risk in the banking book.
Non-traded Market risk Reporting Barclays Group market risk function produces a number of detailed market risk reports on a daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly basis, for business and risk managers.
A risk summary is presented at the Market Risk Committee.
Asset Management Structural Risk Asset management structural risk arises where the fee and commission income earned by asset management products is affected by a change in market levels, primarily through the link between income and the value of assets under management.
Asset management structural risk mainly resides in Wealth and Investment Management, where the risk is incorporated into the medium term plan and group wide stress test.
Asset management structural risk is subject to Group policy, with limits set and is reported to the Market Risk Committee.
Asset management structural risk is measured using AEaR considering a 30% fall in equity markets and 200bps increase in yields.
Group policy is for businesses to monitor and regularly assess potential hedging strategies.
414 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
