Risk review Supervision and regulation The regulation and supervision of conduct matters is the responsibility All disclosures in this section pages 230 to 235 of the FCA.
FCA regulation of the Group is carried out through a combination of continuous assessment over rolling two-year periods: are unaudited regular thematic and project work based on the FCAs sector assessments, which analyse the different areas of the market and the risks that may lie ahead: and responding to crystallised risks, seeking to ensure remediation as appropriate.
Supervision of the Group The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and The Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act provides a regime to allow the Bank of England or, in certain circumstances, HM Treasury to resolve associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial failing banks in the UK, in consultation with the PRA and HM Treasury as appropriate.
Under the Banking Act, these authorities are given services business.
These apply to business operations and affect financial returns and include reserve and reporting requirements and powers, including a the power to make share transfer orders pursuant to which all or some of the securities issued by a UK bank may be prudential and conduct of business regulations.
These requirements are set by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that transferred to a commercial purchaser or the UK government: and b the power to transfer all or some of the property, rights and liabilities of supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The requirements reflect global standards developed by, among others, the a UK bank to a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity.
A share transfer order can extend to a wide range of securities including Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
They also reflect requirements shares and bonds issued by a UK bank including Barclays Bank PLC or its holding company Barclays PLC and warrants for such shares and of or derived from EU legislation.
From 1 April 2013, certain of these powers were extended to companies within the same group as a UK bank.
The Act also gives the Under the Financial Services Act 2012, the Bank of England has responsibility for monitoring the financial system as a whole and the authorities powers to override events of default or termination rights that might be invoked as a result of the exercise of the resolution system of regulation in the UK has been reorganised.
Since 1 April 2013, the regulation and supervision of the Group has been divided powers.
The Banking Act powers apply regardless of any contractual restrictions and compensation may be payable in the context of both between the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA which is established as part of the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct share transfer orders and property appropriation.
These resolution powers were supplemented with a bail-in power through the Financial Authority FCA.
In addition, the Financial Policy Committee FPC of the Bank of England has significant influence on the prudential Services Banking Reform Act 2013.
This power allows for the cancellation or modification of a liability owed by the bank, with the requirements that may be imposed on the banking system through powers of direction and recommendation.
The FPC has direction exception of excluded liabilities.
Excluded liabilities include: deposits protected under a deposit insurance scheme, secured liabilities, client powers over sectoral capital requirements which the FPC can set in relation to exposures to specific sectors judged to pose a risk to the assets and assets with an original maturity of less than seven days owed to a credit institution or investment firm among others.
The government has also proposed to make the FPC responsible for the Basel III countercyclical capital buffer, The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England the power to override, introduced in the EU under the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD.
vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank, its holding company and its group undertakings for reasonable consideration, in The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA as amended order to enable any transferee or successor bank to operate effectively.
There is also power for the Treasury to amend the law excluding remains the principal statute under which financial institutions are regulated in the UK.
Barclays Bank PLC is authorised under FSMA to provisions made by or under the Banking Act for the purpose of enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with carry on a range of regulated activities within the UK and is authorised retrospective effect.
and subject to solo and consolidated prudential supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct regulation and supervision by the FCA.
Firms The Financial Services Act 2010, among other things, requires the UK are subject to a rolling programme of continuous, intensive and regulators to make rules about remuneration and to require regulated assertive engagement on prudential and conduct matters.
firms to have a remuneration policy that is consistent with effective risk management.
The UK regulators are mandated to make rules that In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to maintain the safety and require authorised firms or a subset of authorised firms to draw up soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but recovery and resolution plans and to consult with HM Treasury and the not guaranteeing, the protection of customers and the financial Bank of England on the adequacy of firms plans.
This Act also allows system.
The PRAs continuing supervision of financial institutions is the FCA to make rules requiring firms to operate a collective consumer conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the redress scheme to deal with cases of widespread failure by regulated collection of information from prudential returns, reports obtained firms to meet regulatory requirements that may have created consumer from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with detriment.
management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management and strategy.
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In addition to establishing the FPC, PRA and FCA, the Financial Services Regulation in the UK is considerably shaped and influenced by EU Act 2012 among other things, clarifies responsibilities between HM directives and regulations.
These provide the structure of the European Treasury and the Bank of England in the event of a financial crisis by Single Market, an important feature of which is the framework for the giving the Chancellor of the Exchequer powers to direct the Bank of regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a England where public funds are at risk and there is a serious threat to credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU member state financial stability: it establishes the objectives and accountabilities of to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment the new regulatory bodies: amends the Threshold Conditions for of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in authorisation: and gives the new bodies additional powers, including other member states without the need for local authorisation.
Barclays powers of direction over unregulated parent undertakings such as operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination of Barclays PLC where this is necessary to ensure effective consolidated both home and host regulators.
supervision of the Group: and a power for the FCA to make temporary product intervention rules for a maximum period of six months, if Barclays operations in South Africa, including Barclays Africa Group necessary without consultation.
The Act also gives the FCA the power Limited, are supervised and regulated by mainly the South African to set rules in relation to the setting of benchmarks and creates a new Reserve Bank SARB, the Financial Services Board FSB as well as the criminal offence relating to the making of a false or misleading Department of Trade and Industry DTI.
SARB oversees the banking statement, or the creation of a false or misleading impression, in industry and follows a risk-based approach to supervision, whilst the connection with the setting of a benchmark.
FSB oversees financial services such as insurance and investment business and focuses on enhancing consumer protection and In addition to providing for the bail-in stabilisation powers referred to regulating market conduct.
The DTI regulates consumer credit through above, the Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the 2013 Act the National Credit Act NCA 2005, as well as other aspects of gives the UK authorities powers to implement the recommendations of consumer protection not regulated under the jurisdiction of the FSB the Independent Commission on Banking by requiring, amongst other through the Consumer Protection Act CPA 2008.
It is intended that things: i the separation of the retail banking activities of UK banks in regulatory responsibilities in South Africa will in future be divided the UK and European Economic Area EEA in a legally distinct, between the SARB which will be responsible for prudential regulation and the FSB will be responsible for matters of market conduct.
The operationally separate and economically independent entity so called ring fencing : ii the increase of the loss-absorbing capacity of precise timing for the move to twin peaks regulation remains to be determined.
ring-fenced banks and UK headquartered global systemically important banks to levels higher than required by the CRD and iii preference to In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US deposits protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if a bank enters insolvency.
subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the The 2013 Act also implements key recommendations of the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 BHC Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Dodd-Frank Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, which was asked by the government to review professional standards and culture in the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 DFA.
This framework regulates the activities of Barclays, including its US banking banking industry.
Recommendations that have been implemented include: i the establishment of a reserve power for the PRA to enforce subsidiaries and the US branches of Barclays Bank PLC, as well as imposing prudential restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit full separation of UK banks under certain circumstances: ii the creation of a senior managers regime for senior individuals in the by the Barclays Bank PLCs US branches and the US banking subsidiaries to a single borrower and to affiliates.
The New York and banking and investment banking sectors to ensure better accountability for decisions made: iii the establishment of a criminal Florida branches of Barclays Bank PLC are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the offence of causing a financial institution to fail: and iv the establishment of a regulator for payment systems.
Federal Reserve System FRB and, as applicable, the New York State Department of Financial Services and the Florida Office of Financial The 2013 Act is primarily an enabling statute which provides HM Regulation.
Barclays Bank Delaware, a Delaware chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Deposit Treasury with the requisite powers to implement the policy underlying the legislation through secondary legislation.
The UK Government has Insurance Corporation FDIC, the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The published draft secondary legislation.
The UK Government intends that both primary and secondary legislation will be in place by May 2015 deposits of Barclays Bank Delaware are insured by the FDIC.
Barclays Wealth Trustees US NA is an uninsured non-depository trust and that UK banks will be required to be compliant with the structural reform requirements by 1 January 2019.
Other elements of the Act will company chartered and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
The licensing authority of each US branch of Barclays enter into force before that date.
Bank PLC has the authority, in certain circumstances, to take possession of the business and property of Barclays Bank PLC located Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are subject to a single compensation scheme the Financial Services in the state of the office it licenses or to revoke or suspend such licence.
Such circumstances generally include violations of law, unsafe business Compensation Scheme FSCS which operates when an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it practices and insolvency.
because of its financial circumstances.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the EEA which are denominated in Sterling or other currencies are covered by the FSCS.
Most claims made in respect of investment business will also be protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in another EEA member state.
The FSCS is funded by levies on authorised UK firms such as Barclays Bank PLC.
In the event that the FSCS raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by firms, the associated costs to the Group may have a material impact on the Groups results.
Further details can be found in Note 28 on page 333. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 231 Risk review Supervision and regulation continued Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are bank holding companies Regulatory developments registered with the FRB, which exercises umbrella supervisory authority The regulatory change generated by the financial crisis is having and over Barclays US operations.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have will continue to have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, each elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the including the Group.
Regulatory change is being pursued at a number BHC Act.
Financial holding companies may generally engage in a of levels, globally notably through the G20, Financial Stability Board broader range of financial and related activities than are permitted to FSB and Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS, regionally registered bank holding companies that do not maintain financial through the European Union and nationally, especially in the UK and holding company status, including underwriting and dealing in all types US.
Further changes to prudential requirements and further of securities.
Financial holding companies such as Barclays PLC and refinements to the definitions of capital and liquid assets may affect the Barclays Bank PLC are required to meet or exceed certain capital ratios Groups planned activities and could increase costs and contribute to and be deemed to be well managed, and Barclays Bank Delaware and adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
Similarly, increased Barclays Wealth Trustees US NA are each required to meet certain requirements in relation to capital markets activities and to market capital requirements and be deemed to be well managed.
In addition, conduct requirements may affect the Groups planned activities and Barclays Bank Delaware must have at least a satisfactory rating under could increase costs and thereby contribute to adverse impacts on the the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRA.
Entities ceasing to Groups earnings.
meet any of these requirements, are allotted a period of time in which to restore capital levels or the management or CRA rating.
Failure to Global meet such requirements during the allotted period of time may result in The programme of reform of the global regulatory framework that was such institutions being prohibited from engaging in new types of agreed by G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has continued to be financial activities or making certain acquisitions in the US.
If the capital taken forward during 2013. level or rating is not restored, the Group may ultimately be required by the FRB to cease certain activities in the United States.
More generally, The FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for Barclays US activities and operations may by subject to other co-ordinating the delivery of the global reform programme.
It has requirements and restrictions by the FRB under its supervisory focused particularly on the risks posed by systemically important authority, including with respect to safety and soundness.
In 2011, G20 Heads of Government adopted FSB proposals to reform the regulation of globally systematically important financial institutions G-SIFIs.
A key element of this programme is that Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended by the DFA, Barclays is required to act as a source of financial strength for Barclays G-SIFIs should be capable of being resolved without recourse to taxpayer support.
Barclays has been designated a G-SIFI by the FSB.
This could, among other things, require Barclays to inject capital into Barclays Bank Delaware if it fails to meet applicable G-SIFIs will be subject to a number of requirements, including additional loss absorption capacity above that required by Basel 3 regulatory capital requirements.
The surcharges rise in increments from 1% to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets with an empty category of 3.5% for A major focus of US government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist institutions that increase the extent of the systemic risk they pose which is intended to discourage institutions from developing their financing and enforcing compliance with US economic sanctions.
Regulations applicable to US operations of Barclays Bank PLC and its business in a way that heightens their systemic nature.
This additional buffer must be met with common equity.
subsidiaries impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money In its November 2013 list of G-SIFIs, the FSB placed Barclays in a laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure compliance with US economic sanctions against designated foreign countries, nationals category that would require it to meet a 2% surcharge.
The additional loss absorbency requirements will apply to those banks identified in and others.
Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programmes to combat money laundering and terrorist November 2014 as globally systemically important and will be phased in starting in January 2016, with full implementation by January 2019. financing or to ensure economic sanction compliance could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.
G-SIFIs must also meet the higher supervisory expectations for data aggregation capabilities by January 2016.
In the EU the requirements for Barclays US securities broker dealer, investment advisory and a systemic risk buffer will be implemented through the CRD.
investment banking operations are also subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, the The BCBS issued the final guidelines on Basel 3 capital and liquidity standards in June 2011, with revisions to counterparty credit risk in July Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA and other government agencies and self-regulatory organisations SROs as part of a and November 2011.
It has continued to refine elements of this package through 2013, notably in relation to regulatory liquidity where revisions comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities and commodities business under the US federal and state securities laws.
were agreed in January 2013 to the definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows for the purpose of calculating the Liquidity Similarly, Barclays US commodity futures and options-related operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by the Coverage Ratio, as well as establishing a timetable for phasing-in the standard from January 2016.
Amendments to the Basel 3 leverage ratio Commodity Futures Trading Commission CTFC, the National Futures Association and other SROs.
and liquidity frameworks were issued in January 2014.
The requirements of Basel 3 as a whole are subject to a number of transitional provisions The credit card activities of the Group in the US are subject to the that run to the end of 2018.
The Group is, however, primarily subject to the EUs implementation of the Basel 3 standard through the CRD see Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 which prohibits certain pricing and marketing practices for consumer below.
An assessment of the likely impact of the Basel 3 capital, leverage and liquidity requirements as implemented by the CRD and credit card accounts.
Among the numerous provisions are those that prohibit increasing rates on existing balances and over limit fees in interpreted by the PRA can be found in the analysis of funding risk in relation to capital and to liquidity pages 199 to 224. most instances, restrict increasing fees and rates prospectively, restrict what penalty fees can be assessed, regulate how payments are to be The BCBS also maintains a number of active work streams that will allocated to different balances and how the billing process is to work, and governs all communications to cardholders.
These include a fundamental review of the trading book where a second consultation on enhanced capital standards was issued in October 2013 and further work on large exposures.
The Committee also continues to focus on the consistency of risk weighting of assets and explaining the variations between banks.
A second consultation on enhanced standards was also held in relation to the 232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information securitisation framework.
The results of this work are expected in 2014. senior unsecured creditors subject to any bail-in in the event of a In conjunction with the International Organization of Securities resolution of a failing bank.
It also stipulates that firms would need a Commissions, the BCBS issued enhanced standards for margin minimum percentage of liabilities in a form that allows them to be requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives in September.
The proposal also requires the development of BCBS also issued risk management guidelines related to anti-money recovery and resolution plans at group and firm-level.
The proposal laundering and terrorist financing in January 2014.
These and other sets out a harmonised set of resolution tools across the EU, including developments may further increase the capital required by the Group to the power to impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to transact affected business and or affect the ability of the Group to terminate, accelerate or close out contracts.
There are also significant undertake certain transactions.
funding implications for financial institutions: the proposal envisages the establishment of pre-funded resolution funds of 1% of covered European Union deposits to be built up over 10 years, although the proposal also The EU continues to develop its regulatory structure in response to the envisages that national deposit guarantee schemes may be able to fulfil financial and Eurozone crises.
At the December 2012 meeting of EU this function.
The proposal is to be implemented by 1 January 2015, Finance Ministers it was agreed to establish a single supervisory with the exception of the bail-in powers which must be implemented mechanism within the Eurozone.
The European Central Bank ECB will by 1 January 2016. have responsibility for the supervision of the most significant Eurozone credit institutions, financial holding companies or mixed financial A proposal to amend the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes is holding companies.
The ECB may extend its supervision to institutions also being considered.
The draft directive envisages that national of significant relevance that have established subsidiaries in more than schemes should be pre-funded, with a fund to be raised over a number one participating member state and with significant cross-border of years.
This would be a significant change for UK banks where levies are currently raised as needed after failure.
An agreement between assets or liabilities.
Following the passage of the regulation granting the ECB responsibility for banking supervision in the Eurozone in Council and Parliament remains to be finalised, but would envisage a fund of 0.8% of covered deposits to be built up over 10 years.
September 2013, it is expected that the single supervisory mechanism will become operational in autumn 2014.
In relation to both resolution funds and the funds required by the Notwithstanding the new responsibilities of the ECB, the European Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes, there may be scope for the UK to use the Bank Levy to meet pre-funding obligations, although Banking Authority EBA which came into being on 1 January 2011, along with the other European Supervisory Authorities, remains whether this will happen and the manner in which this might operate remains unclear.
charged with the development of a single rulebook for the EU as a whole and with enhancing co-operation between national supervisory In October 2012, a group of experts set up by the European authorities.
The European Securities Markets Authority ESMA has a similar role in relation to the capital markets and to banks and other Commission to consider possible reform of the structure of the EU banking sector presented its report.
Among other things, the group firms doing investment and capital markets business.
The progressive reduction of national discretion on the part of national regulatory recommended the mandatory separation of proprietary trading and other high-risk trading activities from other banking activities.
The authorities within the EU may lead to the elimination of prudential arrangements that have been agreed with those authorities.
This may European Commission issued proposals to implement these recommendations in January 2014.
These proposals would apply to serve to increase or decrease the amount of capital and other resources that the Group is required to hold.
The overall effect is not clear and G-SIFIs and envisage, among other things: i a ban on proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities: ii giving may only become evident over a number of years.
The EBA and ESMA each have the power to mediate between and override national supervisors the power and, in certain instances, the obligation to require the transfer of other trading activities deemed to be high risk authorities under certain circumstances.
Responsibility for day to day supervision remains with national authorities and for banks, like the to separate legal trading entities within the group: and iii rules on the economic, legal, governance, and operational links between the Group, that are incorporated in countries that will not participate in the single supervisory mechanism, is expected to remain so.
separated trading entity and the rest of the banking group.
Contemporaneously, the European Commission also adopted proposals Basel 3 and from 2016 the capital surcharge for systemic institutions to enhance the transparency of shadow banking, especially in relation to securities financing transactions.
These proposals have yet to be have been implemented in the EU by the CRD.
The CRD entered into force on 1 January 2014.
Much of the implementation is expected to be considered by the European Parliament and by the Council.
Their impact, if they are adopted, remains to be determined.
done through binding technical standards being developed by the EBA, that are intended to ensure a harmonised application of rules through The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR introduces new the EU which are still largely in the process of being developed and adopted.
An assessment of the likely impact of the capital, leverage and requirements to improve transparency and reduce the risks associated with the derivatives market.
These requirements come into force liquidity requirements of CRD and CRR as interpreted by the PRA can be found in the analysis of funding risk in relation to capital and to progressively through 2013 and 2014.
When it enters fully into force, EMIR will require entities that enter into any form of derivative contract, liquidity pages 199 to 207 in relation to capital and leverage and pages 208 to 224 in relation to liquidity.
including interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity derivatives, to: report every derivative contract that they enter to a A significant addition to the EU legislative framework for financial trade repository: implement new risk management standards, including operational processes and margining, for all bilateral institutions is a directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
This Directive is over-the-counter derivatives trades that are not cleared by a central counterparty: and clear, through a central counterparty, over-theintended to implement many of the requirements of the FSBs Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial Institutions, counter derivatives that are subject to a mandatory clearing obligation.
EMIR has potential operational and financial impacts on the Group, and political agreement on it was reached by the European Parliament and Council in December 2013, although it has yet to complete the including collateral requirements.
Lower capital requirements for cleared trades are only available if the central counterparty is legislative process.
The directive would give resolution authorities powers to intervene in and resolve a financial institution that is no recognised as a qualifying central counterparty which has been authorised or recognised under EMIR in accordance with binding longer viable, including through the transfers of business and creditor financed recapitalisation bail-in within resolution that allocates losses technical standards.
to shareholders and unsecured and uninsured creditors in their order of seniority, at a regulator determined point of non-viability that may Proposals to amend the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive known as MiFID II were agreed in January 2014.
The concept of bail-in may affect the rights of barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 233 Risk review Supervision and regulation continued take the form of a directive and a regulation and will affect many of the customers and the operation of markets.
This may impact both the investment markets in which the Group operates and the instruments incidence of conduct costs and increase the cost of remediation.
The in which it trades, and how it transacts with market counterparties and Retail Distribution Review entered into force on 1 January 2013 and the other customers.
Changes to the MiFID regime include the introduction Mortgage Market Review will apply from 26 April 2014.
These conduct of a new type of trading venue the organised trading facility, to initiatives will affect the economics of investment advice and home capture non-equity trading that falls outside the current regime.
Investor protections have been strengthened, and new curbs imposed on high frequency and commodity trading.
Preand post-trade United States transparency has been increased, and a new regime for third country The DFA became law in July 2010.
Although many of the DFA rules firms introduced.
The changes also include new requirements for have been adopted and implemented, a number of rules have not yet non-discriminatory access to trading venues, central counterparties, been adopted, or have been adopted but not fully implemented.
In and benchmarks, and harmonised supervisory powers and sanctions addition, the rules that have been adopted and implemented have, for across the EU.
Implementation is not expected until late 2016 and the most part, only recently become effective and their impact, in many many of the provisions of MiFID II and its accompanying regulation will cases, cannot yet be fully evaluated.
Therefore, the full scale of the be implemented by means of technical standards to be drafted by DFAs impact on the Group continues to remain unclear.
Some of the impacts on the Group will not be clear until these market practices and structures may change in response to the technical standards have been adopted.
requirements of the DFA in ways that are difficult to predict but that could impact Barclays business.
Nonetheless, certain provisions of the United Kingdom DFA are particularly likely to have a significant effect on the Group, Developments in the UK have been dominated by the Financial Services including: Banking Reform Act 2013.
The content and the impact of this Structural Reform: On 18 February 2014, the FRB issued final rules legislation are discussed above.
Secondary legislation and rule-making implementing various enhanced prudential standards under Section to implement both the Act and the recommendations of the 165 of the DFA applicable to certain foreign banking organisations Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards will is anticipated and their US operations i. e. branches, agencies, and subsidiaries, through 2014. including Barclays.
As noted above, the FPC has a significant influence on prudential The final rules specific requirements depend on the amount of requirements.
During 2013, the FPC continued to recommend that the assets of the foreign banking organisation both inside and outside PRA should seek to ensure that UK banks hold greater levels of capital.
Because its total US and non-US assets exceed In particular, the FPC recommended that the PRA should apply higher $50bn, Barclays would be subject to the most stringent requirements capital requirements to any major bank or building society with of the final rules, including the requirement to create a US concentrated exposure to vulnerable assets, where there were valuation intermediate holding company IHC structure to hold its US banking uncertainties or where banks were highly leveraged relating to trading and non-banking subsidiaries, including Barclays Capital Inc. the activities.
This resulted in the PRA on 20 June 2013 requiring two firms, Groups US broker-dealer subsidiary.
The IHC would be subject to including Barclays, to submit plans to increase the Core Equity Tier 1 supervision and regulation, including as to regulatory capital and leverage ratio to 3% by end June 2014 after adjustment for prospective stress testing as described below, by the FRB as if it were a US bank credit and conduct losses.
Also responding to an FPC recommendation, holding company of comparable size.
While the operations and the Bank of England and PRA are also developing an approach to assets of Barclays Bank PLCs US branches would not be required to annual stress testing of the UK banking system and the individual be held in the IHC, the branches would be subject to certain separate institutions within it.
The first such exercise is planned for 2014. requirements.
Under the final rules, the consolidated IHC would be subject to a Both the PRA and the FCA have continued to develop and apply a more number of additional supervisory and prudential requirements, such assertive approach to supervision and the application of existing as: i subject to certain limited exceptions, FRB regulatory capital standards.
This may include application of standards that either requirements and leverage limits that are the same as those anticipate or go beyond requirements established by global or EU applicable to US banking organisations of comparable size: ii standards, whether in relation to capital, leverage and liquidity, mandatory company-run and supervisory stress testing of capital resolvability and resolution of matters of conduct.
In December 2013, levels and submission of a capital plan to the FRB: iii supervisory the PRA published its requirements to implement the new European approval of and limitations on capital distributions by the IHC to capital regime, clarifying key policy issues that affect the minimum Barclays Bank PLC: iv additional substantive liquidity requirements, level of Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital which banks need to including requirements to conduct monthly internal liquidity stress maintain.
The PRA will require banks to meet a 4% Pillar 1 CET1 tests for the IHC and also for Barclays Bank PLCs US branch requirement in 2014, rising to 4.5% from 1 January 2015.
Similarly, network, separately, and to maintain in the US a 30-day buffer of during the same period the required Pillar 1 Tier 1 capital ratio will be highly liquid assets for the IHC the branch liquidity buffer is set at 14 5.5%, rising to 6% from 1 January 2015 onwards.
The PRA will require days : v other liquidity risk management requirements, including UK banks to bring CET1 in line with the end-point definition from 1 compliance with liquidity risk management standards established by January 2014 rather than benefiting from transitional arrangements.
the FRB and maintenance of an independent review function to Additionally, the PRA will expect eight major UK banks and building review and evaluate regularly the adequacy and effectiveness of the societies including Barclays, to meet a 7% CET1 capital ratio and a 3% liquidity risk management practices of Barclays combined US Tier 1 leverage ratio after taking into account adjustments to operations: vi overall risk management requirements, including a risk-weighted assets and CET1 capital deemed necessary by the PRA US risk committee and a US chief risk officer: and vii a potential from 1 January 2014, except where as in the case for Barclays the 15:1 debt-to-equity limit applicable to the IHC in the event of the PRA has agreed a plan with the firm to meet the standards over a occurrence of a designation by the U. S. Financial Stability Oversight longer time frame.
Barclays has agreed with the PRA that it will meet Council under Section 165 j of the DFA that the foreign banking this requirement by end-June 2014 at the latest.
Details of Barclays organisation poses a grave threat to the systemic stability of the leverage calculation are set out on pages 205 and 206.
United States and the debt-to-equity limit is necessary to mitigate such risk.
The FCA has retained an approach to enforcement based on credible deterrence that has continued to see significant growth in the size of The effective date of the final rule is 1 June 2014, although regulatory fines.
The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk and on compliance with most of its requirements will be phased-in between customer outcomes and will continue to do so.
More particularly, i Barclays will not be required to focus on the design and operation of products, the behaviour of form its IHC until 1 July 2016, ii the IHC will not be subject to the US 234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information generally applicable minimum leverage capital requirement which is in the over-the counter markets be traded on an exchange or swap different than the Basel III international leverage ratio, including to execution facility and centrally cleared through a regulated clearing the extent that the generally applicable US leverage ratio does not house.
In addition, many participants in these markets are required to include off-balance sheet exposures until 1 January 2018, and iii register with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants the IHC will first be required to make the aforementioned capital plan and or with the US SEC as securities swap dealers or major submission and be subject to the company-run and supervisory securities swap dealers and be subject to CFTC and SEC regulation capital stress testing requirements of the final rules in January 2018. and oversight.
It is anticipated that additional participants in the derivatives markets will be required to register in the future.
Barclays In addition, Barclays US IHC will also be separately subject to the Bank PLC has registered as a swap dealer.
Entities required to register supplementary US version of the Basel III international minimum are subject to business conduct, recordkeeping and reporting leverage capital requirement starting in 2018 to the extent the IHC requirements and will be subject to capital and margin requirements.
has over $250bn of total consolidated assets or $10bn in total The DFA also requires most standardised derivatives to be traded on non-US exposures.
In light of the recent release of the final rules, a regulated platform and cleared through a regulated clearing house.
Barclays continues to evaluate their implications for Barclays.
In addition, the CFTC, pursuant to the DFA, has proposed rules on Nevertheless, the Group currently believes that, in the aggregate, the position limits on derivatives on physical commodities.
Once adopted final rules and, in particular, the leverage requirements in the final and implemented, these rules will limit the size of positions that can rules that will ultimately become applicable to the IHC are likely to be held by an entity, or a group of entities under common ownership increase the operational costs and capital requirements and or or control, in futures and over-the-counter derivatives, subject to require changes to the business mix of Barclays US operations, certain exemptions.
These rules could restrict trading activity, which ultimately may have an adverse effect on the Groups overall reducing trading opportunities and market liquidity and potentially result of operations.
increasing the cost of hedging transactions and the volatility of the Finally, the final rules did not implement the single counterparty relevant markets.
It is also possible that registration, execution, credit exposure limits or the early remediation framework that were clearing and compliance requirements as well as other additional originally proposed in 2012.
The FRB expects to implement such regulations certain of which still are not final, and the related provisions at a later date.
expenses and requirements, will increase the cost of and restrict participation in the derivative markets, thereby increasing the costs of Other enhanced prudential requirements: In addition to the engaging in hedging or other transactions and reducing liquidity and requirements that would be implemented under the above final rules the use of the derivative markets.
Barclays Bank PLC and its described under Structural Reform, the DFA and other US laws and subsidiaries and affiliates may be exposed to these effects whether or regulations also impose higher capital, liquidity and leverage not these subsidiaries are required to register in the capacities requirements on US banks and bank holding companies generally.
The new regulation of the derivative markets could discussed above, these requirements will also be generally applicable adversely affect the business of Barclays Bank PLC and its affiliates in to the IHC and Barclays US operations held by it.
these markets and could make it more difficult and expensive to Restrictions on proprietary trading and fund-related activities: In conduct hedging and trading activities.
December 2013, the relevant US regulatory agencies, including the Risk retention requirements for securitisations: The US federal FRB, the FDIC, the SEC and the CFTC, finalised the rules banking agencies are required by the DFA to develop rules whereby, implementing the requirements of Section 619 of the DFA the subject to certain exceptions, any sponsor of an asset-backed so-called Volcker Rule.
The Volcker Rule, once fully effective, will security ABS transaction must retain, generally, not less than 5% of prohibit banking entities, including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC the credit risk of any asset that the sponsor, through the issuance of and their various subsidiaries and affiliates from undertaking certain ABS, transfers, sells or conveys to a third party.
This may impact the proprietary trading but will allow activities such as underwriting, participation by the Groups US operations in such transactions.
market making and risk-mitigation hedging and will limit the sponsorship of, and investment in, private equity funds including The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CFPB : The CFPB is non-conforming real estate and credit funds and hedge funds, in empowered to regulate the credit card industry, including the terms each case broadly defined, by such entities.
These restrictions are of credit card agreements with consumers, disclosures and fees.
subject to certain exceptions and exemptions, including those listed Actions by the CFPB in this area are likely to impact the Groups US above as well as exemptions applicable to transactions and credit card business.
The CFPB became operational in July 2011, and investments occurring solely outside of the United States.
The rules has developed a model credit card disclosure form and is accepting will require Barclays to develop an extensive compliance and consumer credit card complaints.
More broadly, the CFPB has the monitoring programme both inside and outside of the United authority to examine and take enforcement action against any US States, subject to various executive officer attestation requirements, bank with over $10bn in total assets, such as Barclays Bank Delaware, addressing proprietary trading and covered fund activities, and it is with respect to its compliance with Federal laws regulating the therefore expected that compliance costs will increase.
The final rules provision of consumer financial services and with respect to unfair, are highly complex and differ in certain significant respects from the deceptive or abusive acts and practices.
Since becoming operational, rules as proposed in October 2011.
As such, their full impact will not the CFPB has initiated several high-profile public actions against be known with certainty until market practices and structures financial companies, including major credit card issuers.
Subject entities are generally required to be in of those actions have included monetary penalties, customer compliance by July 2015 with certain provisions subject to possible remediation requirements and commitments to modify business extensions.
Resolution plans: The DFA requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50bn or more to submit to the FRB and the FDIC, and regularly update, a plan for rapid and orderly resolution to be used if the company experiences material financial distress or failure.
Non-US banking organisations that are treated as bank holding companies under US law, such as Barclays, are required to submit such plans with respect to their US operations if they have more than $50bn in US assets.
As Barclays US assets exceed $250bn, it submitted its most recent annual resolution plan as required in October 2013.
Regulation of derivatives markets: Among the changes mandated by the DFA are that many types of derivatives now or previously traded barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 235 236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Financial review Contents A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and our businesses contribution to the overall performance of the Group.
Key performance indicators 238 Consolidated summary income statement 245 Income statement commentary 246 Consolidated summary balance sheet 247 Balance sheet commentary 248 Analysis of results by business 249 Margins and balances review 267 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 237
