Risk management Liquidity risk management The Board sets the Groups Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA, being the Liquidity Risk level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
The Treasury Liquidity risk is the risk that a firm, although Committee is responsible for the management and governance of the solvent, either does not have sufficient financial mandate defined by the Board and includes the following subcommittees: resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such The Balance Sheet Management Committee provides a coordinated forum to oversee the management and governance of resources only at excessive cost.
This also results Balance Sheet Management including behavioural mismatch, in a firms inability to meet regulatory liquidity structural risk, and transfer pricing: requirements.
This risk is inherent in all banking The Investment Advisory Group supervises the investment of a operations and can be affected by a range of portion of the Groups liquidity pool in longer dated liquid assets.
The Group-specific and market-wide events.
Investment Advisory Group approves a detailed allocation framework across assets and tenors, and reviews the performance and risks associated with these holdings.
The holdings are subject to limits set by the Board Financial Risk Committee and by the independent Group market and credit risk functions: and These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated The Funding and Liquidity Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Balance Sheet Management Committee, is responsible for the review, challenge and recommendation of the Liquidity Framework to the Overview audited Treasury Committee.
The Board has formally recognised a series of risks that are Liquidity risk framework continuously present in Barclays and materially impact the Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Framework for managing the achievement of Barclays objectives one of which is Funding risk.
The Liquidity Framework is designed to deliver Liquidity risk is recognised as a Key risk within Funding risk.
The the appropriate term and structure of funding consistent with the efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in retaining Liquidity Risk Appetite set by the Board.
the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that the business is sustainable.
Liquidity risk is managed through the Liquidity Risk The Liquidity Framework incorporates a range of ongoing business Management Framework the Liquidity Framework which is designed management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Groups balance to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and quality sheet and contingent liabilities and a Contingency Funding Plan.
Limit and a funding profile, which is appropriate to maintain market setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the confidence in the Groups name and meet the liquidity risk appetite as level of liquidity risk taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds, expressed by the Board.
which together reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due.
The This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and stress tests assess potential contractual and contingent stress outflows governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.
under a range of scenarios, which are then used to determine the size Together, these meet internal and regulatory requirements.
of the liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet anticipated outflows, if a stress occurred.
Governance and organisation audited Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance control process The Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which details how that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities by the liquidity stress events of varying severity would be managed.
Since the Board Financial Risk Committee.
The Liquidity Framework is subject to precise nature of any stress event cannot be known in advance, the annual review.
The Liquidity Framework describes liquidity policies and plans are designed to be flexible to the nature and severity of the stress controls that the Group has implemented to manage liquidity risk event and provide a menu of options that could be used as appropriate within the Liquidity Risk Appetite.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a severe stress.
Ongoing business Early signs Severe Stress Recovery Resolution management Mild stress LRA and Planning Monitoring and review Activate Contingency Asset and liability Ensure an orderly Funding Plan actions to generate resolution can be carried Liquidity limits Low cost actions and additional liquidity out if necerssary, without balance sheet optimism Balance sheet reduction Early Warning adverse systemic risk or and business limitations Indicators Committee exposing the public fund to loss 418 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The LRA is reviewed on a continuous basis and is subject to formal Ongoing business management Board approval at least annually.
The Group runs three primary liquidity Risk appetite and planning stress scenarios, aligned to the PRAs prescribed stresses: Under the Liquidity Framework, Barclays has established a Liquidity 90 day market-wide stress event: Risk Appetite LRA together with the appropriate limits for the management of the liquidity risk.
This is the level of liquidity risk the 30 day Barclays-specific stress event: and Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in 30 day combined market-wide and Barclays-specific stress event.
The key expression of the liquidity risk is through internal stress tests.
This involves comparing the In addition to the liquidity pool, the Liquidity Framework provides for liquidity pool with anticipated stressed net contractual and contingent other management actions, including generating liquidity from other outflows for each of three stress scenarios.
liquid assets on the Groups balance sheet in order to meet additional stress outflows, or to preserve or restore the Liquidity Pool in the event of a liquidity stress Liquidity limits Barclays manages limits on a variety of on and off-balance sheet exposures, a sample of which is shown in the table below.
These limits serve to control the overall extent and composition of liquidity risk taken by managing exposure to the cash outflows.
Examples of Liquidity Limits Money market framework FX Cashflow limits Concentration limits Structurered Notes limits Secured Mismatch limits Debt Buyback limits Off-Balance Sheet Ratings Downgrade limits commitment limits Internal pricing and incentives Early warning indicators Barclays actively manages the composition and duration of the balance Barclays monitors a range of market indicators for early signs of sheet and of contingent liquidity risk through the transfer of liquidity liquidity risk either in the market or specific to Barclays, a sample of premium directly to business units.
Liquidity premiums are charged which are shown in the table below.
These are designed to immediately and credited to businesses according to the behavioural life of assets identify the emergence of increased liquidity risk to maximise the time and liabilities and contingent liquidity risk.
These transfer pricing available to execute appropriate mitigating actions.
Deterioration in mechanisms are designed to ensure that liquidity risk is reflected in Early Warning Indicators can lead to invocation of the Groups product pricing and performance measurement, thereby ensuring that Contingency Funding Plan, which provides a framework for how the the Liquidity Framework is integrated into business level decision liquidity stress would be managed.
making to drive the appropriate mix of sources and uses of funds.
Examples of Early Warning Indicators Change in composition of deposits Level of debt buybacks Rising funding costs Widening CDS spreads Change in maturity profile Repo haircut widening Contingency Funding Plan and Recovery Resolution Plan The CFP provides a communication plan and includes management actions to respond to liquidity stresses of varying severity.
These could Barclays maintains a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is designed to provide a framework where a liquidity stress could be include monetising the liquidity pool, slowing the extension of credit and increasing the tenor of funding.
The CFP is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business and is tested to ensure that it is The Group continues to work with the authorities on recovery and operationally robust.
The CFP details the circumstances in which the plan could be invoked, including as a result of adverse movements in resolution planning RRP.
The Group made its first formal RRP submissions to the UK and US regulators in mid-2012 and has since Liquidity Early Warning Indicators.
As part of the plan the Barclays Treasurer has established a Liquidity Management Committee LMC continued to work with the authorities to identify and address any impediments to resolvability.
On invocation of the CFP, the LMC would meet to identify the likely impact of the event on the Group and determine the response, which Barclays also maintains a Group Recovery Plan, which details potential would be proportionate to the nature and severity of the stress.
actions in the event of a severe stress including securitising or selling assets, disposals, divestment and capital raising.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 419
