Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Risk Management Strategy Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established should any of the Groups customers, clients or strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
The granting of credit is Overview audited one of the Groups major sources of income and, The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale as the most significant risk, the Group dedicates and retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit considerable resources to its control.
risk arising from derivative contracts entered into with clients.
This is demonstrated by the impairment charge analysis chart.
Other sources of credit risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, settlement balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
Credit risk management objectives are to: Maintain a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is based on sound credit risk management principles: These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated Identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across the Group and within each separate business, from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio: Control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations: Monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls: and Ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
Total credit impairment charge and other provisions 3,071m 1 Wholesale Loans and Advances 892m 5 2 AFS and Reserve Repos 9m 4 3 Contingent Liabilities and Guarantees 17m 1 4 Retail Loans and Advances 2,153m 2 4 3 Excludes charges against contingent liabilities and guarantees Organisation and structure Financial Risk Committee Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee Retail Credit Committee Chaired by Wholesale Credit Risk Director Chaired by Retail Credit Risk Director Set wholesale risk profile Monitor the retail credit risk profile against plan and agree any required actions Monitor the wholesale credit risk profile against plan and agree any required actions Review impairment performance and coverage ratios Review and challenge the profile of wholesale credit risk Review key drivers of capital demand and changes in RWA Debate potential developing wholesale credit risk issues Review key retail risk issues Review model methodologies and coverage Review retail credit risk policies and framework Investment Bank UK RBB Corporate Banking Europe RBB Africa RBB Africa RBB Wealth and Investment Management Barclaycard Corporate Banking retail portfolios Wealth and Investment Management 392 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed separately to reflect the Measuring exposures and concentrations: differing nature of the assets: wholesale balances tend to be larger and Monitoring performance and asset quality: are managed on an individual basis while retail balances are smaller in value and can be managed on a homogenous portfolio basis.
Monitoring for weaknesses in portfolios: Raising allowances for impairment and other credit provisions: and Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst Returning assets to a performing status or writing off assets when ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the business risk directors in those Measuring exposures and concentrations businesses who, in turn, report to the CRO and also to the heads of Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit their businesses.
risk to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of credit risk through, for example, loans to banks, loan commitments The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the and debt securities.
Barclays risk management policies and processes businesses include: sanctioning new credit agreements: monitoring risk are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk against limits and other parameters: ensuring all elements of post appetite, limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to sanction fulfilment are completed in line with terms of the sanction: limits by means of reliable and timely data.
maintaining robust systems, data gathering, quality, storage and reporting methods for effective credit risk management: for wholesale One area of particular review is concentration risk.
A concentration of portfolios performing effective turnaround and workout scenarios via credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in dedicated restructuring and recoveries teams: and for retail portfolios similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would maintaining robust collections and recovery processes units.
cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.
As a result, Credit risk approval is undertaken by experienced credit risk Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of areas professionals operating within a clearly defined delegated authority including, for example, geography, maturity and industry see page 145 framework, with only the most senior credit officers entrusted with the for further detail.
higher levels of delegated authority.
The largest credit exposures are approved at the Credit Committee which is managed by Central Risk.
In Mandate and Scale limits are used to maintain concentrations at the wholesale portfolios, credit risk managers are organised in appropriate levels.
Limits are typically based on the nature of the sanctioning teams by geography, industry and or product.
lending and the amount of the portfolio meeting certain standards of underwriting criteria.
Diversification, to reduce concentration risk, is The role of the Central Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines to individual oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Central Risk sets the counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the FRC and the BFRC.
Credit Risk Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit risk is managed together with supporting Credit Risk Monitoring performance and asset quality Policies.
Central Risk also provides technical support, review and Trends in the quality of the Groups loan portfolio are monitored in a validation of credit risk measurement models across the Group.
number of ways including by way of: Reporting Loan loss rate The Group dedicates considerable resources to gaining a clear and The loan loss rate LLR provides Barclays with a way of consistently accurate understanding of credit risk across the business and ensuring monitoring trends in loan portfolio quality at the Group, business and that its balance sheet correctly reflects the value of the assets in product levels.
At Barclays, the LLR represents the annualised accordance with applicable accounting principles.
This process can be impairment charges on loans and advances to customers and banks summarised in five broad stages: and other credit provisions as a percentage of the total, period-end loans and advances to customers and banks, gross of impairment allowances.
Details of the LLR for the current period may be found on the retail credit risk section page 158 and the wholesale credit risk section page 173.
By the end of 2011, the LLR of 77bps had returned to pre-crisis levels and was lower than the long term average.
The LLR has continued to fall in 2012-13 and now stands at 64bps.
Note a Restated to reflect the impact of IFRS10, which results in some Exit Quadrant exposures being recorded at fair value in 2012 and 2013. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 393 Risk management Credit risk management continued Coverage ratios The stage in the economic cycle: Coverage ratios will tend to be The impairment allowance is the aggregate of the identified and lower in the earlier stages of deterioration in credit conditions.
At this unidentified impairment balances.
Impairment allowance coverage, or stage, retail delinquent balances will be predominantly in the early the coverage ratio, is reported at two levels: delinquency cycles and corporate names will have only recently moved to CRL categories.
As such balances attract a lower Credit risk loans CRLs coverage ratio, calculated as impairment impairment requirement, the CRL coverage ratio will be lower: allowances as a percentage of CRL balances: The balance of PPLs to CRLs: The impairment requirements for PPLs Potential credit risk loans coverage ratio impairment allowances as a are lower than for CRLs, so the greater the proportion of PPLs, the percentage of total CRL and Potential Problem Loan PPLs lower the PCRL coverage ratio: and balances : and Write-off policies: The speed with which defaulted assets are written See identifying potential credit risk loans on page 395 for more off will affect coverage ratios.
The more quickly assets are written off, information on the criteria for this category.
the lower the ratios will be, since stock with 100% coverage will tend to roll out of PCRL categories more quickly.
Appropriate coverage ratios will vary according to the type of product but can be broadly shown to have typical severity rates based upon Details of the coverage ratios for the current period are shown in the historic analysis: following chart and may be found in the analysis of loans and advances Secured retail home loans: 5%-25%: and impairment section pages 151 to 157, the retail credit risk section pages 158 to 172 and the wholesale credit risk section pages 173 to 180. Credit cards, unsecured and other personal lending products: 65%-80%: and a CRL coverage Corporate facilities: 30%-50%.
100 Retail Unsecur c ed & Other Corporate & Wholesale Group Retail Home Loans CRL coverage ratios would therefore be expected to be at or around 80 75.5% these levels over a defined period of time.
In principle, a number of factors may affect the Groups coverage ratios, including: 60 54.6% 50.4% The mix of products within total CRL balances: Coverage ratios will 40 tend to be lower when there is a high proportion of secured retail and corporate balances within total CRLs.
This is due to the fact that the 27.7% 20 recovery outlook on these types of exposures is typically higher than retail unsecured products, with the result that they will have lower 0 impairment requirements: December December December December December December a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Whilst the basic principles for monitoring weaknesses in wholesale and retail exposures are broadly similar, they reflect the differing nature of the assets.
As a matter of policy all facilities granted to corporate or wholesale counterparties are subject to a review on, at least, an annual basis, even when they are performing satisfactorily.
Wholesale account status Retail account status Performing Including EWL 1-2, WL 1-3 Performing Current Areas Status 0 Watchlist Committee ags client on the Customer misses contractual payment basis of evidence of financial difficulty and moves to collections function Business Support EWL3, WL3.5 Delinquent Collections Arrears Status 1-6 Customers financial difficulty requires a Customer reaches high arrears status and is moved decision on the form of future relationship to the recovery function where legal action is taken Default Recovery Default Charge-off Recovery Arrears Status 6 Asset is considered irrecoverable and is written off Asset is considered irrecoverable and is written off Write off Note a Balances prior to 2012 have not been restated for the adoption of IFRS 10.
394 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport Business support assists the client to return to in order position Customer pays total overdue payments and returns back to in order position The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information a Wholesale portfolios consistent with the Groups policy of raising a collective impairment Within the wholesale portfolios, the Basel definitions of default are used allowance as soon as objective evidence of impairment is identified.
as default indicators which have been aligned to the IAS 39 objective Retail accounts can be classified according to specified categories of evidence of impairment.
A default is triggered if individual identified arrears status or cycle, which reflects the level of contractual impairment is recognised.
Barclays definitions of default used are: payments which are overdue.
An outstanding balance is deemed to be delinquent when it is one day or one penny down and goes into default 1.
Bank puts the credit obligation on a non-accrued status.
when it moves into recovery, normally 180 days.
Bank makes a charge-off or account specific identified impairment considered from entry into delinquency.
resulting from a significant perceived decline in credit quality.
The probability of default increases with the number of contractual 3.
Bank sells the credit obligation at a material credit-related economic payments missed, thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
Bank consents to a distressed restructuring of the credit obligation Once a loan has passed through a prescribed number of cycles where this is likely to result in a diminished financial obligation normally six it will charge-off and enter recovery status.
Charge-off caused by the material forgiveness or postponement of principal, refers to the point in time when collections activity changes from the interest or fees.
collection of arrears to the recovery of the full balance.
In most cases, charge-off will result in the account moving to a legal recovery function 5.
Bank triggers a petition for obligors bankruptcy or similar order.
This will typically occur after an account has been treated 6.
Bank becomes aware of the obligor having sought or having been by a collections function.
However, in certain cases, an account may be placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would avoid or charged off directly from a performing status, such as in the case of delay repayment of the credit obligation to the banking group.
Bank becomes aware of an acceleration of an obligation by a firm.
The timings of the charge-off points are established based on the type 8.
Where the obligor is a bank revocation of authorisation.
For the majority of products, the standard period for charging off accounts is six cycles 180 days past due date of contractual 9.
Where the obligor is a sovereign trigger of default definition of an obligation.
Early charge-off points are prescribed for unsecured assets.
approved external credit assessment institution i. e. a rating For example, in case of customer bankruptcy or insolvency, associated agency.
accounts are charged off within 60 days of notification.
Obligor past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation to the banking group.
Identifying potential credit risk loans The Group reports potentially and actually impaired loans as Potential Wholesale accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of Credit Risk Loans PCRLs.
PCRLs comprise two categories of loans: risk are recorded on graded early warning lists EWL or watchlists Potential Problem Loans PPLs and Credit Risk Loans CRLs.
WL comprising three categories graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending, and its probability of PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but default.
Examples of heightened levels of risk may include, for example: where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue to comply with such terms in the near future.
If the credit quality of a a material reduction in profits: wholesale loan on an EWL or WL deteriorates to the highest category a material reduction in the value of collateral held: or a retail loan deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2, consideration is given to including it within the PPL category.
a decline in net tangible assets in circumstances which are not satisfactorily explained: or Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move periodic waiver requests or changes to the terms of the credit to the CRL category.
Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan agreement over an extended period of time.
from the PPL to the CRL category include a missed payment or a breach of covenant.
CRLs comprise three classes of loans: These lists are updated monthly and circulated to the relevant risk Impaired loans: comprise loans where an individually identified control points.
Once an account has been placed on WL or EWL, the impairment allowance has been raised and also include loans which exposure is carefully monitored and, where appropriate, exposure are fully collateralised or where indebtedness has already been reductions are effected.
Should an account become impaired, it will written down to the expected realisable value.
This category includes normally, but not necessarily, have passed through each of the three all retail loans that have been charged off to legal recovery.
The categories, which reflect the need for increasing caution and control.
category may include loans, which, while impaired, are still While all obligors, regardless of financial health, are subject to a full performing: review of all facilities on at least an annual basis, more frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Specialist Accruing past due 90 days or more: comprise loans that are 90 days recovery functions deal with clients in higher levels of EWL WL, default, or more past due with respect to principal or interest.
An impairment collection or insolvency.
Their mandate is to maximise shareholder allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected cash value ideally via working intensively with the client to help them to flows discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the either return to financial health or in the cases of insolvency obtain the carrying value: and orderly and timely recovery of impaired debts.
Where an obligors Impaired and restructured loans: comprise loans not included above financial health gives grounds for concern, it is immediately placed into where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial the appropriate category.
difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession results in the Retail portfolios expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate being Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous less than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance will be assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential credit raised.
See Forbearance and other concession programmes on weaknesses to be monitored on a portfolio basis.
The approach is page 400 for more detail.
Note a Includes certain Business Banking facilities which are recorded as Retail for management purposes.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 395 Risk management Credit risk management continued Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions Retail portfolios Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment For retail portfolios, the impairment allowance is mainly assessed on a allowances and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in collective basis and is based on the drawn balances adjusted to take the lending book.
Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised into account the likelihood of the customer defaulting at a particular where there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or point in time PDpit and the amount estimated as not recoverable more loss events that have occurred after initial recognition, and where LGD.
The basic calculation is: these events have had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Impairment of loans Impairment allowance Total outstandings x Probability of Default and receivables is measured as the difference between the carrying PDpit x Loss Given Default LGD amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If the The PDpit increases with the number of contractual payments missed carrying amount is less than the discounted cash flows, then no further thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
In retail, the current policy also incorporates a High Risk segment As one of the controls to ensure that adequate impairment allowances which is included in the unidentified impairment calculation.
High Risk are held, movements in impairment to individual names with a total segments are those which can be demonstrated to experience higher impairment allowance of 25m or more are presented to the Groups risk characteristics when compared to the rest of the performing most senior Credit Committee for agreement, and of 10m-25m to segment.
This segmentation allows for earlier identification of potential the Group Credit Risk Director for his agreement.
Unidentified impairment is also referred to as collective impairment.
This is to reflect the impairment that is Individually assessed impairment collectively held against a pool of assets where a loss event has Impairment allowances are measured individually for assets that are occurred, but has not yet been captured.
individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are Sensitivity of the impairment to key assumptions available.
In terms of individual assessment, the principal trigger point Wholesale portfolios for impairment is the missing of a contractual payment which is Impairment in the wholesale portfolios is generally calculated by evidence that an account is exhibiting serious financial problems, and valuing each impaired asset on a case by case basis, and is not where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Details of therefore primarily model-driven.
As such, the key assumptions that would have the most impact on impairment provisions in the wholesale other trigger points can be found above.
Two key inputs to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and collateral, as well portfolios are the valuations placed upon security and collateral held and the timing of asset realisations.
as the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all attendant costs.
This method applies mainly in the wholesale portfolios.
When calculating impairment, estimated future cashflows are Collectively assessed impairment discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
At present in wholesale portfolios the impact of discounting is relatively For collective assessment, the principal trigger point for impairment is the missing of a contractual payment which is the policy consistently small in itself but would rise with reference rates.
In addition, to the extent that a rise in interest rates impacted upon economic growth adopted across all credit cards, unsecured loans, mortgages and most other retail lending.
Details of other trigger points can be found above.
and or serviceability of wholesale clients and customers, this would be expected to feed through in future impairment numbers.
The calculation methodology relies on the historical experience of pools of similar assets: hence the impairment allowance is collective.
In 2013, key judgements were made on a number of identified cases The impairment calculation is typically based on a roll-rate approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the initial delinquency within Investment Bank, Corporate Banking and Wealth and Investment Management.
No material changes were made to the unidentified to default is derived from statistical probabilities based on historical experience.
Recovery amounts are calculated using a weighted average impairment in 2013. for the relevant portfolio.
This method applies mainly to the retail portfolios and is consistent with Barclays policy of raising an allowance Retail portfolios For retail portfolios, impairment is calculated, predominantly using as soon as impairment is identified.
Unidentified impairment is also included in collective impairment.
The models are developed using historical data and include explicit and implicit assumptions such as debt sale estimates, house Impairment for losses incurred but not specifically identified price valuations and the distribution of accounts.
Model monitoring and validation are undertaken regularly, at least annually, to ensure that Unidentified impairment allowances are also raised to cover losses which are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in models are fit for purpose.
Further to this, Barclays accounts for the impact of changes in the economic environment and lags resulting customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, have not been specifically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported from the design of the models to ensure overall impairment adequacy.
See Management adjustments to models for impairment page 159 calculation is based on the assets probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically identified as impaired within for more information on key management judgements in 2013.
See Stress testing page 388 for further information.
the given emergence period and then on to default within a specified period, termed as the outcome period.
This is calculated on the present Emergence and outcome periods value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets effective interest rate.
The emergence and outcome periods vary across To develop models to calculate the allowance for impairment it is first necessary to estimate the time horizons of these models.
horizons are called the emergence and outcome periods.
Emergence period is the time it takes for an account that is likely to be impaired Wholesale portfolios Impairment in the wholesale portfolios is generally calculated by but not yet identified as such, to move from the performing to the impaired segment.
Outcome period is the time it takes for a retail valuing each impaired asset on a case by case basis, i. e. on an individual assessment basis.
A relatively small amount of wholesale account to move from the impaired segment to the default segment.
impairment relates to unidentified or collective impairment: in such cases impairment is calculated using modelled Probability of Default PD x Loss Given Default LGD x Exposure at Default EAD adjusted for an emergence period.
396 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information This methodology ensures that the Group captures the loss incurred at Returning assets to a performing status the correct balance sheet date.
These impairment allowances are Wholesale portfolios reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly by an appropriate charge or In wholesale portfolios, an account may only be returned to a release of the stock of impairment allowances based on statistical performing status when it ceases to have any actual or perceived analysis and management judgement.
The accuracy of this analysis financial stress and no longer meets any of the EWL WL criteria, or is periodically assessed against actual losses.
once facilities have been fully repaid or cancelled.
Unless a facility is fully repaid or cancelled, the decision in Corporate Banking to return an Wholesale portfolios account to performing status may only be taken by the business credit For wholesale portfolios in Corporate Banking and Investment Bank, risk, while within the Investment Bank, the decision can only be taken the emergence period is portfolio specific and is based on the by the Investment Bank WatchList Committee.
anticipated length of time from the occurrence of a loss event to identified impairment being incurred.
The emergence period in Retail portfolios Corporate Banking is derived from actual case file review.
This has also A retail asset, prior to charge-off may only be returned to a performing been benchmarked against the time taken to move between risk grades status in the following circumstances: in internal watch lists, from EWL1 or 2 into EWL3 which is the level of 1.
All arrears both capital and interest have been cleared and risk that will attract a collective impairment allowance.
Both payments have returned to original contractual payments: methodologies produce similar results for the emergence period, which is currently three months.
The average life of the Investment Bank 2.
For revolving products, a re-age event see page 402 has occurred, portfolio is estimated to be 18 months, during which time Investment when the customer is returned to an up to date status without Bank is exposed to losses on the portfolio.
However, it is expected that having cleared the requisite level of arrears: incurred losses would become apparent within six months, therefore 3.
For amortising products excluding residential mortgages, a small the Investment Bank used a six-month emergence period.
arrears capitalisation event has occurred, where the customer is returned to an up to date status without having cleared the requisite Retail portfolios level of arrears: and For retail portfolios, minimum emergence periods and outcome periods are defined at a product level.
Emergence and outcome periods at 4.
For amortising products, which are performing on a programme of 31 December 2013 for the main retail products are as shown in the Forbearance and meet the following criteria may be returned to the a table below: performing book classified as High Risk : a No interest rate concessions must have been granted: Minimum emergence periods b Restructure must remain within original product parameters Product type original term extension : Emergence Outcome c 12 consecutive payments at the revised contractual payment period period months months amount must have been received post the Restructure event.
Mortgages 6 12 For residential mortgages, accounts may also be considered for Credit cards 3 6 rehabilitation post charge-off, where customer circumstances have Personal loans, overdrafts & other secured changed.
The customer must clear all unpaid capital and interest and loans 3 6 confirm their ability to meet full payments going forward.
Business banking arrears managed commercial mortgages 6 12 Recovery units Business banking arrears managed nonRecovery units are responsible for exposures where deterioration of the commercial mortgages 3 6 client credit profile is severe to the extent that timely or full recovery of Business banking EWL managed 3 12 exposure is considered unlikely and default has occurred or is likely in Mortgages under forbearance n a 24 the short-term.
Recovery teams set and implement strategies to All unsecured products under forbearance n a 12 recover the Banks exposure through realisation of assets and collateral Business banking EWL managed under in cooperation with clients and where this is not possible through forbearance n a 24 insolvency and legal procedures.
Outcome periods are tested periodically at least annually against the In Wholesale, for a case to be transferred to a recovery unit it must be actual time elapsing from the initial indication of potential default to in default and have ceased to actively trade through the bank account the default event.
When necessary, the outcome period is adjusted to or be in insolvency.
In Retail, the timings of the charge-off points to reflect our most up-to-date experience of customer behaviour.
recovery units are established based on the type of loan.
For the majority of products, the standard period for charging off accounts is The emergence period for Credit Cards products has been raised to six missed contractual payments 180 days past due date of three months to align it with the approach adopted for other retail contractual obligation unless a Forbearance programme is agreed.
Given the minimum emergence period Early charge-off points are prescribed for unsecured assets.
For possible is one month, the period was moved to three months based example, in case of customer bankruptcy or insolvency, associated on expert judgement, with a lower emergence period permitted only on accounts are charged off within 60 days of notification.
See recovery a case by case basis where supported by analytical evidence.
information included in Portfolio reviews on page 165.
In addition please refer to Foreclosures in process and properties in possession on page 167.
Note a The identification and subsequent treatment of up-to-date customers who, either through an event or observed behaviour exhibit potential financial difficulty.
High Risk must also include customers who have suffered recent financial dislocation, i. e. prior forbearance or re-age.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 397 Risk management Credit risk management continued Writing off assets Netting and set-off Write-off refers to the point where it is determined that the asset is In many jurisdictions in which Barclays operates, credit risk exposures irrecoverable, it is no longer considered economically viable to try and can be reduced by applying netting and set-off.
In exposure terms, this recover the asset, it is deemed immaterial, or full and final settlement is credit risk mitigation technique is used mainly in derivative transactions reached and a shortfall remains.
In the event of write-off, the customer with financial institutions and has the largest overall impact on net balance is removed from the balance sheet and the impairment reserve exposure to derivative financial instruments compared with other risk held against the asset is released.
The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of For derivative transactions, Barclays will often seek to enter into subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted standard master agreements with counterparties e. g. ISDA.
These by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or master agreements allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a other formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that counterparty resulting from a derivative transaction against Barclays some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In obligations to the counterparty in the event of default, to produce a any event, the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly lower net credit exposure.
These agreements may also reduce to ensure that irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt settlement exposure e. g. for foreign exchange transactions by and orderly manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
allowing for payments on the same day in the same currency to be set off against one another.
For Retail portfolios, the timings of the write-off points are established based on the type of loan.
For unsecured assets, write-off must occur In the majority of its portfolios, Barclays uses the Internal Model within 12 months after charge-off if no payment has been received for Method IMM to calculate counterparty credit risk exposures.
For secured loans, the shortfall after the receipt of the proceeds from the disposal of the collateral is written off within three Collateral months of that date if no repayment schedule has been agreed with The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of the borrower.
Such assets are only written off once all the necessary the borrower or other counterparty, comprising: procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been Home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form of determined.
houses, flats and other dwellings.
The value of collateral is impacted by property market conditions which drive demand and therefore Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written value of the property.
Other regulatory interventions on ability to back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment repossess, longer period to repossession and granting of forbearance charge in the income statement.
In 2013, total write-offs of impaired may also affect the collateral value: financial assets decreased 19% to 3,343m 2012: 4,119m.
Wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and Total write offs of impaired financial assets m other physical assets, in various forms: Other retail lending: includes charges over motor vehicle and other 2013 3,343 physical assets: second lien charge over residential property, which is subordinate to first charge held either by the Group or by another 2012 4,119 party: and finance lease receivables, for which typically the Group 2011 retains legal title to the leased asset and has the right to repossess 5,165 the asset on the default of the borrower: 2010 4,310 Derivatives: Barclays also often seeks to enter into a Credit Support Annex CSA with counterparties with which Barclays has master 2009 3,380 agreements in place.
These annexes to master agreements provide a mechanism for further reducing credit risk, whereby collateral 2008 2,919 margin is posted on a regular basis typically daily or weekly to collateralise the mark-to-market exposure of a derivative portfolio: Reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly Credit risk mitigation audited liquid securities which have been legally transferred to Barclays Barclays employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price: and mitigate credit risks to which it is exposed.
These can broadly be Financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: divided into three types: cash collateral may be held against these arrangements.
Netting and set-off: For details of the fair value of collateral held please refer to Maximum Collateral: and exposure table on page 143.
For detail of collateral in credit portfolios see pages 166 to 178.
In exposure terms, the main portfolios that Barclays takes collateral for Barclays has detailed policies in place to ensure that credit risk mitigation is appropriately recognised and recorded.
The recognition of are home loans and reverse repurchase agreements with financial institutions.
credit risk mitigation is subject to a number of considerations, including ensuring legal certainty of enforceability and effectiveness, Floating charges over receivables ensuring the valuation and liquidity of the collateral is adequately monitored, and ensuring the value of the collateral is not materially The Group may also obtain collateral in the form of floating charges over receivables and inventory of corporate and other business customers.
correlated with the credit quality of the obligor.
The value of this collateral varies from period to period depending on the level of receivables and inventory.
It is impracticable to provide an All three types of credit risk mitigation may be used by different areas of the Group for exposures with a full range of counterparties.
For estimate of the amount fair value or nominal value of this collateral.
The Group may in some cases obtain collateral and other enhancements instance, Investment Bank, Corporate Banking and other business areas may all take property, cash or other physical assets as collateral at a counterparty level, which are not specific to a particular class of financial instrument.
The fair value of the credit enhancement gained for exposures to retailers, property companies or other client types.
has been apportioned across the relevant asset classes.
398 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Collateral for derivative contracts In Wholesale, monitoring is undertaken by individuals who are not part The collateral obtained for derivatives is predominantly either cash, of the sales relationship part of the business.
The monitoring may be direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the a desktop assessment and need not necessarily include physical domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals assessment of properties.
Where an appropriate local index is not or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured available, property values are monitored on an individual basis as part debt rating of A A3 or better.
Where the Group has ISDA master of the annual review process for the loan.
For larger loans, in addition agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA CSA.
The to the regular annual review, the property value is reviewed by an collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any independent valuer at least once every three years.
This review is a collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty.
more detailed assessment than the standard property monitoring review, and may include a fresh professional valuation.
In addition, an Valuation of collateral and impact of market moves independent valuer reviews the property valuation where information Typically assets other than cash are subject to regular revaluation for indicates that the value of the property may have declined materially example via physical review, linking to an external index or depreciation relative to general market prices.
In addition, trigger points are defined of the asset to ensure they continue to achieve appropriate mitigation under which property values must be reviewed.
Customer agreements often include requirements for provision of additional collateral should valuations decline or credit exposure Valuation of collateral distressed assets increase, for example due to market moves impacting a derivative The net realisable value from a distressed sale of collateral obtained by exposure.
the Group upon default or insolvency of counterparty will in some cases be lower than the carrying value recognised above.
Assets The carrying value of non-cash collateral reflects the fair value of the obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an physical assets limited to the carrying value of the asset where the orderly manner for the maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower exposure is over-collateralised.
In certain cases where active markets or and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant recent valuations of the assets are not available, estimates are used.
For business customers, in some assets collateralised by residential or commercial property and certain circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full other physical assets, where it is not practicable to assess current of the outstanding loan, they are offered to any other, lower ranked, market valuations of each underlying property, values reflect historical secured lenders.
Any additional funds are returned to the customer.
fair values updated for movements in appropriate external indices.
For Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed properties for its further information on LTV ratios in principal home loans portfolios, see business use or use assets obtained in its operations.
the Retail Credit Risk section on page 166.
Additional revaluations are usually performed when a loan is moved to Liens over fluctuating assets such as inventory and trade receivables, EWL or WL.
Exceptions to this may be considered where it is clear a known as floating charges, over the assets of a borrower are monitored revaluation is not necessary, for instance where there is a very high margin of security or a recent valuation has been undertaken.
The valuation of this type of collateral takes into account the ability to establish objectively a price or market value, the Conversely, a material reduction in the value of collateral held represents an increase in credit risk and will often cause a loan to be frequency with which the value can be obtained including a professional appraisal or valuation, and the volatility or a proxy for the placed on the EWL or WL.
volatility of the value of the collateral.
Any one of the above events may also trigger a test for impairment, depending on individual circumstances of the loan.
When calculating For assets collateralised by traded financial instruments, values reflect mark to market or mark to model values of those assets, applying a impairment, the difference between an assets carrying amount and the present value of all estimated cash flows discounted at the original haircut where appropriate.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on effective interest rate will be recognised as impairment.
Such cash flows include the estimated fair value of the collateral which reflects the liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
results of the monitoring and review of collateral values as detailed above and valuations undertaken as part of our impairment process.
Valuation of collateral property When property is taken as collateral it is monitored to ensure that the Whether property values are updated as part of the annual review current value is not less than its value at origination.
Monitoring is undertaken annually for commercial property or via linking to an process, or by indexation of collateral values, the updated collateral values feed into the calculation of risk parameters which, in turn, feed external index for residential property.
More frequent monitoring may be carried out where the property sector is subject to significant into identified and unidentified impairment calculations at each balance sheet date.
Trends in loan loss rates incorporate the impact of any decrease in the Deterioration is monitored principally by geography.
Specific exercises to monitor property values may be undertaken where the property fair value of collateral held.
sector in a given geography has been subject to significant deterioration and where Barclays has a material concentration of Collateral regulatory capital benefit Where regulatory capital is calculated under advanced IRB regulations property collateral.
the benefit of collateral is generally taken by adjusting LGDs.
For standardised portfolios the benefit of collateral is taken using the Monitoring may be undertaken either a portfolio level Retail or at the level of an individual property Wholesale.
financial collateral comprehensive method: supervisory volatility adjustments approach.
In Retail businesses, monitoring on a portfolio level refers to a more frequent process of indexing collateral values on each individual loan, using a regional or national index, and updating LGD values.
This monitoring may be a desktop assessment and need not necessarily include physical assessment of properties.
In the event of charge-off, an individual valuation of the property is undertaken within three months of the charge-off event and subsequently undertaken at least every six months whilst in charge-off.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 399 Risk management Credit risk management continued Risk transfer The following list is not exhaustive but provides some examples of A range of instruments including guarantees, credit insurance, credit instances that would typically be considered to be evidence of derivatives and securitisation can be used to transfer credit risk from forbearance: one counterparty to another.
These mitigate credit risk in two main A reduction of current contractual interest rate for the sole purpose ways: of maintaining performing debt status with no other improvement to if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more credit worthy terms of benefit to the Bank: than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk will have been Non-enforcement of a material covenant breach impacting the reduced: and borrowers ability to repay: where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties Converting a fully or partially amortising facility to bullet repayment must default before a loss materialises.
This will be less likely than at maturity with no other improvement to terms of benefit to the the default of either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced.
Bank for the sole purpose of avoiding a payment default due to customers inability to meet amortisation: Risk transfer can also be used to reduce risk concentrations within portfolios lowering the impact of stress events.
Extension in maturity date for a project finance facility that gives an effective contractual term longer than the underlying project contract Risk transfer transactions are undertaken with consideration to being financed: and, whether the collateral provider is correlated with the exposure, the Any release of a material security interest without receiving credit worthiness of the collateral provider and legal certainty of appropriate value by way of repayment alternate security offered or enforceability and effectiveness.
Where credit risk mitigation is deemed other improvement in terms available to the Bank commensurate to transfer credit risk this exposure is appropriately recorded against with the value of the security released.
the credit risk mitigation provider.
Where a concession is granted that is not a result of financial difficulty In exposure terms, risk transfer is used most extensively as a credit risk and or is within our current market terms, the concession would not mitigation technique for wholesale loans and derivative financial amount to forbearance.
For example, a commercially balanced instruments.
restructure within our current terms which involves Barclays granting concessions and receiving risk mitigation structural enhancement of For instruments that are deemed to transfer credit risk, in advanced IRB benefit to Barclays would not be indicative of forbearance.
portfolios the protection is generally recognised by using the PD and LGD of the protection provider.
The following list not exhaustive gives some examples of instances that would not typically be considered to be forbearance: Off-balance sheet risk mitigation The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies Temporary permanent waivers resets of covenants agreed in line for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks.
In with our current terms: the case of commitments to lend, customers and counterparties will be Amending contractual maturity to meet current lending terms that subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and results in a previously amortising facility having a bullet repayment as advances.
Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the a consequence of shorter maturity date: counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
Equity warrants taken to increase return to the Bank without compromising contractual interest: Forbearance and other concession programmes Extension of maturity date where the extension is within the Forbearance programmes normally granted terms for the type of facility in question: and Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a facility in response to an obligors financial difficulties.
The Release of a material security interest where commensurate value is Group offers forbearance programmes to assist customers and clients received by way of repayment other security offered.
in financial difficulty through agreements that may include accepting less than contractual amounts due where financial distress would Cases where a technical default may have occurred, the Bank has otherwise prevent satisfactory repayment within the original terms and decided to reserve its position but does not consider the default to be conditions of the contract.
These agreements may be initiated by the sufficient to impact the borrowers ability to pay, would not typically be customer, Barclays or a third party.
considered forbearance as the borrower would continue to meet its payment obligations under existing terms.
Forbearance programmes for wholesale portfolios Wholesale client relationships are individually managed with lending The Group WL EWL and Forbearance Policy requires that a permanent decisions made with reference to specific circumstances and on record is retained of all individual cases of forbearance, and upon bespoke terms.
granting forbearance the obligor is placed on WL EWL.
The obligor then remains on WL EWL and is flagged as being in forbearance for a Forbearance occurs when Barclays, for reasons relating to the actual or minimum of 12 months from the date forbearance is applied.
Obligors perceived financial difficulty of an obligor, grants a concession below may be removed from WL EWL status in less than 12 months in current Barclays standard rates i. e. lending criteria below the Groups exceptional circumstances, e. g. full repayment of facilities or significant current lending terms, that would not otherwise be considered.
Obligors placed on WL EWL status are subject to includes all troubled debt restructures granted below our standard increased levels of credit risk oversight.
Obligors who have been granted forbearance are classified as a Basel Forbearance would typically be evident where the concession s agreed unlikeliness to pay default for capital purposes with PD of 1 impact the ability to repay debt or avoid recognising a default with a throughout the period that they remain classified as being in lack of appropriate commercial balance and risk mitigation structural forbearance.
This is on the basis that without intervention by Barclays enhancement of benefit to Barclays in return for concession s. the obligor is unlikely to meet its obligations in full which would lead to default.
400 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Impairment is assessed on an individual basis and recognised where Barclays would not consider a retail loan to be renegotiated where the relevant impairment triggers have been reached including where amendment is at the request of the customer, there is no evidence of customers are in arrears and require renegotiation of terms.
actual or imminent financial difficulty and the amendment meets with Forbearance is considered to be an indicator that impairment may be all Barclays underwriting criteria.
In this case it would be treated as a present and an impairment test is performed for all cases placed in new loan.
In the normal course of business, customers who are not in forbearance.
financial difficulties frequently apply for new loan terms, for example to take advantage of a lower interest rate or to secure a further advance Given that these loans have already been assessed for impairment at on a mortgage product.
Where these applications meet our the point of being classified as being in forbearance, Barclays does not underwriting criteria and the loan is made at market interest rates, the have additional procedures to evaluate the likelihood that these loans loan is not classified as being in forbearance.
Only in circumstances would default within the loss emergence and confirmation periods.
where a customer has requested a term extension, interest rate reduction or further advance and there is evidence of financial difficulty A control framework exists along with regular sampling to ensure is the loan classified as forbearance and included in our disclosures on watch list and impairment policies are enforced as defined and to forbearance.
ensure that all assets have suitable levels of impairment applied.
Portfolios are subject to independent assessment.
Impairment of loans under forbearance Loans under forbearance programmes are subject to Group Aggregate data for wholesale forbearance cases is reviewed by the Impairment Policy.
In both retail and wholesale portfolios, identified Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee.
impairment is raised for such accounts, recognising the agreement between the Bank and customer to pay less than the original Please see the Wholesale Credit risk section in the Risk review contractual payment and is measured using a future discounted cash pages 175 and 176 for details of loans currently in forbearance.
flow approach comparing the debt outstanding to the expected repayment on the debt.
This results in higher impairment, in general, Forbearance programmes for retail portfolios being held for loans under forbearance than for fully performing assets, Retail forbearance is available to customers experiencing financial reflecting the additional credit risk attached to loans subject to difficulties.
Forbearance solutions take a number of forms depending forbearance.
Short-term solutions focus on temporary reductions to contractual payments and may change from Sustainability of loans under forbearance capital and interest payments to interest only.
For customers with The Group closely monitors the sustainability of loans for which longer-term financial difficulties, term extensions may be offered, forbearance has been granted.
which may include interest rate concessions.
For customers with longer-term financial difficulties, term extensions may be offered, Wholesale portfolios which may include interest rate concessions and a switch to fully In the wholesale portfolios, customers that have been granted amortising balances for card portfolios.
forbearance are placed on WL EWL and therefore subject to increased levels of credit risk oversight.
Obligors then remain on WL EWL and are When an account is placed into a programme of forbearance, the asset classified as being in forbearance with a PD of 1 for capital purposes for will be classified as such for the remainder of its term, unless after 12 a minimum of 12 months from the date forbearance is applied until months it qualifies for reclassification, upon which it will be returned to satisfactory performance is evidenced.
Forbearance status and the related default treatment for capital can be removed after 12 months the up to date book and classified as High Risk for a further 12 month period.
When Barclays agrees to a forbearance programme with a from being applied if any of the following criteria is met: customer, the impairment allowance recognises the impact on The customer no longer benefits from a concession below our cash-flows of the agreement to receive less than the original current market rates or reverts back to their original lending terms contractual payments.
The Retail Impairment Policy prescribes the prior to the concession being applied : methodology for impairment of forbearance assets, which is measured by comparing the debt outstanding to the revised expected repayment.
The customer ceases to have any actual or perceived financial stress: This results in higher impairment, in general, than for fully performing or assets, reflecting the additional credit risk attached to loans subject to A significant restructure takes place which leads to a significant forbearance.
improvement in the credit profile of the customer.
During 2013, Barclays continued to assist customers in financial Obligors may only be removed from being classified as being in difficulty through the use of forbearance programmes.
However, the forbearance with a PD of 1 for capital purposes in less than 12 months extent of forbearance offered by the Group to customers and clients in exceptional circumstances, e. g. full repayment of facilities or remains small in comparison to the overall size of the loan book.
significant restructuring that materially improves credit quality.
Customers continuing to benefit from a concession below current Forbearance on the Groups principal portfolios in UK, US, Europe, and market can be removed from EWL WL and no longer be classified as South Africa are presented in the Retail Credit risk section of the Risk in forbearance provided they do not meet any of the EWL WL criteria review.
See forbearance programmes on principal cards, overdrafts, and can evidence consistent satisfactory performance throughout the unsecured loans, home loans and business lending portfolios on minimum 12 month period.
pages 161 to 164 for more details of assets currently in forbearance.
The level of forbearance extended to customers in other retail Retail portfolios portfolios is not material and, typically, does not currently play a In retail portfolios, the type of forbearance programme offered should significant part in the way customer relationships are managed.
be appropriate to the nature and the expected duration of the However, additional portfolios will be added to this disclosure should customers financial distress.
It is imperative that the solution agreed is the forbearance in respect of such portfolios become material.
both appropriate to that customer and sustainable, with a clear demonstration from the customer of both willingness and ability to repay.
Before any permanent programme of forbearance is granted, an affordability assessment is undertaken to ensure suitability of the offer.
When customers exit forbearance, the accounts are ring-fenced as a high risk segment within the up to date book for a period of at least 12 months.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 401 Risk management Credit risk management continued For disclosure on the Groups accounting policy with respect to Commercial Real Estate loans will frequently incorporate a bullet impairment, see Note 7 and the Reporting section on page 393. repayment element at maturity.
Where this is the case, deals are sized and structured to enable Barclays to term out the loan if the client were Other programmes unable to refinance the loan at expiry.
Credit review will incorporate an Retail re-aging activity examination of various factors that are central to this consideration, Re-aging refers to the placing of an account into an up-to-date position such as tenant quality, tenancy agreements including break clauses without the requisite repayment of arrears.
The re-age policy applies to and interest rate sensitivity.
No reduction is made to the minimum due payment amounts which are calculated, as a percentage of balance, Loans to SMEs will typically be either revolving credit lines to cover with any unpaid principal included in the calculation of the following working capital needs or amortising exposures, with periodic months minimum due payment.
refinancing to give the opportunity to review structure, pricing, etc.
The changes in timing of cash flows following re-aging do not result in Please refer to the maturity analysis for UK CRE, customers with any additional cost to Barclays.
The following are the conditions interest only home loans and Spanish corporate exposure in the Risk required to be met before a re-age may occur: review on pages 172 and 177 for more information.
The account must not have been previously charged off or written Derivative exposures off: Derivative counterparty credit exposures The borrower cannot be bankrupt, subject to an Individual Voluntary The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or Arrangement a UK contractual arrangement with creditors for cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and individuals wishing to avoid bankruptcy, a fraud or deceased: options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide The borrower must show a renewed willingness and ability to repay margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the the debt.
This will be achieved by the borrower making at least three holders look for ultimate settlement.
consecutive contractual monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount.
Contractual monthly payment is defined as the The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded contractual minimum due.
Funds may not be advanced for any part over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These of this: instruments range from standardised transactions in derivative markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the The account must have been on book at least nine months i. e. nine requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry months prior to the three month qualification period : and standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a No account should be re-aged more than once within any 12 month master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The period, or more than twice in a five year period.
existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection in situations where counterparty is in default.
Barclays considers assets are considered to belong to a separate High Risk pool.
Under High Risk, the performance of the assets is a risk Counterparty credit exposure arises from the risk that parties are characteristic and results in a higher probability of default being unable to meet their payment obligations under certain financial assigned to them in impairment models which meet the requirement of contracts such as derivatives, securities financing transactions e. g. IAS 39, AG87-88.
This results in an appropriately higher impairment repurchase agreements, or long settlement transactions.
allowance being recognised on the assets.
See Re-age in Risk review section on page 170 for more information.
Internal capital for counterparty credit risk is assessed and allocated based on the economic capital for wholesale credit risk calculation.
The Retail small arrears capitalisation magnitude of the exposure is determined by considering the current Small arrears capitalisation is available for amortising products with the mark to market of the contract, the historic volatility of the underlying exception of residential mortgages.
This refers to the capitalisation of asset and the time to maturity.
This allows calculation of a Credit small levels of arrears up to 90 days past due, together with either a Equivalent Exposure CEE for such exposures.
The total economic corresponding term extension or increase to contractual monthly capital for a portfolio of such exposures is then calculated in a manner payment without the requirement to classify the accounts as similar to a book of loans.
Contractual monthly payments must not be reduced.
The small arrears capitalisation activity is also subject to the conditions Wrong-way risk in a trading exposure arises when there is significant outlined above under retail re-aging activity, being met.
Any correlation between the underlying asset and the counterparty, which capitalisation event exceeding this must be executed under the in the event of default would lead to a significant mark to market loss.
direction of the Forbearance policy.
When assessing the credit exposure of a wrong-way trade, analysts take into account the correlation between the counterparty and the underlying asset as part of the sanctioning process.
Refinancing risk This is the risk that the borrower or group of correlated borrowers may Adjustments to the calculated CEE are considered on a case by case be unable to roll or repay bullet repayment loans at expiry, and will basis.
In the case of specific wrong-way risk trades, which are therefore need refinancing.
self-referencing or reference other entities within the same counterparty, specific approval by a senior credit officer is required.
From a Wholesale perspective, refinancing risk will typically be associated with loans that have an element of bullet repayment incorporated into the repayment profile.
Refinancing risk is taken into account on a case by case basis as part of the credit review and approval process for each individual loan.
The review will consider factors such as the strength of the business model and sustainability of the cash flows and for bridge loans the review will also include an evaluation of the market risk.
402 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Derivative netting and collateral arrangements In order to calculate the Expected Exposure, the expected mark to Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting market is calculated using Monte Carlo simulations of risk factors that agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same may affect the valuation of the derivative.
These simulations include counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting credit mitigants such as exposure netting, collateral, mandatory break arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement clauses and set-off clauses.
Counterparties with appropriate credit is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting over the counter mitigants will generate a lower Expected Exposure profile compared to OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which counterparties without credit mitigants in place for the same derivative dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted transactions.
and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party Environmental risk defaults or other predetermined events occur.
The majority of the Barclays has a dedicated Environmental Risk Management team which Groups OTC derivative exposures are covered by ISDA master netting is a part of the central Credit Risk Management function in Group Risk, and ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA collateral agreements.
recognising that environment is a mainstream credit risk issue.
Environmental issues are required considerations in credit risk Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the assessment, and environmental risk policies are explicitly referenced in creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
the Credit Facility Sanctioning Standards.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut, which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral Barclays approach to environmental credit risk management addresses agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each risk under any of three categories: type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for Direct risk can arise when the Bank takes commercial land as derivatives is predominantly either cash, direct debt obligation collateral.
In many jurisdictions, enforcement of a commercial government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of mortgage by the bank, leading to possession, potentially renders the the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit Bank liable for the costs of remediating a site if deemed by the issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A regulator to be contaminated, including for pre-existing conditions.
Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the the UK, the Groups approach requires commercial land, if being collateral document will be the ISDA CSA.
The collateral document pledged as collateral, to be subject to a screening mechanism.
must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in Assessment of the commercial history of a piece of land and its the event of the failure of the counterparty.
potential for environmental contamination helps ensure any potential environmental degradation is reflected in the value ascribed to that Under IFRS, netting is permitted only if both of the following criteria are security.
It also identifies potential liabilities which may be incurred by satisfied: the Bank, if realisation of the security were to become a possibility.
the entity currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts: and Indirect risk can arise when environmental issues may impact the creditworthiness of the borrower.
For instance, incremental costs may the entity intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset be incurred in upgrading a business operations to meet emerging and settle the liability simultaneously.
environmental regulations or tightening standards.
In other circumstances, failure to meet those standards may lead to fines.
Derivative counterparty credit risk measurement Environmental impacts on businesses may also include shifts in the Credit Value Adjustments market demand for goods or services generated by our customers, or As Barclays participates in derivative transactions it is exposed to changing supply chain pressures.
Environmental considerations counterparty credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty will fail to affecting our clients can be varied.
The bank has developed a series of make the future payments agreed in the derivative contract.
This is environmental risk briefing notes, covering ten broad industry headings considered as a separate risk to the volatility of the mark to market ranging from Agriculture and Fisheries to Oil and Gas, from Mining and payment flows.
Modelling this counterparty risk is an important part of Metals to Utilities and Waste Management.
These briefing notes are managing credit risk on derivative transactions.
available to colleagues in business development and credit risk functions across the organisation, outlining the nature of The counterparty risk arising under derivative transactions is taken into environmental and social risks of which to be aware, as well as the account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions.
The factors which mitigate those risks.
adjustment to the value is known as Credit Value Adjustment CVA.
It is the difference between the value of a derivative contract with a risk Reputation risk may arise and cause damage to the Banks image, free counterparty and that of a contract with the actual counterparty.
through association with clients, their transactions or projects if these This is equivalent to the cost of hedging the counterparty risk, which is are perceived by external stakeholders to be environmentally replicated by purchasing and selling credit default swaps CDS on the damaging.
Where the Bank is financing infrastructure projects which counterparty to create a hedge position that mirrors the expected have potentially adverse environmental impacts the Groups exposure profile for the counterparty.
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA policy will apply.
This policy identifies the circumstances in which the Bank requires due CVAs for derivative positions are calculated as a function of the diligence to include assessment of specialist environmental reports.
expected exposure, which is the average of future hypothetical These reports will include consideration of a wide range of the projects exposure values or mark-to-market for a single transaction or group potential impacts including on air, water and land quality, on of transactions by the same counterparty, and the CDS spread for a biodiversity issues, on locally affected communities, including any given horizon.
material upstream and downstream impacts, and working conditions together with employee and community health and safety.
Adherence to the Group ESIA policy is the mechanism by which Barclays fulfils the requirements of the Equator Principles.
These Principles are an internationally recognised framework for environmental due diligence in project finance.
Barclays was one of the four banks which collaborated in developing the Principles, ahead of their launch in 2003 with 10 adopting banks.
There are now over 75 banks worldwide which have adopted the Equator Principles see www.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 403 Risk management Credit risk management continued Further details on the Barclays approach to environmental risk impaired loans that are individually assessed consist predominantly management can be found at Barclays.
com, in the section on of wholesale loans that are past due and for which an individual Citizenship: the way we do business, Managing Social and allowance has been raised: and Environmental Risk in Lending.
impaired loans that are collectively assessed consist predominantly of retail loans that are one day or more past due for which a Asset credit quality collective allowance is raised.
Wholesale loans that are past due, individually assessed as unimpaired, but which carry an unidentified All loans and advances are categorised as either neither past due nor impairment provision, are excluded from this category.
impaired: past due but not impaired: or impaired, which includes restructured loans.
For the purposes of the disclosures in the balance Home loans and credit card receivables that are subject to forbearance sheet credit quality section page 149 and the analysis of loans and in the retail portfolios are included in the collectively assessed impaired advances and impairment section page 151 : loans column in the tables in the Analysis of loans and advances and a loan is considered past due when the borrower has failed to make a impairment section page 151.
Included within wholesale loans that payment when due under the terms of the loan contract: are neither past due nor impaired are a portion of loans that have been subject to forbearance or similar strategies as part of the Groups the impairment allowance includes allowances against financial ongoing relationship with clients.
The loans will have an internal rating assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to reflective of the level of risk to which the Group is exposed, bearing in collective impairment: mind the circumstances of the forbearance and the overall loans neither past due nor impaired consist predominantly of performance and prospects of the client.
Loans on forbearance wholesale and retail loans that are performing.
These loans, although programmes will typically, but not always, attract a higher risk rating unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment: than similar loans which are not.
A portion of wholesale loans under forbearance is included in the past due but not impaired column, loans that are past due but not impaired consist predominantly of although not all loans subject to forbearance are necessarily impaired wholesale loans that are past due but individually assessed as not or past due.
Where wholesale loans under forbearance have been being impaired.
These loans, although individually assessed as impaired, these form part of individually assessed impaired loans.
unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment provision: Retail Wholesale lending lending Probability Probability Credit quality description of default of default Default grade Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05% 1-3 0.05-0.15% 4-5 0.15-0.30% 6-8 0.30-0.60% 9-11 Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15% 12-14 2.15-11.35% 15-19 Higher risk 10.00% 11.35% 20-21 For loans that are performing, these descriptions can be summarised as Loans that are past due are monitored closely, with impairment allowances raised as appropriate and in line with the Groups follows: impairment policies.
These loans are all considered Higher Risk for the purpose of this analysis of credit quality.
Strong: there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full: Debt securities Satisfactory: while there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and, therefore, is of no current cause for concern to the For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to facilities such as unsecured loans and credit card balances: and and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Higher risk: there is concern over the obligors ability to make Poors or Moodys.
Where such ratings are not available or are not payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
There may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
404 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
