The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk review Risk factors Credit risk The following information describes the material The financial condition of the Groups customers, clients and risks which the Group believes could cause its counterparties, including governments and other financial future results of operations, financial condition institutions, could adversely affect the Group and prospects to differ materially from current The Group may suffer financial loss if any of its customers, clients or expectations.
Certain of the risks described below market counterparties fails to fulfil their contractual obligations to the also have the potential to adversely impact the Group.
The Group may also suffer loss when the value of the Groups Groups reputation and brand which could have a investment in the financial instruments of an entity falls as a result of that entitys credit rating being downgraded.
In addition, the Group material adverse effect on the Groups results of may incur significant unrealised gains or losses due solely to changes operations, financial condition and prospects, in the Groups credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes including the ability to meet dividend may affect the fair value of the Groups derivative instruments, debt expectations, ability to maintain appropriate levels securities that the Group holds or issues, or any loans held at fair value.
of capital and meet capital and leverage ratio Deteriorating economic conditions expectations, or achieve stated targets and other The Group may continue to be adversely affected by the uncertainty expected benefits.
around the global economy and the economies of certain areas where Barclays has operations, as well as areas which may have an impact on Additional risks relating to the Group that are not the global economy.
The Groups performance is at risk from any deterioration in the economic environment which may result from a currently known, or that are currently deemed number of uncertainties, including most significantly the following immaterial, may individually or cumulatively also factors: have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and or prospects.
i Interest rate rises, including as a result of slowing of monetary stimulus, could impact on consumer debt affordability and corporate profitability The possibility of a slowing of monetary stimulus by one or more governments has increased the uncertainty of the near term economic performance across our major markets as it may lead to significant movements in market rates.
Higher interest rates could adversely Business conditions and the general economy impact the credit quality of the Groups customers and counterparties, which, coupled with a decline in collateral values, could lead to a Weak or deteriorating economic conditions or political instability in reduction in recoverability and value of the Groups assets resulting in a the Groups main countries of operation could adversely affect the requirement to increase the Groups level of impairment allowance.
Any Groups trading performance increase in impairment resulting from, for example, higher charge-offs to recovery in the retail book and write-offs could have a material The Group offers a broad range of services to retail and institutional adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition customers, including governments, and it has significant activities in a and prospects.
Consequently, the operations, financial condition and prospects of the Group, its individual business units and ii Decline in residential prices in the UK, Western Europe and or specific countries of operation could be materially adversely South Africa impacted by weak or deteriorating economic conditions or political With UK home loans representing the most significant portion of the instability in one or a number of countries in any of the Groups main Groups total loans and advances to the retail sector, Barclays has a business areas being the UK, the US, the Eurozone and South Africa large exposure to adverse developments in the UK property sector.
or any other globally significant economy through, for example: i Despite a downward correction of 20% in 2009, UK house prices deteriorating business, consumer or investor confidence leading to primarily in London continue to be far higher than the longer term reduced levels of client activity and consequently a decline in revenues average and house prices have continued to rise at a faster rate than and or higher costs: ii mark-to-market losses in trading portfolios income.
Reduced affordability as a result of, for example, higher interest resulting from changes in credit ratings, share prices and solvency of rates or increased unemployment could lead to higher impairment in counterparties: and iii higher levels of impairment and default rates.
the near term, in particular in the UK interest only portfolio.
The global economy continues to face an environment characterised by The Spanish and Portuguese economies, in particular their housing and low growth.
However, governments and central banks in advanced property sectors, remain under significant stress with falling property economies have maintained highly accommodative policies that have prices having led to higher LTV ratios and contributing to higher helped to support demand at a time of very pronounced fiscal impairment charges.
If these trends continue or worsen and or if these tightening and balance sheet repair.
During the next few years, a developments occur in other European countries such as Italy: the combination of forecasts of and actual recovery in private sector Group may incur significant impairment charges in the future, which demand and of a reduced pace of fiscal austerity in Europe and the may materially adversely affect the Groups results of operations, United States is likely to result in a return by central banks towards financial condition and prospects.
While the pace of decreasing monetary support by central banks is expected to be calibrated to the The economy in South Africa remains challenging and the risk remains anticipated recovery in demand, such actions could have a further that any deterioration in the economic environment could adversely adverse impact on volatility in the financial markets and on the affect the Groups performance in home loans.
performance of significant parts of the Groups business, which could, in each case, have an adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
For further information see pages 158 to 176 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 133 Risk review Risk factors continued iii Political instability or economic uncertainty in markets in which Specific sectors and geographies Barclays operates The Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and Political instability in less developed regions in which Barclays operates recovery of loans and advances due from borrowers and counterparties could weaken growth prospects that could lead to an adverse impact in a specific portfolio or geography or from a large individual name.
on customers ability to service debt.
For example, economic and Any deterioration in credit quality could lead to lower recoverability and political uncertainty in South Africa continues to dampen down higher impairment in a specific sector, geography or in respect of investment into the country with lending growth rates persisting, specific large counterparties.
Furthermore, debt serviceability may be adversely impacted by a further interest rate rise early in 2014 as a i Exit Quadrant assets result of a downgrade to South Africas credit rating.
The Investment Bank holds a large portfolio of Exit Quadrant assets, including commercial real estate and leveraged finance loans, which The referenda on Scottish independence in September 2014 and on UK i remain illiquid: ii are valued based upon assumptions, judgements membership of the European Union expected before 2017 may affect and estimates which may change over time: and iii which are subject the Groups risk profile through introducing potentially significant new to further deterioration and write downs.
uncertainties and instability in financial markets, both ahead of the respective dates for these referenda and, depending on the outcomes, after the event.
For further information see page 181 There remain concerns in the market about credit risk including that of sovereign states and the Eurozone crisis.
The large sovereign debts ii Corporate Banking assets held at fair value and or fiscal deficits of a number of Eurozone countries and the Corporate Banking holds a portfolio of longer term loans to the sustainability of austerity programmes that such countries have Education, Social Housing and Local Authority ESHLA sectors which introduced have raised concerns among market participants regarding are marked on a fair value basis.
The value of these loans is therefore the financial condition of these countries as well as financial subject to market movements and may give rise to losses.
institutions, insurers and other corporates that are located in, or have direct or indirect exposures to, such Eurozone countries.
iii Large single name losses In addition, the Group has large individual exposures to single name For further information see pages 182 to 189 counterparties.
The default of obligations by such counterparties could have a significant impact on the carrying value of these assets.
In addition, where such counterparty risk has been mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk may remain high if the collateral held cannot be iv Exit of one or more countries from the Eurozone realised or has to be liquidated at prices which are insufficient to The Group is exposed to an escalation of the Eurozone crisis whereby recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure.
Any such a sovereign defaults and exits the Eurozone, in the following ways: defaults could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of The direct risk arising from the sovereign default of an existing operations, financial condition and prospects.
country in which the Group has significant operations and the adverse impact on the economy of that exiting country and the credit Market risk standing of the Groups clients and counterparties in that country.
The Groups financial position may be adversely affected by changes The subsequent adverse impact on the economy of other Eurozone in both the level and volatility of prices countries and the credit standing of the Groups clients and counterparties in such other Eurozone countries.
Barclays is at risk from its earnings or capital being reduced due to: i changes in the level or volatility of positions in its trading books, Indirect risk arising from credit derivatives that reference Eurozone sovereign debt.
primarily in the Investment Bank, including changes in interest rates, inflation rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity and bond Direct redenomination risk on the balance sheets of the Groups local prices and foreign exchange levels: ii the Group being unable to operations in countries in the Eurozone should the value of the assets hedge its banking book balance sheet at prevailing market levels: and and liabilities be affected differently as a result of one or more iii the risk of the Groups defined benefit pensions obligations countries reverting to a locally denominated currency.
increasing or the value of the assets backing these defined benefit The introduction of capital controls or new currencies by any such pensions obligations decreasing due to changes in either the level or volatility of prices.
These market risks could lead to significantly lower existing countries.
revenues, which could have an adverse impact on the Groups results of Significant effects on existing contractual relations and the fulfilment operations, financial condition and prospects.
of obligations by the Group and or its customers.
Specific examples of scenarios where market risk could lead to If some or all of these conditions arise, persist or worsen, as the case significantly lower revenues and adversely affect the Groups operating may be, they may have a material adverse effect on the Groups results include: operations, financial condition and prospects.
The current absence of a predetermined mechanism for a member state to exit the Euro means i Reduced client activity and decreased market liquidity that it is not possible to predict the outcome of such an event or to The Investment Banks business model is focused on client accurately quantify the impact of such an event on the Groups intermediation.
A significant reduction in client volumes or market operations, financial condition and prospects.
liquidity could result in lower fees and commission income and a longer time period between executing a client trade, closing out a hedge, or exiting a position arising from that trade.
Longer holding periods in times of higher volatility could lead to revenue volatility caused by price changes.
Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
For further information see pages 190 to 198 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information ii Uncertain interest rate environment Additional capital requirements will also arise from other proposals, Interest rate volatility can impact the Groups net interest margin, which including the recommendations of the UK Independent Commission on is the interest rate spread earned between lending and borrowing Banking, the Liikanen Review and section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
The potential for future volatility and margin changes remains, is not currently possible to predict with accuracy the detail of and it is difficult to predict with any accuracy changes in absolute secondary legislation or regulatory rulemaking expected under any of interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
Rate changes, to the these proposals, and therefore the likely consequences to the Group.
extent they are not neutralised by hedging programmes, may have a However, it is likely that these changes in law and regulation would material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial require changes to the legal entity structure of the Group and how its condition and prospects.
businesses are capitalised and funded and or are able to continue to operate and as such could have an adverse impact on the operations, financial condition and prospects of the Group.
Any such increased For further information see pages 190 to 198 capital requirements or changes to what is defined to constitute capital may also constrain the Groups planned activities, lead to forced asset sales and or balance sheet reductions and could increase costs, impact iii Pension fund risk on the Groups earnings and restrict Barclays ability to pay dividends.
Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for defined Moreover, during periods of market dislocation, or when there is benefit pension schemes could contribute to a pension deficit.
Inflation significant competition for the type of funding that the Group needs, is a key risk to the pension fund and Barclays defined benefit pension increasing the Groups capital resources in order to meet targets may net position has been adversely affected, and could be adversely prove more difficult and or costly.
affected again, by any increase in long term inflation assumptions.
A decrease in the discount rate, which is derived from yields of corporate ii Changes in funding availability and costs bonds with AA ratings and consequently includes exposure both to Should the Group fail to manage its liquidity and funding risk risk-free yields and credit spreads, may also impact pension valuations sufficiently, this may result in: an inability to support normal business and may therefore have a material adverse effect on the Groups results activity: and or a failure to meet liquidity regulatory requirements: and of operations, financial condition and prospects.
or changes to credit ratings.
Any material adverse change in market liquidity such as that experienced in 2008, or the availability and cost of customer deposits and or wholesale funding, in each case whether For further information see pages 197 and 198 due to factors specific to Barclays such as due to a downgrade in Barclays credit rating or to the market generally, could adversely impact the Groups ability to maintain the levels of liquidity required to meet regulatory requirements and sustain normal business activity.
In Funding risk addition, there is a risk that the Group could face sudden, unexpected The ability of the Group to achieve its business plans may be and large net cash outflows, for example from customer deposit adversely impacted if it does not effectively manage its capital, withdrawals, or unanticipated levels of loan drawdowns under liquidity and leverage ratios committed facilities, which could result in i forced reductions in Barclays balance sheet: ii Barclays being unable to fulfil its lending Funding risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to achieve its obligations: and iii a failure to meet the Groups liquidity regulatory business plans due to: being unable to maintain appropriate capital requirements.
During periods of market dislocation, the Groups ability ratios Capital risk : being unable to meet its obligations as they fall due to manage liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in Liquidity risk : adverse changes in interest rate curves impacting the availability of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the structural hedges of non-interest bearing assets liabilities or foreign cost of raising wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet reductions exchange rates on capital ratios Structural risk.
and increased costs of raising funding could all adversely impact the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the Group.
i Maintaining capital strength in increasingly challenging environment Should the Group be unable to maintain or achieve appropriate capital iii Changes in foreign exchange and interest rates ratios this could lead to: an inability to support business activity: a The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets denominated failure to meet regulatory requirements: changes to credit ratings, in foreign currencies: changes in foreign exchange rates result in which could also result in increased costs or reduced capacity to raise changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency funding: and or the need to take additional measures to strengthen the denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, Groups capital or leverage position.
Basel III and CRD IV have increased the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency the amount and quality of capital that Barclays is required to hold.
The Group also has exposure to non-traded interest rate IV requirements adopted in the United Kingdom may change, whether risk, arising from the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded as a result of further changes to CRD IV agreed by EU legislators, banking products and services.
This includes current accounts and binding regulatory technical standards being developed by the equity balances which do not have a defined maturity date and an European Banking Authority or changes to the way in which the PRA interest rate that does not change in line with base rate changes.
interprets and applies these requirements to UK banks including as Failure to appropriately manage the Groups balance sheet to take regards individual model approvals granted under CRD II and III.
account of these risks could result in: i in the case of foreign Such changes, either individually and or in aggregate, may lead to exchange risk, an adverse impact on regulatory capital ratios: and ii in further unexpected enhanced requirements in relation to the Groups the case of non-traded interest rate risk, an adverse impact on income.
Structural risk is difficult to predict with any accuracy and may have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 135 Risk review Risk factors continued iv Critical accounting estimates and judgments Operational risk The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS The operational risk profile of the Group may change as a result of requires the use of estimates.
It also requires management to exercise human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, judgement in applying relevant accounting policies.
The key areas and external events involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial Barclays is exposed to many types of operational risk, including statements, include credit impairment charges for amortised cost fraudulent and other criminal activities both internal and external, assets, impairment and valuation of available-for-sale investments, the risk of breakdowns in processes, controls or procedures or their calculation of income and deferred tax, fair value of financial inadequacy relative to the size and scope of Barclays business and instruments, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of systems failure or non-availability.
Barclays is also subject to the risk of provisions and accounting for pensions and post-retirement benefits.
disruption of its business arising from events that are wholly or partially There is a risk that if the judgement exercised or the estimates or beyond its control for example natural disasters, acts of terrorism, assumptions used subsequently turn out to be incorrect then this could epidemics and transport or utility failures which may give rise to losses result in significant loss to the Group, beyond that anticipated or or reductions in service to customers and or economic loss to Barclays.
provided for, which could have an adverse impact on the Groups The operational risks that the Group is exposed to could change rapidly operations, financial results and condition.
and there is no guarantee that the Groups processes, controls, procedures and systems are sufficient to address, or could adapt In accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and promptly to, such changing risks.
All of these risks are also applicable Contingent Assets, where provisions have already been taken in where Barclays relies on outside suppliers or vendors to provide published financial statements or results announcements for on-going services to it and its customers.
legal or regulatory matters, including in relation payment protection insurance PPI, interest rate hedging products, and litigation relating i Infrastructure and technology resilience to Devonshire Trust, these have been recognised as the best estimate The Groups technological infrastructure is critical to the operation of of the expenditure required to settle the obligation as at the reporting the Groups businesses and delivery of products and services to date.
Such estimates are inherently uncertain and it is possible that the customers and clients.
Any disruption in a customers access to their eventual outcomes may differ materially from current estimates, account information or delays in making payments will have a resulting in future increases to the required provisions as has, for significant impact on the Groups reputation and may also lead to example, been the case in relation to the provisions that the Group has potentially large costs to both rectify the issue and reimburse losses made in relation to PPI redress payments, or actual losses that exceed incurred by customers.
Technological efficiency and automation is also the provisions taken.
important to the control environment and improvement is an area of focus for Barclays for example, via updating of legacy systems, and In addition, provisions have not been taken where no obligation as introducing additional security, access management and segregation of defined in IAS 37 has been established, whether associated with a duty controls.
known or potential future litigation or regulatory matter.
Accordingly, an adverse decision in any such matters could result in significant ii Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees losses to the Group which have not been provided for.
Such losses The Group is largely dependent on highly skilled and qualified would have an adverse impact on the Groups operations, financial individuals.
Therefore, the Groups continued ability to manage and results and condition and prospects.
grow its business, to compete effectively and to respond to an increasingly complex regulatory environment is dependent on Observable market prices are not available for many of the financial attracting new talented and diverse employees and retaining assets and liabilities that the Group holds at fair value and a variety of appropriately qualified employees.
In particular, as a result of the work techniques to estimate the fair value are used.
Should the valuation of repositioning compensation while ensuring Barclays remains such financial assets or liabilities become observable, for example as a competitive and as the global economic recovery continues, there is a result of sales or trading in comparable assets or liabilities by third risk that some employees may decide to leave Barclays.
This may be parties, this could result in a materially different valuation to the current particularly evident amongst those employees due to be impacted by carrying value in the Groups financial statements.
the introduction of role based pay and bonus caps in response to new legislation and employees with skill sets that are currently in The further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS high demand.
could also significantly impact the financial results, condition and prospects of the Group.
For example, the introduction of IFRS 9 Failure by Barclays to prevent the departure of appropriately qualified Financial Instruments is likely to have a material impact on the employees, to retain qualified staff who are dedicated to oversee and measurement and impairment of financial instruments held.
manage current and future regulatory standards and expectations, or to quickly and effectively replace such employees, could negatively v Risks arising from legal, competition and regulatory matters impact the Groups results of operations, financial condition, prospects The Group operates in highly regulated industries, and the Groups and level of employee engagement.
businesses and results may be significantly affected by the laws and regulations applicable to it and by proceedings involving the Group iii Cyber-security The threat to the security of the Groups information held on customers As a global financial services firm, the Group is subject to extensive and from cyber-attacks is pertinent and continues to grow at pace.
comprehensive regulation under the laws of the various jurisdictions in Activists, rogue states and cyber criminals are among those targeting which it does business.
These laws and regulations significantly affect computer systems.
Risks to technology and cyber-security change the way that the Group does business, can restrict the scope of its rapidly and require continued focus and investment.
Given the existing businesses and limit its ability to expand its product offerings increasing sophistication and scope of potential cyber-attack, it is or to pursue acquisitions, or can result in an increase in operating costs possible that future attacks may lead to significant breaches of security.
for the business and or make its products and services more expensive Failure to adequately manage cyber-security risk and continually for clients and customers.
There has also been an increased focus on review and update current processes in response to new threats could regulation and procedures for the protection of customers and clients adversely affect the Groups reputation, operations, financial condition of financial services firms.
This has resulted, moreover, in increased and prospects.
willingness on the part of regulators to investigate past practices, vigorously pursue alleged violations and impose heavy penalties on financial services firms.
136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The Group is exposed to many forms of risk relating to legal, Potential financial and reputational impacts of other legal, competition competition and regulatory proceedings, including that: i business and regulatory matters or other proceedings may not be, or may not have been, conducted in accordance with The Group is engaged in various other legal, competition and applicable laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions around the regulatory matters both in the UK and a number of overseas world and financial and other penalties may result: ii contractual jurisdictions.
It is subject to legal proceedings by and against the Group obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or may be which arise in the ordinary course of business from time to time, enforced in a way adverse to the Group: iii intellectual property may including but not limited to disputes in relation to contracts, not be protected as intended and the Group may use intellectual securities, debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, property which infringes, or is alleged to infringe, the rights of third competition, data protection, money laundering, employment, parties: and iv liability may be incurred to third parties harmed by the environmental and other statutory and common law issues.
The Group conduct of the Groups business.
is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and other proceedings by regulators, Risks arising from material legal, competition and regulatory matters governmental and other public bodies in connection with but not The Group, in common with other global financial services firms, has in limited to consumer protection measures, compliance with legislation recent years faced a risk of increased levels of legal proceedings in and regulation, wholesale trading activity and other areas of banking jurisdictions in which it does business.
This is particularly true in the US and business activities in which the Group is or has been engaged.
where the Group is facing and may in the future face legal proceedings relating to its business activities, including in the form of class actions.
In addition to the specific matters set out above, there may be other legal, competition and regulatory matters currently not known to the The Group also faces existing regulatory and other investigations in Group or in respect of which it is currently not possible to ascertain various jurisdictions as well as the risk of potential future regulatory whether there could be a material adverse effect on the Groups and other investigations or proceedings and or further private actions position.
In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and and or class actions being brought by third parties.
regulatory matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to the Groups results Material legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Group of operations for a particular period, depending on, among other is currently exposed are detailed in Note 30 to the financial statements things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter s and the and include: amount of income otherwise reported for the reporting period.
Non-compliance by the Group with applicable laws, regulations and Lehman Brothers civil action: codes of conduct relevant to its businesses in all jurisdictions in which Civil actions in respect of certain series of preference shares issued in it operates, whether due to inadequate controls or otherwise, could the form of American Depositary Shares: expose the Group, now or in the future, to any of the consequences set out above as well as withdrawal of authorisations to operate particular Mortgage related activity and litigation: businesses.
Devonshire Trust civil action: Non-compliance may also lead to costs relating to investigations and London Interbank Offered Rates LIBOR and other benchmarks civil remediation of affected customers.
The latter may, in some actions: civil actions in respect of foreign exchange trading: and circumstances, exceed the direct costs of regulatory enforcement investigations into LIBOR, ISDAfix and other benchmarks and foreign actions.
In addition, reputational damage may lead to a reduction in exchange rates: franchise value.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission matters relating to the Groups power trading in the western US: There is also a risk that the outcome of any legal, competition or regulatory matters, investigations or proceedings to which the Group is BDC Finance LLC civil action: subject and or a party could whether current or future, specified in Interchange investigations: this risk factor or not may give rise to changes in law or regulation as part of a wider response by relevant law makers and regulators.
An Interest rate hedging products redress: adverse decision in any one matter, either against the Group or another Credit default swap antitrust investigations: financial institution facing similar claims, could lead to further claims against the Group.
Swiss US tax programme: and Investigations into certain agreements, including two advisory Any of these risks, should they materialise, could have an adverse services agreements entered into by BBPLC and Qatar Holding LLC impact on the Groups operations, financial results and condition and in 2008. prospects.
The outcome of each of these legal, competition and regulatory vi Regulatory risk matters and any future matters is difficult to predict.
However, it is Regulatory risks: the financial services industry continues to be the likely that the Group will incur significant expense in connection with focus of significant regulatory change and scrutiny which may some or all of these matters, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and adversely affect the Groups business, financial performance capital one or more of them could expose the Group to any of the following: and risk management strategies substantial monetary damages and or fines: other penalties and injunctive relief: additional civil or private litigation: criminal Regulatory risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully with the prosecution in certain circumstances: the loss of any existing agreed laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial protection from prosecution: regulatory restrictions on the Groups services industry which are currently subject to significant changes.
business: increased regulatory compliance requirements: suspension of Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to operations: public reprimands: loss of significant assets: and or a reputation, increased prudential requirements, changes to Group negative effect on the Groups reputation.
structure and or strategy, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
Noncompliance may also lead to costs relating to investigations and remediation of affected customers.
The latter may exceed the direct costs of regulatory enforcement actions.
In addition, reputational damage may lead to a reduction in franchise value.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 137 Risk review Risk factors continued Regulatory change Structural reform The Group, in common with much of the financial services industry, A number of jurisdictions have enacted or are considering legislation continues to be subject to significant levels of regulatory change and and rule making that could have a significant impact on the structure, increasing scrutiny in many of the countries in which it operates business risk and management of the Group and of the financial including, in particular, the UK and the US and in light of its significant services industry more generally.
Key developments that are relevant to investment banking operations.
This has led to a more intensive Barclays include: approach to supervision and oversight, increased expectations and The UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013, gives UK enhanced requirements, including with regard to: i capital, liquidity authorities the power to implement key recommendations of the and leverage requirements for example arising from Basel III and Independent Commission on Banking, including: i the separation of CRDIV : ii structural reform and recovery and resolution planning: and the UK and EEA retail banking activities of the largest UK banks into a iii market infrastructure reforms such as the clearing of over-thelegally, operationally and economically separate and independent counter derivatives.
As a result, regulatory risk will continue to be a entity so called ring fencing : ii statutory depositor preference in focus of senior management attention and consume significant levels insolvency: iii a reserve power for the PRA to enforce full separation of business resources.
Furthermore, this more intensive approach and of the retail operations of UK banks to which the reforms apply under the enhanced requirements, uncertainty and extent of international certain circumstances: and iv a bail-in stabilisation option as part regulatory coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are of the powers of the UK resolution authority: developed and implemented may adversely affect the Groups business, capital and risk management strategies and or may result in the Group The European Commission proposals of January 2014 for a directive deciding to modify its legal entity structure, capital and funding to implement recommendations of the EU High Level Expert Group structures and business mix or to exit certain business activities Review the Liikanen Review.
The directive would apply to EU altogether or to determine not to expand in areas despite their globally significant financial institutions and envisages, among other otherwise attractive potential.
things: i a ban on engaging in proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities: ii giving supervisors the power and, For further information see Regulatory Developments in the section on in certain instances, the obligation to require the transfer of other Supervision and Regulation.
trading activities deemed to be high risk to separate legal trading entities within a banking group: and iii rules governing the Implementation of Basel III CRD IV and additional PRA supervisory economic, legal, governance and operational links between the expectations separated trading entity and the rest of the banking group: CRD IV introduces significant changes in the prudential regulatory On 18 February 2014, the US Board of Governors of the Federal regime applicable to banks including: increased minimum capital Reserve System FRB issued final rules implementing various ratios: changes to the definition of capital and the calculation of risk enhanced prudential standards under Section 165 of the DFA weighted assets: and the introduction of new measures relating to applicable to certain foreign banking organisations and their US leverage, liquidity and funding.
CRD IV entered into force in the UK and operations, including Barclays.
Because its total US and non-US other EU member states on 1 January 2014.
CRD IV permits a assets exceed $50bn, Barclays would be subject to the most stringent transitional period for certain of the enhanced capital requirements and requirements of the final rules, including the requirement to create a certain other measures, such as the CRD IV leverage ratio, which are US intermediate holding company IHC structure to hold its US not expected to be finally implemented until 2018.
Notwithstanding banking and non-banking subsidiaries, including Barclays Capital Inc. this, the PRAs supervisory expectation is for Barclays to meet certain the Groups US broker-dealer subsidiary.
The IHC would generally be capital and leverage ratio targets within certain prescribed timeframes.
subject to supervision and regulation, including as to regulatory Barclays met the PRAs expectation to have an adjusted fully loaded capital and stress testing, by the FRB as if it were a US bank holding CET 1 ratio of 7% by 31 December 2013 and will be expected to meet a company of comparable size.
In particular, under the final rules, the PRA Leverage Ratio of 3% by 30 June 2014. consolidated IHC would be subject to a number of additional supervisory and prudential requirements, including: i subject to There is a risk that CRD IV requirements adopted in the UK may certain limited exceptions, FRB regulatory capital requirements and change, whether as a result of further changes to global standards, EU leverage limits that are the same as those applicable to US banking legislation, including the CRDIV text and or via binding regulatory organisations of comparable size: ii mandatory company-run and technical standards being developed by the European Banking supervisory stress testing of capital levels and submission of a capital Authority or changes to the way in which the PRA interprets and plan to the FRB: iii supervisory approval of and limitations on capital applies these requirements to UK banks, including as regards individual distributions by the IHC to Barclays Bank PLC: iv additional models approvals granted under CRD II and III.
For example, further substantive liquidity requirements including monthly internal guidelines published by the Basel Committee in January 2014 regarding liquidity stress tests and maintenance of specified liquidity buffers the calculation of the leverage ratio are expected to be incorporated and other liquidity risk management requirements: and v overall into EU and UK law during 2014. risk management requirements, including a US risk committee and a US chief risk officer.
The effective date of the final rule is 1 June 2014, In addition the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England has although compliance with most of its requirements will be phased-in legal powers, where this is required to protect financial stability, to between 2015 and 2018.
Barclays will not be required to form its IHC make recommendations about the application of prudential until 1 July 2016.
The IHC will be subject to the US generally requirements, and has, or may be given, other powers including powers applicable minimum leverage capital requirement which is different to direct the PRA and FCA to adjust capital requirements through than the Basel III international leverage ratio, including to the extent sectoral capital requirements SCR.
Directions would apply to all UK that the generally applicable US leverage ratio does not include banks and building societies, rather than to the Group specifically.
off-balance sheet exposures starting 1 January 2018.
In light of the recent release of the final rules, Barclays continues to evaluate their Such changes, either individually or in aggregate, may lead to implications for Barclays.
Nevertheless, the Group currently believes unexpected enhanced requirements in relation to the Groups capital, that, in the aggregate, the final rules and, in particular, the leverage leverage, liquidity and funding ratios or alter the way such ratios are requirements in the final rules that will ultimately become applicable calculated.
This may result in a need for further management actions to the IHC are likely to increase the operational costs and capital to meet the changed requirements, such as: increasing capital, requirements and or require changes to the business mix of Barclays reducing leverage and risk weighted assets, modifying legal entity US operations, which ultimately may have an adverse effect on the structure including with regard to issuance and deployment of capital Groups overall result of operations: and funding for the Group and changing Barclays business mix or exiting other businesses and or undertaking other actions to strengthen Barclays position.
138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In the US, in December 2013, the relevant US regulatory agencies, structures including demanding that the Group be restructured into finalised the rules implementing the requirements of Section 619 of units which are more readily resolvable : limit or cease specific existing the Dodd-Frank Act the so-called Volcker Rule.
The Volcker Rule, or proposed activities: hold a specified minimum amount of liabilities once fully effective, will prohibit banking entities, including Barclays subject to write down or conversion powers under the so-called PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and their various subsidiaries and affiliates bail-in tool.
The proposal is to be implemented in all European from undertaking certain proprietary trading activities and will limit Member States by 1 January 2015, with the exception of the bail-in the sponsorship of, and investment in, private equity funds and powers which must be implemented by 1 January 2016. hedge funds, in each case broadly defined, by such entities.
These restrictions are subject to certain important exceptions and In the UK, recovery and resolution planning is now considered part of exemptions, as well as exemptions applicable to transactions and continuing supervision.
Removal of barriers to resolution will be investments occurring solely outside of the United States.
The rules considered as part of the PRAs supervisory strategy for each firm, and will also require the Group to develop an extensive compliance and the PRA can require firms to make significant changes in order to monitoring programme both inside and outside of the United enhance resolvability.
The UK will also need to consider how it will States, subject to various executive officer attestation requirements, transpose the RRD into UK law.
addressing proprietary trading and covered fund activities, and Barclays therefore expects compliance costs to increase.
The final Whilst Barclays believes that it is making good progress in reducing rules are highly complex and differ in certain significant respects impediments to resolution, should the relevant authorities ultimately from the rules as proposed in October 2011.
As such, their full impact decide that the Group or any significant subsidiary is not resolvable, the will not be known with certainty until market practices and structures impact of such structural changes whether in connection with RRP or develop under them.
Subject entities are generally required to be in other structural reform initiatives could impact capital, liquidity and compliance by July 2015 with certain provisions subject to possible leverage ratios, as well as the overall profitability of the Group, for extensions : and example via duplicated infrastructure costs, lost cross-rate revenues and additional funding costs.
The European Commissions proposal for a directive providing for a new framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions Regulatory action in the event of a bank failure and investment firms the Recovery and Resolution Directive or RRD, The UK Banking Act 2009, as amended the Banking Act provides for a which is expected to be finalised in 2014. regime to allow the Bank of England or, in certain circumstances, HM Treasury to resolve failing banks in the UK.
Under the Banking Act, These laws and regulations and the way in which they are interpreted these authorities are given powers to make share transfer orders and and implemented by regulators may have a number of significant property transfer orders.
Following the Financial Services Banking consequences, including changes to the legal entity structure of the Reform Act 2013 the authorities also have at their disposal a statutory Group, changes to how and where capital and funding is raised and bail-in power.
This bail-in power is available to the UK resolution deployed within the Group, increased requirements for loss-absorbing authority to enable it to recapitalize a failed institution by allocating capacity within the Group and or at the level of certain legal entities or losses to its shareholders and unsecured creditors.
The bail-in power sub-groups within the Group and potential modifications to the enables the UK resolution authority to cancel liabilities or modify the business mix and model including potential exit of certain business terms of contracts for the purposes of reducing or deferring the activities.
These and other regulatory changes and the resulting liabilities of the bank under resolution and the power to convert actions taken to address such regulatory changes, may have an adverse liabilities into another form e. g. shares.
impact on the Groups profitability, operating flexibility, flexibility of deployment of capital and funding, return on equity, ability to pay The draft RRD includes provisions similar to the Banking Act for the dividends and or financial condition.
It is not yet possible to predict the introduction of statutory bail-in powers, including the power to i detail of such legislation or regulatory rulemaking or the ultimate cancel existing shares and or dilute existing shareholders by consequences to the Group which could be material.
converting relevant capital instruments or eligible liabilities into shares of the surviving entity and ii cancel all or a portion of the principal Recovery and resolution planning amount of, or interest on, certain unsecured liabilities including certain There continues to be a strong regulatory focus on resolvability from debt securities of a failing financial institution and or to convert international and UK regulators.
The Group continues to work with all certain debt claims into another security, including ordinary shares of relevant authorities on recovery and resolution plans RRP and the the surviving Group entity, if any.
The Banking Act bail-in power is not detailed practicalities of the resolution process.
This includes the expected to require significant amendments following finalisations of provision of information that would be required in the event of a the RRD, but this cannot be guaranteed.
Accordingly, if the Group were resolution, in order to enhance the Groups resolvability.
The Group to be at or approaching the point of non-viability such as to require made its first formal RRP submissions to the UK and US regulators in regulatory intervention, any exercise of any resolution regime powers mid-2012 and has continued to work with the relevant authorities to by the relevant UK resolution authority may result in shareholders identify and address any impediments to resolvability.
The second US losing all or a part of their shareholdings and or in the rights of resolution plan was submitted in October 2013 and Barclays anticipates shareholders being adversely affected, including by the dilution of their annual submissions hereafter.
percentage ownership of the Barclays share capital, and may result in creditors, including debt holders, losing all or a part of their investment The EU has agreed the text of the RRD and expects to finalise the in the Groups securities that could be subject to such powers.
The RRD establishes a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
The aim of In addition to bail-in power, the powers currently proposed to be this regime is to provide authorities with the tools to intervene granted to the relevant UK resolution authority under the Banking Act sufficiently early and quickly in a failing institution so as to ensure the and draft RRD include the power to: i direct the sale of the relevant continuity of the institution or firms critical financial and economic financial institution or the whole or part of its business on commercial functions while minimising the impact of its failure on the financial terms without requiring the consent of the shareholders or complying system.
The regime is also intended to ensure that shareholders bear with the procedural requirements that would otherwise apply: ii losses first and that certain creditors bear losses after shareholders, transfer all or part of the business of the relevant financial institution to provided that no creditor should incur greater losses than it would have a bridge bank a publicly controlled entity : and iii transfer the incurred if the institution had been wound up under normal insolvency impaired or problem assets of the relevant financial institution to an proceedings.
The Directive provides resolution authorities with powers asset management vehicle to allow them to be managed over time.
to require credit institutions to make significant changes in order to enhance recovery or resolvability.
These include, amongst others, the powers to require the group to: make changes to its legal or operational barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 139 Risk review Risk factors continued If these powers were to be exercised or there is an increased risk of In addition, any changes to the tax regimes applicable to the Group exercise in respect of the Group or any entity within the Group could could have a material adverse effect on it.
For example, depending on result in a material adverse effect on the rights or interests of the terms of the final form of legislation as implemented, the shareholders and creditors including holders of debt securities and or introduction of the proposed EU Financial Transaction Tax could could have a material adverse effect on the market price of Barclays adversely affect certain of the Groups businesses and have a material shares and other securities.
adverse effect on the Groups operations, financial conditions and prospects.
Market infrastructure reforms The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR introduces viii Implementation of the Transform programme and requirements to improve transparency and reduce the risks associated other strategic plans with the derivatives market.
Certain of these requirements came into The Transform programme represents the current strategy of the force in 2013 and others will enter into force in 2014.
EMIR requires Group, both for improved financial performance and cultural change, entities that enter into any form of derivative contract to: report every and the Group expects to incur significant restructuring charges and derivative contract entered into to a trade repository: implement new costs associated with implementing this strategic plan.
The successful risk management standards for all bi-lateral over-the-counter derivative development and implementation of such strategic plans requires trades that are not cleared by a central counterparty: and clear, through difficult, subjective and complex judgements, including forecasts of a central counterparty, over-the-counter derivatives that are subject to economic conditions in various parts of the world, and is subject to a mandatory clearing obligation.
CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by significant execution risks.
For example, the Groups ability to applying higher capital requirements for bilateral, over-the-counter implement successfully the Transform programme and other such derivative trades.
Lower capital requirements for cleared trades are only strategic plans may be adversely impacted by a significant global available if the central counterparty is recognised as a qualifying macroeconomic downturn, legacy issues, limitations in the Groups central counterparty, which has been authorised or recognised under management or operational capacity or significant and unexpected regulatory change in countries in which the Group operates.
Moreover, EMIR in accordance with related binding technical standards.
Further significant market infrastructure reforms will be introduced by progress on the various components of Transform including reduction in costs relative to net operating income is unlikely to be uniform or amendments to the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive that are being finalised by the EU legislative institutions and are expected to linear, and certain targets may be achieved slower than others, if at all.
Failure to implement successfully the Transform programme could have a material adverse effect on the Groups ability to achieve the In the US, the Dodd-Frank Act also mandates that many types of derivatives now traded in the over-thecounter markets must be stated targets, estimates including with respect to future capital and leverage ratios and dividends payout ratios and other expected traded on an exchange or swap execution facility and must be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house.
In addition, participants in benefits of the Transform programme and there is also a risk that the costs associated with implementing the scheme may be higher than these markets are now made subject to CFTC and SEC regulation and oversight.
Entities required to register with the CFTC as swap dealers the financial benefits expected to be achieved through the programme.
In addition, the goals of embedding a culture and set of values across or major swap participants and or with the SEC as security-based swap dealers or major securitybased swap dealers are or will be the Group and achieving lasting and meaningful change to the Groups culture may not succeed, which could negatively impact the Groups subject to business conduct, capital, margin, record keeping and reporting requirements.
Barclays Bank PLC has registered with the operations, financial condition and prospects.
Conduct risk It is possible that other additional regulations, and the related expenses Conduct risk: detriment is caused to our customers, clients, and requirements, will increase the cost of and restrict participation in counterparties or Barclays and its employees because of the derivative markets, thereby increasing the costs of engaging in inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities hedging or other transactions and reducing liquidity and the use of the derivative markets.
Ineffective management of conduct risk may lead to poor outcomes for our customers, clients and counterparties or damage to market The new regulation of the derivative markets could adversely affect the integrity.
It may also lead to detriment to Barclays and its employees.
business of Barclays Bank PLC and its affiliates in these markets and Such outcomes are inconsistent with Barclays purpose and values and could make it more difficult and expensive to conduct hedging and may negatively impact the Groups results of operations, financial trading activities, which could in turn reduce the demand for swap condition and prospects.
They may lead to negative publicity, loss of dealer and similar services of Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiaries.
revenue, litigation, higher scrutiny and or intervention from regulators, In addition, as a result of these increased costs, the new regulation of regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing or potential client the derivative markets may also result in the Group deciding to reduce business, reduced workforce morale, and difficulties in recruiting and its activity in these markets.
This could reduce directly or indirectly the attractiveness of the Group to stakeholders, including customers.
vii Losses due to additional tax charges The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it There are a number of areas where Barclays conduct has not met the operates, including tax laws adopted at the EU level, and is impacted by expectations of regulators and other stakeholders and where the Group a number of double taxation agreements between countries.
has sustained financial and reputational damage in 2013, and where the consequences are likely to endure into 2014 and beyond.
These There is risk that the Group could suffer losses due to additional tax include participation in London interbank offered rates LIBOR and charges, other financial costs or reputational damage due to: failure to interest rate hedging products, and Payment Protection Insurance comply with, or correctly assess the application of, relevant tax law: PPI.
Provisions totalling 650m have been raised in respect of interest failure to deal with tax authorities in a timely, transparent and effective rate hedging products in 2013, bringing cumulative provisions to manner including in relation to historical transactions which might 1.5bn.
Provisions of 1.35bn have been raised against PPI in 2013, have been perceived as aggressive in tax terms : incorrect calculation bringing cumulative provisions to 3.95bn.
To the extent that future of tax estimates for reported and forecast tax numbers: or provision of experience is not in line with managements current estimates, incorrect tax advice.
Such charges, or conducting any challenge to a additional provisions may be required and further reputational damage relevant tax authority, could lead to adverse publicity, reputational may be incurred.
damage and potentially to costs materially exceeding current provisions, in each case to an extent which could have an adverse effect on the Groups operations, financial conditions and prospects.
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Furthermore, the Group is from time to time subject to regulatory Reputation risk investigations which carry the risk of a finding that Barclays has been Reputation risk: Damage to Barclays brand arising from any involved in some form of wrongdoing.
It is not possible to foresee the association, action or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders to outcome or impact of such findings other than fines or other forms of be inappropriate or unethical regulatory censure would be possible.
There is a risk that there may be other conduct issues, including in business already written, of which Reputation risk is the risk of damage to the Barclays brand arising from Barclays is not presently aware.
any association, action or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders to be inappropriate or unethical and not in keeping with the banks Further details on PPI and interest rate hedging products, including a stated purpose and values for example, the industry wide investigation description of management judgements and estimates and sensitivity into the setting of LIBOR and other benchmarks and the mis-selling of analysis on those estimates where available are provided in Note 28 PPI to customers.
Reputation risk may also arise from past, present or Provisions to the financial statements.
Further details on current potential failures in corporate governance or management for regulatory investigations are provided in Note 30 Legal, competition example, if Barclays were to provide funding or services to clients and regulatory matters.
without fully implementing anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption or similar precautions.
In addition, reputation risk may arise Anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, sanctions and from the actual or perceived manner in which Barclays conducts its other compliance risks business activities or in which business activities are conducted in the A major focus of government policy relating to financial institutions in banking and financial industry generally.
recent years including, in particular, the UK and the US has been combating money laundering, bribery and terrorist financing and Failure to appropriately manage reputation risk may reduce directly or enforcing compliance with economic sanctions.
In particular, indirectly the attractiveness of the Group to stakeholders, including regulations applicable to the US operations of Barclays Bank and its customers and clients, and may lead to negative publicity, loss of subsidiaries impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, revenue, litigation, higher scrutiny and or intervention from regulators, procedures and internal controls to detect, prevent and report money regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing or potential client laundering and terrorist financing.
In addition, such regulations in the business, reduced workforce morale, and difficulties in recruiting and US require Barclays Bank and its subsidiaries to ensure compliance with retaining talent.
Sustained damage arising from conduct and US economic sanctions against designated foreign countries, reputation risks could have a materially negative impact on the Groups organisations, entities and nationals among others.
ability to operate fully and the value of the Groups franchise, which in turn could negatively affect the Groups operations, financial condition The risk of non-compliance for large global banking groups, such and prospects.
as Barclays, is high given the nature, scale and complexity of the organisation and the challenges inherent in implementing robust controls.
The Group also operates in some newer markets, such as Africa, Asia and the Middle East, where the risks of non-compliance are higher than in more established markets.
Failure by Barclays to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering, bribery and terrorist financing or to ensure economic sanction compliance could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the organisation, including exposure to fines, criminal and civil penalties and other damages, as well as adverse impacts on the Groups ability to do business in certain jurisdictions.
Failure to comply fully with the Consumer Credit Act CCA3 As an example of non-compliance leading to costs of remediation, UK RBB has identified certain issues with the information contained in historic statements and arrears notices relating to consumer loan accounts and has therefore implemented a plan to return interest incorrectly charged to customers.
Barclays is also undertaking a review of all its businesses where similar issues could arise, including Business Banking, Barclaycard, Wealth and Investment Management and Corporate Bank, to assess any similar or related issues.
There is currently no certainty as to the outcome of this review.
The findings of such review could have an adverse impact on the Groups operations, financial results and prospects.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 141
