Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management The management of risk by our employees has been a key ingredient in the groups success in 2013.
Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer 2013 in review Throughout 2013 all entities in the Beazley group have operated within risk appetite and there have been sufficient resources, both financial and personnel, to deliver the groups business plan.
The risk management framework, which was revised in 2010 in preparation for the implementation of Solvency II, continues to operate effectively and has provided timely and trusted risk information to the groups boards.
There have been no major changes to the risk management framework in 2013, but it has evolved as required in order to keep pace with changes in the groups risk profile and the environment within which the group operates.
In particular, the theme this year has been to focus on further improving board and committee risk reporting.
The groups boards and members of the executive committee met in May 2013 and, amongst other topics, discussed emerging and strategic risks.
These were summarised into five categories, namely: socio-political risks, market conditions, distribution, talent and regulation.
Developments in these areas, along with activity undertaken by Beazley, have been reported in the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report throughout the year.
The quarterly ORSA has been a feature at Beazley boards since 2010 and has become a valuable tool for the directors to understand current and prospective risks and capital requirements, and has helped the boards steer the strategic direction of the group.
Another report that has developed into a valuable risk management tool is the risk management report to the remuneration committee.
In this report, the design of the remuneration structure is reviewed from a risk perspective to test that it does not inadvertently reward inappropriate behaviour.
The remuneration related calculations are also reviewed to confirm they are in line with the remuneration policy in light of the risk taken and results produced.
During 2013, the board performed a review of Beazleys product led operational structure from a risk perspective and has confirmed that it remains appropriate.
The board also reviewed the oversight of Beazleys global offices in the context of a product led, rather than a geographical, operational structure.
Although some enhancements were introduced subsequent to the review, the board has confirmed that this governance framework is operating in line with expectations.
Whilst the risk and capital teams were brought together in 2010 to better align risk assessment and risk quantification to drive improvements in decision making, Beazleys internal model has been used extensively by the business since it was introduced in 2004.
In 2013, the internal model has been used to optimise further the reinsurance structure and to assess the appropriateness of natural catastrophe model changes and how the risk budget should be adjusted.
Beazleys internal model continues to be tested by an independent and external validator and the results of that work have been reported to the relevant boards within the validation report.
Risk training continues to be provided to the business with a tiered educational programme.
In 2013, the second e-learning module, which is a scenario based approach to considering risk issues, was completed by all employees.
As in previous years, members of the risk management department have visited most Beazley offices to meet with members of staff.
A theme from these office visits is that there is a consistent Beazley culture across the organisation within which the careful consideration of risk and reward is an important part.
These risk behaviours have been a substantial ingredient in the groups success in 2013.
Risk management philosophy Beazleys risk management philosophy is to balance the risks the business takes on, with the associated cost of controlling these risks, whilst also operating within the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In addition, our risk management processes are designed to periodically monitor our risk profile against risk appetite and to exploit opportunities as they arise.
com Beazley 47 Annual report 2013 Risk management continued Risk management strategy The Beazley plc board has delegated the executive oversight of the risk management department to the executive committee, which in turn has delegated immediate oversight to the risk and regulatory committee.
The Beazley plc board has also delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee and each subsidiary board has established a board risk committee.
Clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are in place for the management of risks and controls, and all employees are aware of the role they play in all aspects of the risk management process, from identifying sources of risk to their part in the control environment.
The impact of each risk is recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood of that risk manifesting in the next 12 months.
A risk owner has been assigned responsibility for each risk, and it is the responsibility of that individual to periodically assess the impact of the risk and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation procedures are in place.
External factors facing the business and the internal controls in place are continually reassessed and changes are made when necessary.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the risk appetite for each risk and this is documented in the risk framework document.
The residual financial impact is managed in a number of ways, including: mitigating the impact of the risk through the application of controls: transferring or sharing risk through outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
In addition, the following risk management principles have been adopted: risk management is a part of the wider governance environment: techniques employed are fit for purpose and proportionate to the business: it is a core capability for all employees: risk management is embedded in day-to-day activities: there is a culture of risk awareness, in which risks are identified, assessed and managed: risk management processes are robust and supported by verifiable management information: and risk management information and reporting is timely, clear, accurate and appropriately escalated.
Risk management framework Beazley has adopted the three lines of defence framework: namely business risk management, the risk management function and the internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are three defined risk and control roles: risk owner, control owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a senior member of staff.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of emerging risk.
Business Risk Management Risk Management Internal Audit Risk Ownership Risk Oversight Risk Assurance Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board Monitors risk Reports to committees and board Records status Remediates when required 48 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risk management framework comprises a number of risk management components, which when added together describe how risk is managed on a day to day basis.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe 57 risk events grouped into eight risk categories: insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
The following diagram illustrates the components of the risk management framework.
Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Risk incidents Consolidated assurance Committees reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards A suite of risk management reports are provided to the boards and committees to assist the senior and executive management to discharge its decision making responsibilities.
The internal audit function uses the risk management framework and the audit universe to develop its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other factors, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates, with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
com Beazley 49 Annual report 2013 Risk management continued The risks to financial performance The board monitors and manages risks grouped into eight Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent and conservative categories which cover the universe of risk that could affect reserving philosophy.
However, there is a risk that the Beazley and considers the following two to be the most reserves put aside for expected future losses turn out to be significant.
This could be due to any of the three drivers of risk described above.
The group uses a range of techniques Insurance risk to mitigate this risk including a detailed reserving process Given the nature of Beazleys business, the key risks that which compares, claim by claim, estimates established by impact financial performance arise from insurance activities.
the claim team with a top down statistical view developed by The main insurance risks can be summarised in the following the actuarial team.
A suite of metrics is also used to ensure categories: consistency each year.
Market cycle risk: The risk of systematic mispricing of the Single risk losses: Given the size of policy limits offered medium tailed specialty lines business which could arise on each risk, it is unlikely that the poor performance of one due to a change in the US tort environment, changes to policy will have a material impact on the groups financial the supply and demand of capital, and companies using performance.
incomplete data to make decisions.
This risk would affect multiple classes within the specialty lines division across Strategic risk a number of underwriting years.
The group uses a range Alongside these insurance risks, the success of the group of techniques to mitigate this risk including sophisticated depends on the execution of an appropriate strategy.
The main pricing tools, analysis of macro trends, analysis of claim strategic risks can be summarised as follows: frequency and the expertise of our experienced underwriters Shareholder expectation: There is a risk that Beazley does and claims managers.
not meet its shareholders expectations.
This is mainly Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of one large event caused mitigated through regular and transparent communication.
by nature affecting a number of policies and therefore giving Strategic decisions: The groups performance would be risk to multiple losses.
Given Beazleys risk profile, this could affected in the event of making strategic decisions that be a hurricane, major windstorm or earthquake.
This risk do not add value.
The group mitigates this risk through the is monitored using exposure management techniques to combination of recommendations and challenge from ensure that the risk and reward are appropriate and that non-executive directors, debate at the executive committee the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
and input from the strategy and performance group a group Non natural catastrophe risk: This risk is similar to natural of approximately thirty senior individuals from across catastrophe risk except that multiple losses arise from different disciplines at Beazley.
one event caused by mankind.
Given Beazleys risk profile, Environment: There is a risk that the chosen strategy examples include an act of terrorism, an act of war or cannot be executed because of the current environmental a political event.
This risk is monitored using exposure conditions within which Beazley operates, thereby delaying management techniques to ensure that the risk and the timing of the strategy.
reward are appropriate and that the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Communication: Having the right strategy and environment Other risks is of little value if it is not communicated internally so that The remaining six risk categories monitored by the board are: the whole group is heading in the same direction or if key Market risk: This is the risk that interest rates, exchange external stakeholders are not aware of Beazleys progress rates and default rates move in an adverse direction.
risk is monitored by the investment committee.
Senior management performance: There is a risk that Operational risk: This risk is the failure of people, processes senior management is overstretched or does not perform, and systems or the impact of an external event on Beazleys which would have a detrimental impact on the groups operations and is monitored by the operations committee.
The performance of the senior management Credit risk: Beazley has credit risk to its reinsurers, brokers team is monitored by the CEO and talent management and coverholders of which the reinsurance asset is the team and overseen by the nominations committee.
The underwriting committee monitors this risk.
Reputation: Although reputational risk is a consequential Regulatory and legal risk: This is the risk that Beazley does risk, ie it emerges upon the occurrence of another risk not operate in line with the relevant regulatory framework in manifesting, it has the potential to have a significant the territories where it operates.
Of the eight risk categories, impact on an organisation.
Beazley expects its staff to act the board has the lowest tolerance for this risk.
honourably one of seven ingredients of Being Beazley Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the group does not have by doing the right thing.
sufficient liquid funds following a catastrophic event.
The Flight risk: There is a risk that Beazley is unable to deliver investment committee monitors this risk which, given its strategy due to the loss of key personnel.
Beazley has the nature of the asset portfolio, is currently small.
controls in place to identify and monitor this risk through Group risk: The structure of the Beazley group is not succession planning.
complex and so the main group risk is that one group entity Crisis management: This is the risk caused by the operates to the detriment of another group entity or entities.
destabilising effect of the group having to deal with a crisis Although this risk is currently small, the Beazley plc board and is mitigated by having a detailed crisis management monitors this risk through the reports it receives from plan.
Corporate transaction: There is a risk that Beazley undertakes a corporate transaction which does not return the expected value to shareholders.
This risk is mitigated through the due diligence performed, the financial structure of the transaction and the implementation activity.
Within the environmental risk event, the board monitors five categories of emerging and strategic risk on a quarterly basis, namely: socio-political risk, distribution, market conditions, talent and regulation.
