Report of the Directors INTERNAL CONTROLS & RISK MANAGEMENT REVIEW The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board carries out an annual review of internal controls of itself and primary service providers, which could have an impact on the Company.
ISAE 3402 or equivalent reports have been obtained from the relevant service providers on a regular basis to verify these reviews.
The internal controls are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the foreseeable risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Company has put in place arrangements with AllBlue and BlueCrest as appropriate for the Company to receive weekly estimated NAVs and estimated and final monthly NAVs in relation to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged electronically as soon as they are released to AllBlue investors, together with certain factsheets produced on each fund and other administrative information and reports.
The purpose of these arrangements is to ensure that the Directors have sufficient timely information to enable them to monitor the Companys investments in AllBlue.
In addition, the appointment of Andrew Dodd to the Board, together with his alternate director, allows the Board immediate direct access to senior representatives of the BlueCrest group to discuss issues and receive information on matters which may impact Shareholders.
The Board on a semi-annual basis conducts a full review of the Companys risk management systems, including consideration of a risk matrix which covers various areas of risk including corporate strategy, accuracy of published information, compliance with laws and regulations, relationships with service providers and investment and business activities.
The Board considers that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to identify, mitigate and manage the primary risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Company is a self-managed investment company with no separate investment manager accordingly no fees are payable to an investment manager.
BlueCrest is the investment manager 45 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
