Report of the Directors of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by JTC.
The Board considers that the systems and procedures employed by the Administrator and AllBlue provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls is in place.
The Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisers is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Board monitors their on-going performance and contractual arrangements.
The Board has also specified which matters are reserved for a decision by the Board and which matters may be delegated to its agents and advisers.
Specific matters reserved exclusively for the decision of the Board include all matters concerning the acquisition and realisation of shares in underlying investments, the authorisation of conversions between share classes, the variation of terms on which an overdraft facility is used to finance operating costs and the invocation of any premium or discount mechanisms.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board reviews risks each quarter and monitors the existing risk control activity designed to mitigate these risks.
The principal risks associated with the Company are: Operational risk.
The Board is ultimately responsible for all operational facets of performance including cash management, asset management, regulatory and listing obligations.
The Company has no employees and so enters into a series of contracts legal agreements with a series of service providers to ensure both operational performance and the regulatory obligations are met.
The Company uses well established, reputable and experienced service providers and their continued appointment is assessed at least annually.
The Board is responsible for the investing policy but, due to the nature of the Company, the Board has little discretion in such management.
The success of the Company depends on the diligence and skill of the Investment Manager of the Companys primary investment, AllBlue.
There is a risk that any underperformance of funds in which the Companys capital is invested would lead to a reduction of the net asset value or of the share price rating.
The Board formally monitors the investment performance each quarter, 46 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors periodically visits the Investment Manager and attends regular investment update calls to further supplement their knowledge of the investment process and strategy.
The Company has a discount control mechanism provision which is designed to mitigate this risk.
In the event that the twelve month average discount exceeds five per cent during the Companys Financial Year, an ordinary resolution will be proposed as to whether the Company should continue as an investment company.
The share price is continually monitored and, if appropriate, the Company buy back facility is utilised to help control share price discount levels.
Furthermore, the Board also consider whether any additional control measures need to be taken.
Concentration risk: The Companys principal exposure is to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged and, therefore, the Company is exposed to concentration risk through these two funds.
The Board considers that both funds are highly diversified in their exposures, both to the Underlying Funds and the range of individual positions and exposures of each Underlying Fund.
The Board believes that this mitigates certain aspects of concentration risk.
The Board actively monitors the exposures of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and the Underlying Funds.
Leverage risk: The Company does not undertake structural borrowings but will not maintain exactly 1:1 economic exposure to AllBlue at all times because of factors including, but not limited to, Share issuance and buybacks, general expenses and the exact level of leverage embedded in AllBlue Leveraged from time to time.
The Board regularly monitors the exposure to AllBlue and rebalances when required.
AllBlue does not undertake structural leverage.
AllBlue Leveraged seeks to maintain a position which is approximately 1.5x leveraged to AllBlue.
This leverage may not be maintained or be constant because of changes to the leverage facility made available to AllBlue Leveraged.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company against the performance of AllBlue.
Leverage exists in the Underlying Funds either through formal borrowing facilities or embedded in derivative positions.
Some of the Underlying Funds will be exposed to significant gross leverage.
The Board monitors the performance and strategies of each Underlying Fund and the exposure of AllBlue to each Underlying Fund.
