Our customers also play a part.
We run innovation showcases Payment of suppliers allowing them to discuss applications and solutions with our experts.
This year the average number of days between invoice date and In turn, we get to hear rsthand what they need.
supplier payment was 60 days 2011 12: 61 days.
This year, our research and development focused on: In the UK we have a nancing scheme that offers contracted improving broadband coverage.
We have eld-tested broadband suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This can be particularly ampliers and regenerators to extend the reach of our ADSL2 attractive for SMEs.
We also follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
We have also trialled TV white space radio technology to connect remote communities cost-effectively.
HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS improving broadband speed.
We have been trialling new We measure our performance through two key performance techniques such as vectoring on FTTC lines a solution which indicators: adjusted EBITDA and Customer service improvement.
In improves speed and stability by reducing interference and both of these respects, we make a significant contribution towards bonding.
We have been researching solutions for delivering ultra the performance of our ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
high-speed broadband up to 1Gbps over the final copper drop.
And we have trialled the worlds first 10Gbps XGPON technology Adjusted EBITDA to a customer over a bre network We measure performance based on adjusted EBITDA.
We have built tools to help us speed up EBITDA is dened as the group profit or loss before depreciation, network design, use equipment in the best possible way and amortisation, net finance expense, taxation and specic items.
A minimise the cost of network build.
We are using them to design denition of specic items is set out on page 30.
EBITDA is a common our FTTP network and support the sale of Ethernet products.
We measure used by investors and analysts to evaluate the operating also used them to speed up the design of the London 2012 venue financial performance of companies, particularly in the networks telecommunications sector.
We consider adjusted EBITDA to be useful improving video delivery.
We have changed the way we deliver TV measures of our operating performance because this approximates content.
This means we avoid having to duplicate TV content the underlying operating cash ow by eliminating depreciation and streams over our network, so we will be able to cut costs and give amortisation.
Adjusted EBITDA is not a direct measure of our liquidity, our customers more channels.
which is shown by our cash ow statement, and needs to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
Suppliers Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to Customer service improvement provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We work Our strategy starts with customer service.
Right First Time is our key with around 17,400 suppliers, spending approximately 9.7bn a year measure and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our with them.
The top 100 account for around 62% of our annual customers.
As well as improving service, keeping our promises means spend.
there is less work to put things right and so reduces our costs.
The number of suppliers we use is broadly the same as last year.
However, the mix of suppliers is constantly evolving as we look to OUR RISKS benefit from new and improved products and services.
Like all businesses, we are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external Our approach to procurement factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are akin We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their to those felt by similar companies in terms of scale and operation.
As part of our cost transformation programme we have concentrated on generating the best value from Principal risks and uncertainties our largest suppliers.
A category approach for the majority of other This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties affecting us, spend, using competition and supplier negotiations, has achieved but it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to impact our cost savings.
business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity or capital resources.
We also have a programme looking at our smaller suppliers.
This As in the prior year, the uncertainties in the global economy and seeks to make sure we get the most from them and that we are not credit markets continue to present challenges, both to our business taking on suppliers we do not need.
These challenges drive a number of the risks that we We have a team of around 300 procurement people in 27 face and we focus our efforts on predicting and mitigating them.
The countries working with suppliers on this strategy.
principal risks we described last year have evolved, and so has our response to them.
Supplier selection Our Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with but cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are and who is acting on our behalf.
So we choose suppliers using an identied and addressed.
There may be risks which are unknown or established set of principles that makes sure both we and the supplier which are presently judged not to be significant but later prove to be act ethically and responsibly.
We check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered In our principal risks section below, we explain what we are doing and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way, by to prevent our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
measuring factors such as energy use, environmental impact and Our principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in labour standards.
conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements for this document, and the cautionary statement Supply chain human rights regarding forward-looking statements.
We want our suppliers employees to experience workplace conditions that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire and follow up with any suppliers identied as high or medium risk.
This year we again met our target to achieve 100% follow-up within three months.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 9 How we manage risk Changes over the last year We need to manage risk so we can meet our objectives, build Concerted efforts to deter cable theft, supported by legislative shareholder value and promote our stakeholders interests.
We have a changes and the well publicised arrest and prosecution of thieves, are group-wide risk management process.
It has four stages: beginning to reduce the number of service interruptions in the Identication network.
Theft of equipment from our premises has also fallen Evaluation signicantly.
However, we are detecting more cyber-attacks aimed at Response stealing data or disrupting our own and our customers websites.
Monitoring We have strengthened our defences against these cyber-attacks Our lines of business and our service unit follow our process for and now routinely cope with attacks that a few years ago would have managing risk as part of our Enterprise Risk Management framework.
caused considerable risk of data loss.
Our segregation and encryption That means identifying and responding to the key risks to their of data has increased.
In further recognition of the importance of business.
They record the risks in a register for their leadership teams people and behaviours in managing this risk, a campaign to raise staff to review.
Audit and risk committees in each line of business, and our and supplier awareness of cyber threats is proceeding in response to service unit, ensure this process is effective.
the increasing sophistication of attacks.
We have also refreshed our The BT Group plc Group Risk Panel supports the BT Group plc data protection governance with the appointment of a Chief Privacy Board and Operating Committee.
Every three months it reviews the officer.
Group Risk Register which summarises those risks of greatest We are upgrading much of our equipment to improve reliability, signicance across our business considers the inclusion of new or increase capacity and reduce energy consumption.
Severe ooding emerging risks, and recommends ways to tackle them.
It also across the UK in the year caused several service outages that oversees the work of the group risk management function.
demanded urgent action and resources to be diverted.
The BT Group plc Operating Committee identies, evaluates, Impact responds to and monitors risks.
significant risks are reported and A breach of our security, or compromise of data and or resilience monitored through the Group Risk Register.
The BT Group plc affecting our operations, or those of our customers, could lead to an Operating Committee assigns a management owner to take charge of extended interruption to network services or even affect national monitoring and managing each risk.
It monitors these risks through infrastructure.
Such failure may lead to a loss of customer confidence, regular detailed reviews as well as six-monthly reviews of the Group termination of contracts, loss of revenue, and reduced cash Risk Register.
generation through penalties and unplanned costs of restoration and The BT Group plc Board has overall responsibility for making sure improvement.
Additional reputational damage and financial loss may we manage risks appropriately.
It regularly reviews either directly, or arise from a legal or contractual failing such as breaching data through the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, how we are doing protection or handling requirements.
Failure or interruption of data across the group, in our lines of business and in our service unit.
transfer could also have a significant adverse effect on our business.
Changes over the last year Risk mitigation Last year we improved the way we manage risk through better Our strategy for resilience is to combine formal business continuity reporting, evaluation and training.
This year we have further planning with well-tested, rapid and exible responses.
We have a developed our approach including: rolling programme of major incident simulations to test and rene our Scenario planning and war gaming: We have already used these crisis management procedures.
Our security defences range from techniques to good effect in understanding traditional physical physical protection of our assets, access controls, real-time analysis business continuity threats.
This year we have also applied them to and sharing of intelligence, and continuous monitoring for intrusion some of the other risks we highlight below.
and anomalies, through to rapid modication of rewalls and Assurance: Our line of business and service unit audit and risk automated blocking of malicious data trafc.
Together, these committees have extended their focus on risk management across measures increase the likelihood that any potential incidents can be their business units.
Their advice, analysis and reviews have helped contained and dealt with as quickly as possible.
us get better at dealing with risks inside our business.
Guidance and toolkit refresh: We have updated our risk Major contracts management policy and guidance.
We have also added to the We have a number of complex and high-value national and toolkit that our risk management specialists and the wider multinational contracts with certain customers.
The revenue arising business use to put our risk management process into action.
from, and the profitability of these contracts are subject to a number of factors including: variation in cost: achievement of cost reductions Our principal risks anticipated in the contract pricing, both in terms of scale and time: Security and resilience delays in the delivery or achievement of agreed milestones owing to In keeping with other organisations that process and store data, we factors either within or outside of our control: changes in customers have a responsibility to many millions of customers, both business requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: and the performance and consumer, to safeguard their electronic information and to of our suppliers.
Any of these factors could make a contract less maintain the continuity of services.
This requires the highest levels of profitable or even loss making.
operational security and resilience, which can be threatened at any The degree of risk generally varies in proportion to the scope and time by incidents such as malicious cyber-attacks, theft of copper life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages of the cable and equipment, vandalism, sabotage, extreme weather, contract.
Some customer contracts require investment in the early component overload, loss of power and human error.
The volume of stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the trafc through our systems and networks is increasing, and customer contract.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new tolerance of interruptions reduces as the world becomes ever more systems and communications networks, transformation of legacy dependent on information technology.
networks and the development of new technologies.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may be impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance risk exists in these contracts.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy Changes over the last year The European Commission is reviewing the current Directive for The difficult economic and market conditions, particularly in Europe, pensions and we responded to a relevant consultation during the have increased financial and operational pressures on our customers year.
The Commissions aim is to issue new draft legislation in summer and have made the environment even more competitive.
Depending on its scope, there is potential for any legislative investment and expansion into high-growth regions, the landscape change to have an impact on BTs funding liabilities in the future.
We of our risks and opportunities naturally changes as we must deal will continue to monitor developments in this area.
with rapidly evolving geo-political risks and different trading Impact environments and business practices.
Our control and governance An increase in the pension deficit and associated funding framework has been extended to include contracts between BT and requirements may have an impact on the level of deficit payments we UK local authorities seeking to extend the reach of bre broadband in are required to make into the scheme.
Indirectly it may also have an their regions.
adverse impact on our share price and credit rating.
Any deterioration For larger contracts, we have recently expanded the scope of in our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing and may independent reviews to critical stages of the contract lifecycle to help limit the availability or exibility of future funding, thereby affecting identify any key issues, risks and actions which need to be monitored.
our ability to invest, pay dividends or repay debt as it matures.
Impact Risk mitigation Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these contracts, The investment performance and liability experience, as well as the as well as changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies or associated risks and any mitigation, are regularly reviewed and businesses, may lead to a reduction in our expected future revenue, monitored by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
Unexpectedly high costs associated The BTPS has a well-diversied investment strategy, which with the delivery of contracts could also negatively impact reduces the risk of adverse movements in the value of individual asset profitability.
We may lose revenue due to the merger or acquisition of classes and helps ensure that an efficient balance of risk and return is customers, business failure or contract termination and contracts may maintained.
Failure to replace the revenue and earnings lost Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of from such customers could lead to an overall reduction in group protection that enables variations in the funding position of the BTPS revenue, profitability and cash ow.
to be managed without having a material impact on the ongoing Risk mitigation performance of our business.
We have in place business processes that support each stage of a Growth in a competitive market major contracts lifecycle: bid: in-life: renewal: and termination.
Our We operate in markets which are characterised by: high levels of programme of in-life reviews is designed to validate financial and change: strong competition: declining prices: technology non-financial controls over delivery of the contract.
It incorporates substitution: market and service convergence: customer churn: tiered levels of dened reviews according to the scale and complexity declining revenues: new competitors: and regulatory intervention to of the contract.
Controls are applied and regularly monitored across promote competition and reduce wholesale prices.
All our major contracts are subject to regular A significant proportion of our revenue and profit is generated in management review and many are subject to independent review the UK where the overall telecoms market has been in decline in real both internal and external as part of that governance.
Our terms, despite strong volume growth in new services.
Revenue from independent review programme helps us apply lessons learned and to our calls and lines services to consumers and businesses has promote best practice through the business.
historically been in decline but new broadband and connectivity Pensions markets are growing.
Our ability to deliver profitable revenue growth We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our dened in a responsible and sustainable manner depends on us delivering on benefit pension schemes.
Low investment returns, high ination, our strategic priorities see page 3. longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost Changes over the last year of funding BTs main dened benefit pension scheme, the BT Pension The level of risk facing our business increased as the economic Scheme BTPS, becoming a significant burden on our financial situation in the UK and other key markets deteriorated in the year.
Depressed business activity together with lower disposable incomes Changes over the last year continues to be a major barrier to growing revenues, particularly Following the conclusion of the 30 June 2011 triennial funding among business customers.
valuation of the BTPS in May 2012, the valuation documentation was Regulatory decisions made during the year also contributed submitted to the Pensions Regulator for their review.
The final Court adversely to our risk prole, revenue and profits.
These decisions decision in the Crown Guarantee case, after any appeals, will give failed to address imbalances in the competitive playing eld.
This greater clarity as to the extent to which the liabilities of the BTPS means that some of our competitors in the consumer space continue are covered by a Crown Guarantee.
This will inform the Pensions to benefit from a combination of limited regulation on their core Regulators next steps with regards to the valuation of the Scheme.
business combined with extensive sector-specic regulation being Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to when they will applied to our UK xed-line business.
A number of competitor-related developments have contributed Government bond yields have fallen since the valuation at 30 June to the risk increasing.
These include, but are not limited to: the 2011, with real yields being negative at times.
This has been caused acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide by Vodafone: the decision by a number of factors, including the Bank of Englands Quantitative by Vodafone and O2 to establish a joint venture to consolidate Easing programme.
If the fall in yields is maintained and reected in existing network infrastructure and local transmission: the agreement the next funding valuation, due as at 30 June 2014, this would which brought forward the timetable for 4G mobile services being increase the value of the BTPS liabilities.
launched in the UK: and increased competitive activity around overthe-top video on demand services in the UK.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 11 Impact Regulation outside the UK can impact our revenue by restricting our Failure to achieve profitable revenue growth from our strategic ability to compete through overly restrictive licensing requirements priorities may lead to a continued decline in revenue, erosion of our or ineffective regulation of access to other CP networks.
competitive position and might also lead to a reduction in Risk mitigation profitability and cash ow in the future.
We employ a team of regulatory specialists including accountants Risk mitigation and economists who, together with legal experts and external Our mitigation of this risk centres on successfully executing our advisors, continuously monitor and review the scope for regulatory strategy.
We believe that delivering this strategy, with its focus on changes and potential future disputes.
This team maintains a customer service delivery, cost transformation and investing for the dialogue with regulators and with other key inuencers to ensure our future, as well as investing in our existing business and offering new positions are understood and to drive for fair and proportionate services in adjacent markets, will together help us drive profitable regulation.
We are also able to appeal any regulatory decisions where revenue growth.
we believe errors have been made.
We have a well-developed cost transformation programme in Business integrity and ethics place which should provide future savings to support profitability We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical trends.
We also believe risks can be mitigated by seeking changes in behaviour, and have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and regulation to level the playing eld so that we can compete corruption.
We have to comply with a wide range of local and effectively, and for the benefit of our customers.
international anti-corruption and bribery laws.
In particular the UK Communications industry regulation Bribery Act and US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA provide Our activities across all the jurisdictions in which we operate can be comprehensive anti-bribery legislation.
Both have extra-territorial impacted by regulation.
Regulatory requirements and constraints can reach and thereby cover our global operations.
As we expand directly impact our ability to compete effectively and earn revenues.
internationally, we are increasingly operating in countries identied In the UK where, following detailed market analysis, we are found as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
to have significant market power, Ofcom requires us to provide We also have to ensure compliance with trade sanctions, and wholesale services at regulated prices.
It can also require us to make import and export controls.
retrospective repayments to other CPs where we are found to have Changes over the last year set prices outside regulatory requirements, and can impose fines on The Serious Fraud Ofce SFO has produced revised guidance on the us for non-compliance with the regulatory rules, including UK Bribery Act.
The SFO has indicated it will now focus on its role as competition law.
an investigator and prosecutor of serious and or complex fraud and Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can restrict the where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, extent to which we can enter markets and compete.
Regulation will prosecutions rather than civil settlements will now be pursued, even also define the terms on which we can purchase key wholesale where companies have self-reported.
This represents a change to its services from others.
previous stance where self-reporting may have led to more lenient In the UK, risks can come from, for example, periodic market treatment.
It has further confirmed that it considers facilitation reviews which might introduce tighter regulatory constraints from payments to be bribes.
new charge controls or from CPs disputing or complaining about The US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange our pricing, products or services.
Outside the UK, regulators can Commission have also produced guidance on the FCPA giving investigate our licensing requirements and whether our services information about the US governments approach to FCPA comply with their rules.
Changes over the last year In addition, sanctions regulations in Europe and the US have been Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of expanded.
areas which are summarised in Regulation on page 19.
A number of Impact these rulings have resulted in a negative impact either through Failure by our employees, suppliers or agents to comply with retrospective price reductions or on our future pricing.
anti-corruption and bribery and sanctions legislation could result in Impact substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant damage to Risks from regulation are most significant in the UK.
This could in turn impact our future revenue and cash Around 5.8bn of our revenue of which 3.3bn is to downstream ow, the extent of which would be dependent on the nature of the parts of BT is from wholesale markets where we have been found to breach, the legislation concerned and any associated penalties.
hold significant market power and which are currently subject to Allegations of corruption or bribery or violation of sanctions regulatory charge controls.
Most of these controls require us to regulations could also lead to reputation and brand damage with reduce our prices annually to reect expected reductions in unit costs investors, regulators and customers.
Controls are usually set for three years and Risk mitigation will therefore constrain revenues during that period.
We have in place a number of controls to address risk in this area.
Other CPs can ask Ofcom to resolve disputes with us about current These include a comprehensive anti-corruption and bribery or historic prices.
Where Ofcom nds that these prices are or have programme, The Way We Work, which is our statement of business been set at levels above those required under the regulatory practice and is being refreshed to give greater guidance to our framework, we may need to make retrospective payments to CPs.
We ask all BT employees to sign up to its principles and our We may from time to time be required to provide new services, or anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have specic policies covering existing services on improved terms, to wholesale customers on a gifts and hospitality and charitable donations and sponsorship.
This could increase our costs.
run a training programme with a particular focus on roles such as procurement and sales.
12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy We regularly assess our business integrity risks to make sure that the We work closely with our suppliers to ensure that the goods and appropriate mitigation is in place.
services that we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
We also and environmentally responsible manner.
use external providers to carry out assessments in areas we believe to be higher risk, to ensure our policies are understood and the controls are functioning.
We conduct due diligence checks on third parties including suppliers and agents.
Procurement contracts include anti-corruption and bribery clauses.
A trade sanctions policy and sign-off procedure are also in place.
Supply chain The integrity and continuity of our supply chain is critical to our operations.
Our aim is to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of the global supply market to add value to our business and customers.
We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation to contracting and payment, are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
The failure of a critical third party supplier to meet its obligations could cause significant harm to our business and the BT brand, as well as potentially impact our cost transformation and efficiency plans.
Changes over the last year Many suppliers continue to be impacted by the global economic downturn and as a result we have seen an increase in the number of suppliers suffering from financial distress.
The downturn has also increased the risk of suppliers applying less focus on key areas such as business continuity management or corporate and social responsibility in an effort to reduce their costs.
Impact Whilst the size of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, all supplier failures typically result in an increased cost to our business and have the potential to negatively impact the service we provide to customers.
In many cases the cost associated with supplier failure is significant, particularly if it then results in us having to change technology.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative supplier, our customer commitments could also be compromised, possibly leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue, penalties or increased costs.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Risk mitigation We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy and where possible, take actions to reduce risk, such as through dualsourcing where appropriate.
We operate a comprehensive in-life risk mitigation programme that classies our suppliers into an appropriate risk category and then aims proactively to build risk mitigation plans and detect potential supplier failures before they happen.
For our critical suppliers this mitigation strategy considers a range of risks including: financial failure: supplier capability and capacity: sole sourcing: corporate and social responsibility: business continuity: security: location: and the overall supplier relationship.
This approach has been complemented by a programme specically looking at our low spend suppliers, to ensure we achieve maximum business benefit but at the same time do not contract with too many suppliers, exposing us to unnecessary risk.
By adopting this approach, we seek to minimise the risk of not being able to meet our customer and legal commitments or comply with our ethical policies.
This helps to minimise our exposure to loss of revenue, financial penalty and any adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 13
