28 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Risk management Effective risk management is a key Principal risks component of the companys business Strategic model and assists in ensuring that the Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business different parts of the group operate model to deliver long term growth in capital and income and the effective communication and delivery of the within acceptable risk parameters.
The board has overall responsibility for Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of setting and monitoring the level of risk capital in relation to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
the company is prepared to accept.
Investment Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation decisions.
Investment risks include the appropriate research and due diligence of new investments and the timely execution of investment realisations for optimal shareholder value.
Market Risk of losses in investments arising from movements in market prices, particularly in highly volatile markets.
Caledonia invests primarily in listed equities, private companies and equity funds.
Its principal market risks are therefore equity price volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks, along with sensitivities, is included in note 21 to these accounts.
Liquidity Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due to a lack of liquidity.
Such risk can arise from not being able to sell an investment due to lack of a market or from not holding cash or being able to raise debt.
Operational Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors.
Operational risks include recruiting, retaining and developing staff, appropriate systems and procedures, business disruption, exposure to litigation or fraud and adherence to the tax and regulatory environment.
Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 29 Mitigation Key developments The companys business model and strategy are The portfolio was restructured during the year from reviewed periodically, against market conditions six to four pools of capital, resulting in simplified and target returns.
A new financial communications agency was appointed The performance of the company and its key risks are to assist in communication of the companys business monitored regularly by management and the board.
Borrowing levels and facilities require board approval and are carefully monitored and reported.
Pool managers have well-developed networks through The company has continued to strengthen its internal which they attract proprietary deal flow.
resources to ensure appropriate and specific skills exist to undertake due diligence processes.
Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous and The investment appraisal and approval process has disciplined investment appraisals and multi-stage been standardised to ensure consistent quality and approval processes.
Target entry and exit events and enable comparison between opportunities.
prices are monitored and updated regularly, in relation to market conditions and strategic aims.
Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed on a weekly The company has introduced internal risk return basis and actions taken to balance appropriately risk reporting to help identify changes in the portfolio and return.
Scenario reviews are undertaken to assess the impact A regular review of market and investment volatility and of alternative asset allocation and whether it would value at risk is conducted by the board and the portfolio better meet the companys aims.
is realigned with strategic aims where appropriate.
Reviews also consider investment concentration, currency and liquidity exposures.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months in advance is The company has realised investments over the year updated and reviewed weekly, including the expected to build a cash balance amounting to 96m at the drawdown of capital commitments.
The borrowing facilities were renegotiated for a Listed portfolio liquidity is reviewed regularly.
further five years, although reduced to 75m from Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate the previous level of 100m.
Systems and control procedures are developed and A controls assurance programme has been developed, reviewed regularly.
They are tested, as part of the with the Risk Manager reviewing and testing annual programme of controls assurance, to ensure key controls and procedures and reporting to the effective operation.
Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place to encourage the retention of key staff.
Business continuity plans are maintained, using an offsite facility.
