The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 17 Report of the Directors continued h Principal risks and uncertainties confirm regulatory compliance, and an annual report which is The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company audited.
More details are given on page 21. and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as designed to provide effective internal control, are explained practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and further in the internal controls section on page 21. the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Further details of the Companys exposure to market risk Portfolio and market price including market price risk, currency risk and interest rate Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities risk, liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk and that are listed on recognised markets, share prices may how they are managed are contained in Note 16 on pages move rapidly.
The companies in which investments are 41 to 45. made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an Corporate Governance Statement adverse effect on equity shareholders funds.
The Board a Applicable corporate governance codes reviews the portfolio at the eight Board meetings each year.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance The Portfolio Manager closely monitors the portfolio of the Companys affairs.
Paragraph 7.2 of the Disclosure and between meetings and mitigates this risk through Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority requires all diversification of investments.
listed companies to publish a corporate governance Investment activity, gearing and performance statement, while paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules requires An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result principles and complied with the provisions of the UK in underperformance against the Companys benchmark.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As an investment The Board monitors investment performance at each Board trust, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are meeting and regularly reviews the level of gearing.
delegated to third parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the Tax and regulatory provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed on capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to 30 September 2010 that it remained the view of the FRC that corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA UK Listing by following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Authority Listing Rules could result in suspension of the Companies produced by the Association of Investment Companys shares, while a breach of the Companies Act 2006 Companies the AIC Guide, published in October 2010, could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial or reputational boards of investment companies should fully meet their damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance with obligations in relation to the Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the the listing rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance published in October 2010 the AIC Code applies to the Company.
Operational The AIC Code, and the related Corporate Governance Guide Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, for Investment Companies, are accessible at www.
dealing or payment systems or custody records could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc believes Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed that reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers Guide will provide the most appropriate information to may not provide the required level of service.
shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
The Manager has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through b Statement of compliance qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors believe reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which that during the year under review they have complied with
