Close Brothers Group plc 24 Annual Report 2013 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties We aim to achieve an appropriate balance between assuming risk We have listed below the principal risks and uncertainties we face, and generating returns through: how we seek to manage and mitigate those risks as well as how Adhering to our prudent and established business model we believe they have changed over the last financial year.
We have outlined on pages 8 and 9: also highlighted where further information can be found in this Following an integrated risk management approach as set out report relevant to the individual risk or uncertainty.
The risks and on page 37: and uncertainties faced are broadly unchanged from previous years.
Maintaining clearly defined risk appetites with clear limits and metrics which are applied to our day to day business decisions.
The disclosures below should not be regarded as a comprehensive list of the risks and uncertainties faced by the This approach has served the group well historically and the group group but rather a summary of those which the group currently has been consistently profitable in a wide range of trading faces and believes have the potential to have a significant impact environments.
While this framework helps us mitigate the risks we on its financial performance and future prospects.
face, we remain exposed to a range of key risks and uncertainties which have the potential to affect the performance of the group.
Key: No change Risk decreased Risk increased Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Economic environment The groups businesses typically trade in Adverse economic conditions, particularly specialist areas where they have The economic environment has not in the UK where the majority of the groups developed significant market knowledge changed materially and each of our business is transacted, could affect the and expertise.
Across the divisions, the divisions has continued to trade profitably.
groups performance in multiple ways group aims to build long-term relationships However, the outlook remains uncertain.
including: with its customers adding resilience to Reduced demand for the groups trading performance in difficult economic Further commentary on the attributes products and services: conditions.
and resilience of the groups business Higher bad debts resulting from model is shown on pages 8 and 9 of customers inability to repay loans and Exposure is further mitigated in our the Corporate Overview.
lower asset values for security held Banking business by the conservative loan against those loans: and to value ratios underwritten and the short Reduced investor risk appetite reducing term, secured nature of our lending.
trading income for our Securities division.
The group carries out regular stress testing to test that the historic resilience of its businesses can be expected to continue.
Close Brothers Group plc 25 Annual Report 2013 Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Credit losses Our lending businesses apply consistent The group faces credit and counterparty and conservative lending criteria to our While impairment losses have fallen during risk across its divisions but particularly in loan underwriting.
In addition to mitigate the past year, the economic outlook for our relation to its Banking activities.
The group credit risk we have: customers remains uncertain.
Wehave advances loans to a range of corporate, Robust processes that facilitate the maintained our lending criteria and surplus SME and individual borrowers.
In addition, assessment of the credit quality and funding continues to be concentrated in the group places surplus funding with covenant of the underlying borrower: Bank of England deposits and UK gilts.
other financial institutions and has a limited Lending on a predominantly secured number of derivative contracts to hedge basis with significant emphasis on the Further commentary on the credit interest rate, foreign exchange and equity quality of the underlying security to quality of our loan book is outlined on exposures in its treasury operations.
minimise any loss should the customer page 14.
Further details on loans and not be able to repay: and advances to customers and debt Timely and rigorous collections and securities are in notes 12 and 13 on arrears management processes.
pages 82 and 83 of the Financial Statements.
The majority of the groups lending is short term and average loan size is small with the result that few individual loans have the capacity to materially impact the groups earnings.
We monitor the credit quality of the counterparties with whom we place deposits, enter into derivative contracts or whose debt securities are held to ensure these remain within approved limits.
Interest rate and foreign currency derivatives are solely held to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
Similarly, equity derivatives are only held to hedge embedded derivatives within our structured deposits funding.
In our Securities businesses exposure is limited as we trade in the cash markets with regulated counterparties on a delivery versus payment basis such that any credit exposure is limited to price movements in the underlying securities.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are in place.
Regulatory change The group actively monitors regulatory and The group operates in a highly regulated legal developments and maintains a The UK regulatory regime changed from environment.
Regulatory and legislative constructive and regular dialogue with 1April 2013 with the result that the group changes have the potential to significantly therelevant regulatory authorities.
We has two new regulators, the Prudential impact the groups markets and financial continue to believe our straightforward Regulation Authority and the Financial performance.
business model, transparent approach and Conduct Authority.
The new regulatory strong liquidity and capital positions mean relationships combined with the continuing we are well placed to adapt to regulatory significant regulatory and political focus on change.
During the year we have the financial services industry increases the enhanced our conduct risk management risk of material impact from regulatory framework as we continue to focus on changes.
ensuring we treat clients and business counterparties in a fair and transparent The groups approach to regulatory manner.
change during the year is discussed in the Risk Committee report on pages 38 and 39.
Further detail on the groups capital, funding and liquidity position is outlined on pages 15 and 16.
Close Brothers Group plc 26 Annual Report 2013 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Employees The human resources function reviews our The skill and experience of our people is performance management framework and The groups specialist teams remain central to our distinctive business model the reward and incentive schemes regularly targets for our competitors.
However, the and therefore retention of our key to ensure we are successful in retaining results of the groups employee survey employees is fundamental to the groups and attracting the right calibre of employees.
showed that an overwhelming majority of performance.
the groups staff value working for the The group has succession plans in place group.
for its key employees and remains committed to developing its employees.
Further detail on the employee survey and our investment in our people is outlined in Corporate Responsibility on pages 44 to 46 of Governance.
Technology The group invests in its IT platforms to The groups businesses need to ensure ensure they remain up to date and fit for We continue to invest in our IT they maintain a robust IT infrastructure to purpose for all of the markets in which we infrastructure to ensure we are well placed support their operations and are able to operate.
Business continuity plans are in to respond to new technology and cyber respond to new technology.
place to ensure we are able to respond to threats.
Further detail on the technology related During the year we have continued to investment in the Banking division is update our IT infrastructure including outlined on page 19. migrating data centres to specialist third party providers and enhancing data security.
Competition Across all our businesses we aim to build We operate in competitive markets and long-term relationships and generate We have begun to see increasing increased competition has the potential to repeat business by operating in a fair and competition in parts of our Banking impact on our performance.
transparent manner and offering a business, while in Securities and Asset differentiated proposition across each of Management the markets remain highly Government backed funding schemes our businesses.
This is done by, inter alia: competitive.
have the potential to alter the competitive Speed and flexibility of service: environment for our lending activities.
Local presence with experienced staff: Further commentary on the market Product choice: and environment for the Banking division is Pricing.
Funding The groups funding and liquidity are The group requires access to funding, actively managed within clearly defined risk The group has continued to access a wide principally to provide liquidity and support appetites.
range of funding markets during the year.
lending in its Banking businesses.
The outlook for further funding access During the year we have accessed: remains positive.
Retail funding markets: Corporate deposits: Further commentary on funding and Interbank facilities: and liquidity is provided on pages 15 and 16 Securitised funding.
Further financial analysis of our funding at 31 July 2013 is Total funding is 6.3 billion or 135% of the shown in note 21 on page 91 of the loan book at 31 July 2013 and is Financial Statements.
The surplus provides adequate liquidity, particularly given the duration of our lending.
Liquidity in the Banking division is assessed on a daily basis to ensure it remains above both internal and regulatory requirements.
Close Brothers Group plc 27 Annual Report 2013 Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Execution of strategy We devote significant time and resources We have experienced significant growth in to the development and execution of our The group has made further progress in our banking businesses since 2009 in line strategic plans, including a formal annual executing its organic strategic plans.
In with our strategic plans and have made a review of plans of all of the divisions with particular the Asset Management significant investment, including some the group board.
restructuring has been completed and the acquisitions, in our Asset Management division has returned to profitability.
business, as well as setting up Winterflood Our plans are to predominately grow Business Services within the Securities organically with significant due diligence Further commentary on the groups division.
and performance hurdles set before strategy is outlined on pages 10 and 11 acquisitions are considered.
Failure to invest in our businesses to support growth, to respond to changes in We constantly monitor performance our markets or to execute plans to integrate against our plans through key performance acquisitions while retaining existing and and risk indicators and have sound attracting new customers in our Asset corporate governance practices to ensure Management business, has the potential to strategic decision making is based on affect future earnings and delivery of our carefully considered principles.
Exposure to markets Our Securities businesses primarily act as The group is exposed to market market-makers, providing liquidity in short The groups approach is consistent with movements deriving from trading in equity dated exchange traded products.
Position prior years and the risk is considered and fixed income securities.
limits are set annually for each product, unchanged.
sector and individual stock with real time Interest income is a substantial proportion monitoring and oversight by senior Further detail on the groups exposure of the groups revenues.
tomarket risk is outlined in note33 on interest rates have the potential to affect pages 109 and 110 of the Financial the groups earnings.
The groups policy is to match fixed and Statements.
variable interest rate liabilities and assets While the majority of the groups activities utilising interest rate swaps where are located in the UK and transacted in necessary.
Returns from the groups sterling, the group is subject to foreign capital and reserves are necessarily exchange exposure.
The group has subject to interest rate fluctuations and as currency assets and liabilities, principally a matter of policy are not hedged.
A lending, borrowings and customer sensitivity analysis on interest rate deposits, within the Banking division.
In exposures is shown on page 109. addition the group has a small number of overseas subsidiaries and currency The foreign exchange exposures arising denominated investments.
from the Banking divisions assets and liabilities are managed by matching assets and liabilities by currency and the limited use of foreign currency swaps.
Exposures are monitored daily against centrally authorised limits.
The group does not take speculative proprietary positions in foreign currency.
The group does not hedge its currency exposure to its overseas subsidiaries and currency investments since it is relatively modest.
A sensitivity analysis on foreign currency exposures is shown on page 109.
