Principal risks and uncertainties Effective management of risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objective of creating superior shareholder returns.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and the review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Under the leadership of the Group Head of Risk, Bodycote has developed the risk management framework to identify, report and manage its business critical risks.
The Risk Committee, established in 2012, continued to meet during the year attended by senior managers from each of the operating divisions.
The role of the Risk Committee is to embed risk management and facilitate the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
A variety of approaches are used to identify and report risks, which are aggregated first at a sub-divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and this is used to direct assurance activity.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented in December.
In addition, the Board examines a specific risk topic at each Board meeting.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 7.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
Furthermore, there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation Market and Customer Risks Markets Bodycotes exposure to macroeconomic performance means that it suffers Implement strategic plan with medium-term objective of abovefrom a certain level of sales volatility.
A substantial proportion of Bodycotes market sales growth, a focus on targeted premium growth sales are closely linked to the economic cycle.
Sales in the markets served business segments and a more balanced geographic spread.
by the AGI businesses 64% of the total Group tend mainly to develop in line Maintain flexibility of cost base for example, by ensuring that a with or ahead of the economic cycle, whereas ADE sales 36% tend to track proportion of the workforce is employed on temporary contracts.
Sales can also be impacted by energy prices which Respond quickly to changes in customer demand on a local or a in turn can be affected by general economic activity.
The high proportion of Group-wide level.
fixed costs in the business means that a drop in sales may have a significant Wide geographical and market sector spread of Group sales.
However Bodycotes presence in 26 countries in a wide variety of end-markets acts as a natural hedge to neutralise localised economic volatility.
Nevertheless, the Board is mindful of the potential impact on demand for the Groups services.
Loss of key customers Bodycote benefits from many long-term relationships with key customers.
Continued focus on customer service and quality processes to Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships would be detrimental to maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
Use key Group results and could affect the viability of one or more of Bodycotes account management to monitor customer satisfaction with the facilities.
However, the Board believes this is unlikely as Bodycote strives Groups service levels.
to provide a high level of customer service and the Groups network of Ensure there is no significant customer dependency.
strategically located facilities ensures that it is the supplier of choice to these major manufacturers.
Furthermore there is no significant customer dependency, with the Groups top ten customers accounting for less than 13% of sales and the balance made up by many thousands of customers.
Corporate and Community Risks Human resources Bodycote is reliant on its ability to attract, develop and retain staff of the right Continue the implementation of the HR strategy to address the calibre to support its growth strategy.
Competition for capable resources long-term development and retention of staff.
is high and there is a risk that Bodycote may not be able to attract or retain Develop succession plans.
As a market leader Bodycote is seen as a source of talent by Ensure performance management processes are properly competitors, while the Group competes with employers from a wide range of implemented and used effectively.
sectors to attract staff into the business.
24 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Risk Description and Impact Mitigation Corporate and Community Risks continued Safety and health Bodycote is committed to providing a safe work environment for its Group-wide health and safety policies set by the Chief Executive.
The nature of Bodycotes activities presents safety and health risks Bodycote SHE management system standard, being implemented which can have a significant impact on individual employees.
Furthermore based on OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. poor safety and health practices could lead to disruption of business, financial Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could penalties and loss of reputation.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group SHE Committee.
Environment Bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection to the Remediation of contaminated sites as required by local legislation.
Environmental contamination could lead to health risks, Reduction in the use of hazardous substances, such as chlorinated disruption of business, financial costs and loss of reputation.
Environmental procedures and measures in place conforming to Historical use of chlorinated solvents and other hazardous chemicals by plants ISO 14001 2013: 85% of plants.
operated by Bodycote or by plants acquired by Bodycote could have led to Environmental due diligence of businesses for acquisition.
The environmental regulations in many of the jurisdictions in which Bodycote operates impose actual or potential obligations on Bodycote to remediate contaminated sites.
Bodycote incurs costs annually 2013: 1.6m in meeting its obligations and has a provision of 13.2m at 31 December 2013 in respect of required environmental remediation costs.
If the provision is insufficient to meet the cost of remediation, then this could have an impact on the Groups results.
Some of the Groups heat treatment plants continue to use chlorinated solvents and hazardous chemicals in small quantities.
Operational Risks Service quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on the repeatable delivery of parts to agreed Maintain industry relevant accreditations.
specification to an agreed time.
Deterioration in quality or service levels could Quality systems and processes operated at plant level, supervised cause serious long-term damage to Bodycotes reputation with financial by divisional quality teams.
consequences such as the loss of a customer and the cost of damages or All plants subjected to internal and external quality audits and litigation.
Work that is released into use which is not in compliance with inspections at least once a year.
specification could arise as a result of system or human failure.
Bodycote has stringent quality systems in place managed by qualified staff.
Where necessary, plants have relevant accreditations such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and TS 16949.
Major disruption at a facility Bodycotes business processes have inherent risks and there is a possibility OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 compliant SHE management systems that a major fire or utility outage could lead to closure of a facilitys operation.
being used by Group Head of Safety, Health and Environment with In addition a number of sites are exposed to natural hazards, such as support of divisional safety and health teams.
As a result there is a possibility that service Programmed equipment maintenance and inspections.
to Bodycotes customers from the affected site could be disrupted.
However Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business Bodycotes global network of over 190 plants creates a framework to provide interruption risks.
backup capability for any affected facility.
Business continuity plans developed for all plants.
Information technology systems The efficient operation of the Group will rely increasingly on the proper Defined disaster recovery planning and data backup procedures.
development and operation of its IT systems.
Bodycote is currently undergoing Project approval and progress subject to Board review.
a Group-wide implementation of a new ERP system.
The impact of the Project teams made up of skilled subject matter experts re-engineered business process will have significant long-term benefits supplemented with third party advisers.
However, failure to manage the Best practice project management processes in place with implementation programme successfully could result in cost overruns and assurance provided by third parties.
potentially, disruption to the business.
Regulatory Risks Regulatory and legislative compliance The global nature of Bodycotes operations means that the Group has to comply Establish business processes supported by HR policies and the with a wide range of local and international legislative requirements, including Group Code of Conduct.
anti-bribery and anti-competition legislation, taxation legislation, employment law The Open Door Line whistleblower facility which is managed by a and import and export controls.
Failure to comply with legislation could lead to third party.
substantial financial penalties, disruption to business, diversion of management Training and awareness programmes.
time, personal and corporate liability and loss of reputation.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
com 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell Additional Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
