Risk management Managing risk We have a robust and integrated risk management framework.
This framework sets out and enables the monitoring of the responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management and internal control for the whole business.
The Board has responsibility for setting and monitoring Our risk and compliance strategy is designed adherence to the risk strategy, risk appetite and risk framework.
to support our goal to become Britains best The Board has established a risk management model that retail general insurer.
separates the businesss risk management responsibilities into three lines of defence as set out in the diagram below.
Jos Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer Our risk governance structure Direct Line Group Board Board Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Risk Management Committee Executive 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Risk ownership Oversight, challenge and support of 1st line Independent assurance Personal Lines 2nd line function: Risk management tools: Group Audit Commercial Risk and Compliance High Level Controls and System International of Governance document Claims ERM strategy Chief Customer Office Functions with 1st and 2nd ERM framework Finance line responsibilities: Delegated authorities Chief Information Office Legal Group policies Human Resources Company Secretarial Minimum standards Communications Finance Risk appetite Human Resources Advice and guidance Assurance and monitoring Notes: 1.
The 1st line of defence is provided by line managers who are responsible for ownership and management of the risks to the achievement of business objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The 2nd line of defence is provided by specialist control functions, including Risk and Compliance, which are responsible for the provision of proportionate oversight of the business and related or emerging risks.
Group Audit delivers the 3rd line of defence through the provision of an independent view for the Board on the effectiveness of risk management.
The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive and reports to the Chief Executive Officer, with a right of access to the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, assuring independence of the function.
The Chief Risk Officer chairs the Risk Management Committee, which reviews material policies for the effective management of risk across the Group.
22 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Managing risk in line with Group strategy Our ERM framework Group strategy development is the responsibility of Strategic risk objective Risk appetite statement management and ultimately the Board.
Maintain capital Maintain sufficient economic capital Our strategic planning process aims to ensure that we have adequacy consistent with the aim of achieving developed a clear set of objectives and targets and have a stand-alone credit rating in the identified the action plans necessary to deliver them.
must be consistent with our overall objective of a 15% RoTE Stable and efficient Meet all cash outflow requirements, and be delivered in line with our risk appetite.
For information access to funding including those that arise following on our strategy see page 18. and liquidity a 1 in 200 year insurance, market Delivering a strategic plan will, by its very nature, result in or credit risk event.
Management of this risk is therefore a key aspect Maintain stakeholder No appetite for material risks leading of the strategic planning process and it is important that the link confidence to reputational damage, regulatory between strategy and its impact on capital is clear.
We place or legal censure, fines or prosecutions Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM at the very heart and other types of operational risk of our approach.
losses associated with the firms We recognise that our long-term sustainability depends on conduct and activities.
having sufficient funds to meet our liabilities as they fall due.
This protects our reputation and the integrity of our relationship ERM is the process of organising and controlling the activities with customers and other stakeholders.
For information on our of the whole Group so as to ensure the Group remains within allocation of capital by risk type see page 42. risk appetite.
To enable ERM we have developed a framework comprising a number of components which are fundamental to Risk strategy and appetite good risk management.
These are set out in the graphic overleaf.
The risk appetite statements are expressions of the level of risk we are prepared to accept to achieve our business objectives.
A central component of the ERM framework is our policy In order to monitor whether we are within risk appetite, we framework, consisting of policies and minimum standards.
have aligned the statements to key business metrics, such as These inform the business how it needs to conduct its activities volumes of business or levels of exposure.
These metrics form so as to remain within risk appetite.
key risk indicators, which are both qualitative and quantitative The policies cover the key risks to which we are exposed.
and forward and backward looking, and our risk profile is Policies are supported by minimum standards which set out monitored regularly using these indicators to ensure we remain the minimum level of risk management and other corporate within appetite.
and personal behaviours that must be complied with.
Where We have an appetite for general insurance risk, with a focus appropriate, these minimum standards are in turn supported on personal lines and commercial SME insurance in the UK by detailed guidance documents.
and direct motor insurance in selected overseas countries.
To support our primary activity of insurance, we have an We also employ a number of risk tools to manage and monitor appetite for appropriate non-insurance risks.
our risks, the output of which is tested and reported upon both internally and externally.
Risk appetite should not be static and we are committed to performing, as a minimum, an annual review of the risk appetite to ensure it remains suitable to support the Group.
Such a review was undertaken in the second quarter of 2013 and resulted in Board approval of the risk appetite statements outlined in the table.
We would also review risk appetite if the Groups strategy changed, ensuring risk management remains aligned to the Group strategy.
The risk appetite statements are aligned with the Boards strategic risk objectives.
Over the last 12 months, to help achieve these strategic risk objectives, we have: Strengthened financial risk oversight by developing the risk management function through tailored recruitment Enhanced the ERM framework to reflect our operation as a stand-alone Group Realigned risk management and oversight responsibilities as part of the three lines of defence model Increased our focus on customer conduct risks in line with our Group objectives as well as with the objectives of the FCA.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 Risk management continued Culture Our culture and ERM framework are mutually supportive.
Our culture encompasses all risk management Group strategy activity and helps embed risk management within our business.
Our ERM strategy supports our Group strategy.
ERM strategy Group strategy, ERM strategy, risk Risk appetite appetite and policy framework are approved by the Board.
Policy framework The ERM strategy is enabled using risk management tools such as risk appetite Key elements of the risk management process and the capital model.
Risk assessment Control environment Underpinning these tools are IRISS, Issues management including MRA certification our specialist risk management software, comprehensive risk management training and communication.
Reporting and management information Capital model IRISS, risk training and communication Notes: MRA Material risk assessment IRISS Internal Risk Intelligence Software System facilitates a robust and consistent approach to the way we capture risk information.
Our ERM framework has been made stronger during 2013 Solvency II as a result of: Making use of Pillar I models, the PRA has developed the Individual Capital Adequacy Standards Plus ICAS process The linking of risk strategy and governance to our risk to enable UK insurers to make use of capital models developed appetite and policy frameworks, documented in our High under Solvency II programmes.
Level Controls and System of Governance document The ICAS process will also enable firms to obtain feedback Improvements to our internal control environment selfon their progress towards Solvency II.
U K Insurance Limited certification process has engaged with this ICAS process and has used the The development of our Own Risk and Solvency new internal model for this purpose.
This ICAS submission Assessment ORSA which supports the achievement included Pillar II elements which are currently in development.
of our strategic objectives The Groups internal model produces Solvency II, Individual The introduction of a risk culture which helps our Capital Adequacy and economic capital requirements for understanding and measurement of how well risk the UK general insurance business.
is embedded within the Group The Groups risk management system, including the automated risk management tool, is being embedded and the Solvency II The ERM framework: enhanced by an effective data warehouse implementation is continuing to progress.
The risk and control culture Group expects Solvency II to be in force on 1 January 2016 Risk culture is about how the principles, processes and tools with the Internal Model Approval Process taking place in of the risk framework are applied in day-to-day behaviour.
As a result, the risk management team is developing a A good risk culture is one where risk management is a revised timeline for progress towards internal model approval significant part of the way we work.
Our Group values and engaging with the PRA about the Groups self-assessment align to the risk culture and seek to promote proactive of its progress towards Solvency II.
In addition, the requirement under Pillar III will result in Our risk culture focuses on the key areas of strategy, additional reporting requirements both to the PRA and to employees, promoting good governance, communication, external stakeholders.
The Group continues to make progress systems and reporting.
We believe that the ERM framework to ensure all requirements will be met in line with developing is made stronger by the promotion of a good risk culture best practice.
24 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risks are always present in our business.
The key role of the Risk function is to ensure that these risks have been identified and measured and are monitored and reported throughout the business on an ongoing basis.
The Risk function also monitors changes in these risks over time.
We believe that these risks are broadly unchanged over the last 12 months.
Principal risks Management and mitigation examples Strategic risk We have agreed strategic targets which are monitored The external environment could put at risk our ability to and managed meet our strategic objectives through the five key strategic Risk assessment of projects designed to enhance pricing and priorities of distribution, pricing, claims, costs and claims capability Commercial and International.
Our multi-channel approach provides diversification, which mitigates this risk Monitoring of cost savings to ensure they remain on track The Chief Executive Officer owns and manages this risk Insurance risk: underwriting and pricing We have set underwriting guidelines for all business transacted, We are subject to the risk that inappropriate business could restricting the types and classes of business that may be accepted be written or not specifically excluded and inappropriate Pricing is refined through analysis of comprehensive data prices charged.
Catastrophe reinsurance is purchased, limiting our exposure to large losses.
We also purchase excess of loss cover on our Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk arising from Motor portfolio, as well as other selected reinsurance covers losses due to unpredictable natural and man-made events affecting multiple covered risks, particularly given the We invest in enhanced external data to mitigate exposures, concentration of our Home business in the UK.
for example flood and individual underwriting risk through Geospatial The Managing Directors of each division own and manage this risk Insurance risk: reserving We estimate the technical reserves using a range of actuarial Due to the uncertain nature and timing of the risks to which and statistical techniques.
Projections of ultimate claims cost we are exposed, we cannot precisely determine the amounts involve assumptions across a range of variables, including that we will ultimately pay to meet the liabilities covered by estimates of trends in claims frequency and average claim the insurance policies written.
These are based on facts and circumstances at a given point in time Reserving risk is our biggest risk, generated by our large We ensure that managements best estimate of reserves Motor portfolio.
Reserving risk is heightened in the case of is not less than the actuarial best estimate periodic payment orders PPOs because of their long-term The Chief Financial Officer owns and manages this risk nature and is discussed further in the finance review on page 39 and in notes 2.1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 120 and 123 respectively.
Reserving generates both upside and downside risk, with the potential for outcomes to be in our favour, generating reserve releases.
Counterparty risk We set credit limits for each counterparty We partner with many suppliers and the failure of any Our reinsurance is purchased only from reinsurers that hold of these to perform their financial obligations in a timely a minimum credit rating of Aat the time cover is purchased manner could result in a financial loss.
The business actively monitors broker credit exposures Our principal area of counterparty risk is our use of The Chief Financial Officer owns and manages this risk reinsurance against underwriting risk, sometimes called reinsurance risk or reinsurer default risk.
Market risk We manage and control our investment portfolio through: We are subject to the risk that, as a result of market Investment strategy and guidelines proposed to the movements, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the Board by the Investment Committee and monitored value of our assets or the income from our assets.
by the Asset and Liability Committee Diversity in the types of assets held, including by For the Group this includes: interest rate risk, spread risk, geography, sector and credit rating currency risk and property risk.
We use risk reduction techniques such as hedging foreign currency exposures with forwards and hedging foreign interest rates with swaps The Chief Financial Officer owns and manages this risk Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Risk management continued Principal risks Management and mitigation examples Operational risk We have strong operational processes and systems, We potentially face the risks of direct or indirect losses including fraudulent claims detection systems.
Our risk, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes business and capital strategies are integrated or fraudulent claims: from systems and people: or from We maintain a robust internal control environment external events.
We have developed a bespoke risk capture, management In particular we have IT systems risk, including that we are and reporting system IRISS highly dependent on the use of RBS Groups information Ongoing migration of IT away from RBS Group on to technology, software, data and service providers.
a new enhanced platform is continually monitored and managed by experienced personnel Migrating IT systems away from RBS Group introduces different operational risks: there is increased likelihood We have strong recruitment processes to help our aim of system failure at the point that functions are moved of ensuring that the right people are recruited and placed onto new infrastructure.
Further, if the migration fails into the right roles to stay on schedule, we will incur charges for remaining In addition to mandatory training, employees are encouraged on RBS Group IT infrastructure.
to use the large number of training tools available to enhance their abilities IT migration also introduces people risk, as management may be distracted away from day-to-day activities.
Specific members of the Executive own and manage the different aspects of operational risks Operational risk includes cyber risk, the risks relating to the use of computers, other IT and the storage of data.
Within this category, we also consider the risk of the Group not recruiting and retaining suitable talent.
This risk is particularly important during the Groups current period of change.
Regulatory risk We have a constructive and open relationship with Regulatory risk arises if changes in law and regulations our regulators are not identified or understood, or are inappropriately In addition, we use specific risk management tools and and incorrectly interpreted or adopted.
resources, such as our upstream risk team, to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk In particular, Solvency II regulations are currently being introduced.
Solvency II requirements are still uncertain We exercise risk-based monitoring to ensure our resources and subject to the outcome of discussion between UK are used to greatest impact and European regulators.
The outcome and impact of The Chief Risk Officer owns and manages this risk the ICAS process is also uncertain.
These uncertainties increase our level of risk.
Regulatory risk also includes the risk that business practices are not efficiently modified following a regulatory change.
Further, there is a risk that current legal or regulatory requirements are not complied with.
Conduct risk Our organisational culture prioritises a consistent approach We are subject to the risk of failing to deliver the towards customers and the interests of customers are at the appropriate treatment for our customers throughout all heart of how we operate stages of the customer journey and the risk that our people We have developed a robust customer conduct risk fail to behave with integrity.
management framework, to minimise our exposure to conduct risk This includes the risk that our organisational culture is not appropriate, with a failure to communicate the correct tone The Chief Executive Officer owns and manages this risk from the top.
Brand and reputational risk Our brand and reputational risk is regularly reviewed through We are dependent on the strength of our brands, our our governance framework reputation with customers and distributors in the sale of We undertake substantial marketing activities to protect and products and services.
We have entered into various build our brands, and regularly measure their effectiveness strategic partnerships that are important to the marketing, Specific members of the Executive own and manage this risk sale and distribution of our products.
26 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Evolving risks Risks can emerge and evolve over time, often as a result of changes in the environment in which we operate.
As part of our risk management framework, we aim to identify these risks as they first emerge, working efficiently to mitigate their potential impact on the business.
Set out below are examples of current significant evolving risks and the way in which we monitor and mitigate these risks.
Evolving risk details Our actions Insurance risk: claims costs Monitoring claims costs to identify trends Bodily injury claims costs are a key source of uncertainty with several in the settlement of bodily injury claims regulatory, legal and market pressures facing the Group, including: Investigating proposed changes in regulation and legislation and using risk Underlying trends in bodily injury claims frequency and average cost fora to discuss these changes and develop per claim inflation a business response The results of the MoJ consultation into the discount rate used to value Investigating asset-liability matching certain types of bodily injury claim awards opportunities that would mitigate this risk The propensity for large injury claims to settle as PPOs, and the inflation and longevity assumptions used to value PPOs The impact on claims costs of the MoJ consultation and Transport Committee investigation into whiplash injuries.
Regulatory risk: regulatory environment Investigating proposed changes in The UK insurance market is subject to several regulatory reviews and potential regulation and legislation and using risk areas of focus which are sources of uncertainty, including: fora to discuss these changes and develop a business response The CC investigation into aspects of the private motor insurance market Regular contact with the regulator to ensure The FCAs market study of general insurance add-on products the business is kept abreast of changes in expectations The FCAs thematic review of complaints and claims handling Where appropriate, participation in The impacts of Flood Re and the proposed levy on home insurance premiums lobbying There is also uncertainty around the way in which the FCA may apply the principles underpinning behavioural economics to the insurance industry and the impact that this has on our business.
The EU is currently developing new EU Data Protection Regulations which will replace the UK Data Protection Act.
This may impact our ability to use and benefit from our stored data.
Specifically, restrictions or bans on profiling may impact our ability to identify the most appropriate products or solutions for our customers.
The Italian regulatory landscape is changing which could lead to greater regulatory intervention.
Strategic risk: business transformation and project delivery Having a detailed transformation plan The Group is carrying out initiatives to improve its operational efficiency Monitoring of the project milestones ensures as part of the implementation of its business transformation plan.
we remain on track and enables us to make adjustments where appropriate There is a strategic risk of the potential failure to execute the plan, or that the expected benefits of the plan may not be achieved on time or to the Ensuring that the projects are managed by extent targeted.
the right people with the ideal skills Using lessons learnt exercises to ensure There is also a large potential for upside risk should initiatives provide benefits later projects are improved by our experiences that are greater than those planned, or if the expected benefits are felt by the business sooner than planned.
Uncertainties include the potential changes in the market around use of PCWs, changes in customer behaviour and the increasing use of telematics.
Risks can emerge over the very long term as a result of significant changes in the environment including technology, weather patterns and socio-economic behaviours.
Examples of these risks would include driverless cars, new types of competitor entering the market and climate change.
A specific example of an emerging risk we have considered during 2013 is the failure of a competitor.
A competitor failing may lead to an industry levy which we would be subject to.
This risk could also impact our relationships with both investors and regulators, depending on the cause of the competitors failure.
There is also potential upside should the failure of a competitor enable us to increase the number of policies we issue.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
