Risk management and principal risks Risk management The Board is responsible for prudent oversight of the Groups oversight to ensure that measures are in place to provide business and financial operations, ensuring that they are independent and objective assurance on the e ective conducted in accordance with sound business principles identi cation and management of risk and on the e ectiveness and with applicable law and regulation.
This encompasses of the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
a responsibility to articulate and monitor adherence to In order to set boundaries to the acceptance of risk exposures, quanti able and measurable statements of the Boards the Board has set out the following Strategic Risk Objectives appetite for exposure to all risk types.
The Board also has that underpin our risk appetite and how the Group operates: Shareholders Earnings Our goal is to manage volatility within a cyclical market for our shareholders through targeted growth opportunities, continuous adaptation in our underwriting and a focus on expense management.
Customers Capital and Liquidity We ensure there are appropriate financial resources in place to deliver on our corporate and policyholder obligations.
Reputation Our brands represent our promise to our customers and are central to our continued success.
Conduct How we treat our customers is at the core of everything we do and, through our strategy, culture and service delivery, we aim to deliver fair outcomes for them.
Culture People Our people are what makes us a success and we aim to continue to invest in our employees and make the Group a rewarding place to work.
The Board has set a robust risk management strategy and Our strategic risk objectives are framework as an integral element in its pursuit of business objectives and in the ful lment of its obligations to all focused on delivering long-term stakeholders policyholders, shareholders, regulators, returns for our shareholders and customers and sta.
ensuring that our customers The Groups risk management framework is proportionate to the risks that we face and organised around the core elements have a positive experience of Risk Strategy and Appetite, Risk Governance, and the associated Risk Reporting.
with esure Group we see these The Groups risk management framework is dynamic and as complementary objectives.
continues to be enhanced and developed to ensure it meets the needs of the Group.
Darren Boland Chief Risk O cer esure Group Annual Report 2013 24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk Strategy and Appetite Risk reporting The Groups Risk Appetite incorporates a range of quantitative The risk management framework is designed to ensure that and qualitative measures of risk supporting our Strategic Risk the Risk Committee receive timely and appropriate reporting Objectives, against which the actual or planned exposures and on our exposure to existing and emerging risks in each of the uncertainties can be monitored.
This monitoring is re ected core risk categories insurance, market, counterparty credit, in regular reporting to the Executive Risk Committee and the operational, regulatory and liquidity.
Strategic risks and Board Risk Committee.
the reputational consequences of these risk exposures are considered within this risk reporting.
The Risk Appetite forms a fundamental part of the way we think about and assess risk, setting out the types and level of Such reporting is supported by: risk that we are looking to accept or avoid in the pursuit of our Updates to the Groups risk registers covering current and strategy.
These are considered within our strategic decisions emerging risks: and business planning but also form a critical element in the way that we think about risk within the Business.
This ensures Reports on events that have resulted in actual or potential that our sta understand how their day-to-day decisions financial or reputational losses to the Group or its customers: support the Risk Appetite and Strategic Risk Objectives and through our business risk dashboard.
This feedback loop The results of stress, scenario and sensitivity testing and the ensures that our Risk Appetite is cascaded and embedded findings, recommendations and management actions arising within the Group.
from reviews conducted by the compliance and internal audit functions.
Earnings Our Board and senior CRO Report management have con dence Capital and Liquidity in how we are embedding our Reputation strategic risk objectives.
Conduct People There is a clear linkage Strategic Risk between our Strategic Objectives Risk Objectives and our Risk Appetite.
Our strategic decisions and Business Plan Risk Appetite Strategic Decisions plans are aligned to and support our Risk Appetite.
The Risk Appetite is cascaded Business Risk Dashboard down to our Business units and their performance on a daily basis supports this.
Reportable Risk Register Risk and Key Risk Events and Emerging and Compliance Indicators Incident Risks Assessments Reviews Management esure Group Annual Report 2013 25 Risk management and principal risks continued A key strength of the Groups risk management strategy is the The Groups risk governance is underpinned by a risk integration of risk assessment and evaluation into the Groups management function headed by the Chief Risk O cer, a business planning and capital management processes.
member of the Executive team reporting to the CEO, but with independence assured through direct and independent Risk governance access to the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the The Board ensures that measures are in place to provide Risk Committee.
independent and objective assurance on the identi cation and The Risk Strategy, Appetite and framework are articulated in a management of risk and on the e ectiveness of the processes suite of policies covering material risks that we face.
Each of and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
To achieve this these policies is subject to annual review and approval.
objective, and in accordance with recognised good practice, the Group operates a three lines of defence governance framework.
This is set out below: Board and Board Board of Directors committees Strategy and oversight setting of and ensuring Risk Committee Audit Committee the adherence to the company risk strategy and independent risk oversight.
Executive Committees and Management Risk Management and Internal Audit Team Compliance Team outsourced to Mazars LLP Management Committees and Operational Teams 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Internal Audit Operational Business area Risk Management and Compliance Team Risk ownership and management Oversight, challenge, embed, educate Independent assurance Primary responsibility for the risks that and co-ordination of Risk and Independent, objective assurance on the we take in the pursuit of our business Compliance Activities internal control environment, focusing on objectives, and for due observance of Design, co-ordinate and embed a consistent the design and operating e ectiveness risk management practices, processes framework for taking risks and monitoring of the governance processes, risk and controls.
compliance, but without being directly management procedures, internal responsible for the assumption of exposure control and information systems.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 26 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risks The Directors consider that the material risks and uncertainties facing the Group are as follows: Insurance Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Underwriting risk from pricing If these changes, and the Groups general pricing The Group continues to monitor developments through strategy the risk of an strategy, are not managed correctly, it could result regular sensitivity testing of the key variables a ecting inappropriate pricing strategy could in an unintended change in the Groups risk pro le, loss performance, including loss ratios, risk mix, pricing, lead to business being written at market share and loss ratio.
quote conversion and renewal retention ratios, claims uneconomic rates and result in costs, claims frequency and the adequacy of reserves.
lower than expected pro tability.
Action regarding these risks is taken in an integrated This includes the risk of an inaccurate approach between the executive team, underwriting, pricing approach following the claims and risk management.
gender pricing changes, the LASPO Reforms and the rating There is strong and regular monitoring in place to and competitive landscape.
understand and react to the changing market rating environment, ensuring that we are well placed to bene t from these movements.
Risk Impact Mitigation and management Underwriting risk from claims An unplanned deterioration in the loss ratio, arising Loss ratio risk is managed through a robust claims costs the risk that a material from in ation in claims costs beyond planned and management process and regular monitoring and increase in claims costs could achievable increases in premiums.
sensitivity testing of the key variables a ecting loss negatively impact the Groups performance, including: risk mix, pricing relative to the financial performance.
This includes market, quote conversion and renewal retention ratios, risks arising from adverse claims claims costs, claims frequency and the adequacy litigation outcomes, increases in of reserves.
frequency of Periodic Payment Orders PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Risk Impact Mitigation and management Reserving risk the risk that Adverse development in prior year reserves resulting We have a prudent approach to reserving risk the insu cient funds have been set in deterioration of financial performance.
Groups actuarial function analyses and projects aside to settle and handle claims historical claims development data and uses a number as the amounts fall due.
of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, the Group also provides data to independent external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analyses, the Group also takes into account changes in risk pro le and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors including assumptions on PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Financial Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Financial risk the risk that The preparation of financial information requires The Group reviews financial estimates and underlying inaccurate financial estimates or management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis taking into account judgements, could misrepresent assumptions.
Actual results may di er from these changes in underwriting conditions, changes in our financial position and change estimates, which could impact key business decisions.
legislation or regulation, and market movements.
In addition, independent external actuaries assess the adequacy of the Groups technical provisions.
Ultimately, the oversight of the Groups financial estimates and judgements resides with the Audit Committee.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 27 Risk management and principal risks continued Market Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Market risk from investment Changes in UK interest rates or investment markets Our investment strategy does not expose the Group activity the risk that a negative impact the return on and market valuation of the to material currency risk or the risks arising from financial impact arises from holdings Groups investment portfolio.
Market risk is managed in interest rate, currency and through regular monitoring including the drivers equity products, all of which are of investment return and value at risk measures, exposed to general and speci c counterparty exposures and interest rate sensitivities.
Risk Impact Mitigation and management Default risk from investment Defaults from investment counterparties impact both The Group manages the level of investment counterparty the risk that an the income from, and market valuation of, the Groups counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits investment counterparty will not be investment portfolio.
on its exposure to a single counterparty or groups of able to pay amounts in full when counterparties, and on geographical counterparties due in accordance with the term of and geographical segments.
Such risks are subject to the contract, causing the Group to regular review within the Investment Committee.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had no direct exposure to peripheral Eurozone countries sovereign debt.
Counterparty Credit Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Credit risk from reinsurance Reinsurance counterparty defaults reduce the The creditworthiness of reinsurers is managed on an counterparty The largest protection provided through our prudent reinsurance annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior counterparty credit risk we are structure: this will have a direct impact on the to nalisation of any contract.
In addition, management exposed to relates to reinsurers: reinsurance asset and earnings in the year of default.
assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers by this risk arises if they are not able In addition, the reduction in the level of reinsurance reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies to pay amounts in full when due in due to the default may increase the volatility in and other publicly available information.
An analysis accordance with the terms of the earnings in subsequent years.
of reinsurers by Standard & Poors S&P and AM Best contract, causing the Group to ratings is produced and reviewed on a monthly basis.
Conduct Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Regulatory or legal intervention or There are a number of ongoing and future reviews The Group continues to monitor legal and regulatory changes the risk that other legal from the FCA regarding the general insurance retail developments in the UK and Europe, through our close or regulatory reforms impacting sector.
There is speci c focus on the sales and renewal relationship with our regulators and other o cial premium rates, ASR and claims costs process, incentives for sales sta and the sale of bodies e. g. FCA, PRA and the Competition Commission across the market, could negatively additional insurance products that complement the and the use of proactive risk management tools and impact the Groups financial position.
These reviews could have an processes to mitigate our exposure to regulatory risk.
impact on the revenue streams that we currently have There is continued focus on the evolution of additional in place or future revenue streams.
insurance products and how we sell these products The outcome of an investigation by the Competition with the customer in mind.
The roll out of the Just In Commission into certain aspects of the UK private Case product shows our innovation within this area.
Motor insurance market, may lead to market reforms that a ect the way the Group sells or prices Motor insurance products or manages the payment or receipt of fees generated from the appointment of service providers used during the claims process.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 28 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Liquidity Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Liquidity risk the risk that the A reduction in liquidity could have an impact on The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by Group, although solvent, does not our ability to meet our financial commitments as considering the Groups operating cash ows: stressed have available su cient financial they fall due or restrict our ability to pay dividends for catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity resources to enable it to meet its to shareholders.
strains and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
obligations as they fall due or can In addition, the Group considers the matching of the only secure them at excessive cost.
Investment Portfolio with its insurance liabilities to mitigate and manage this risk.
In addition to monitoring cash ows, the matching of the duration of assets and liabilities is also monitored within the Investment Committee.
Oversight of the Groups investment strategy and the associated liquidity risk is undertaken by the Investment Committee.
Operational Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Financial crime the risk that Increased exposure to actual or attempted financial A range of preventative, monitoring and detective there is an increase in losses crime activity could result in financial loss, reputational controls are in place to combat such fraudulent activity through crime.
at the key points of entry policy inception and claims.
The monitoring and mitigation of financial crime is managed by the Groups financial crime team supported by the rest of the Business.
Risk Impact Mitigation and management Data Security the risk of This could have a detrimental impact on our customers The Group has robust systems in place to mitigate compromise to the integrity, or sta, on the reputation of the Group, or on our such risks, including: perimeter rewalls and intrusion con dentiality or availability pro tability and share price.
There is also the potential detection systems, anti-virus protection, laptop of customer or sta personal for regulatory intervention or fines resulting from such encryption, logical and physical access restrictions, information, or of commercially a compromise.
rigorous vetting of new and existing sta and a clear sensitive information.
These controls are rigorously enforced within the Group.
Risk Mitigation and management Impact Systems failure the risk that the The Group has systems monitoring and incidence The failure or degradation of our key platforms current systems fail to deliver the management processes in place to mitigate this risk.
including websites from which the majority of new expected performance.
A key element to the prevention of this risk is a robust business is sourced, compromise of corporate data change management programme which is subject or, in particular, the personal data with which we are to rigorous project management disciplines from entrusted and material performance failures by key programme development through to deployment.
The Group has a Reportable Events process which reports and manages any systems failure, which is reported to the Board Risk Committee.
