Risk Change Description Mitigations in 2013 Economic environment Economic Continued uncertainty in the global Close monitoring of lead indicators in the housing recession economy and particularly the Euro market, notably visitors to sales outlets, sales rates reducing area adversely affects consumer and ASP.
consumer confidence and demand for new Managing build rates against sales activity.
demand homes, with consequential impact Maintaining a rigorous approach to land acquisition, t on revenues, profits and potentially with spend focused in the south of England, where the asset carrying values.
economy is expected to remain more robust.
A cautious gearing position with a conservatively structured balance sheet is retained.
Political environment Changes in Changes to Government policies, Proactive engagement with Government, both directly Government which affect demand ranging from and through industry bodies, primarily the HBF.
policy towards policies indirectly affecting consumer See mitigations above for demand issues.
the housing confidence such as taxation levels market affecting to direct policies such as Help to supply or Buy, may affect demand, and thus demand revenues, profits and potentially s asset carrying values.
Proactive engagement with Government, both directly Additionally changes to Government and through industry bodies, primarily the HBF.
policies which affect supply, Maintenance of land bank of at least 4 years to mitigate particularly planning, may have an against short term changes.
impact on the Groups ability to prosecute its growth strategy.
Mortgage finance Limited The availability of mortgage finance, Investing in land more suited to traditional homes, with mortgage particularly deposit requirements reduced focus on the first time buyer.
availability for first time buyers, is fundamental Providing a range of purchase assistance schemes to to new home t to customer demand.
buyers restrictions on mortgages granted Continually innovating to find additional ways to assist could reduce demand for homes and customers to purchase a home.
Land procurement Insufficient Expansion of the business and Clearly defined strategy and geographical focus.
investment in the delivery of the Groups strategy Rigorous due diligence for land acquisition to preserve land to support to improve shareholder returns defined hurdle rates.
business strategy from the development of land is Regular review of the pipeline of new land purchases.
curtailed, with existing activity levels Investment in procurement and promotion of strategic compromised.
Maintaining larger land bank to deal with periods of reduced investment.
30 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our performance Risks and uncertainties | Strategic report Our performance The availability of mortgage finance and customer deposit requirements are the key issues currently facing the Group Risk Change Description Mitigations in 2013 Materials and subcontract labour Inability to Increasing competition with growing Maintain clear visibility of future production requirements and source adequate industry build volumes may lead its impact on suppliers and subcontractors.
materials and to shortages of both materials and Maintain close relationships with key suppliers and subcontract subcontract labour, which may subcontractors to gain visibility of future supply against need.
s labour at the constrain the Groups ability to build right cost and may impact profitability if costs for both rise.
People An inability to The loss of key staff or the failure to A reward system that motivates achievement of performance attract, develop attract, develop and retain suitable targets.
or retain good talent may inhibit the Groups ability s Development programmes individually tailored for our people to achieve its strategy.
Health, safety and environment Unsafe A loss of trust in the ability of Bovis A consultative committee reviews performance and regulatory practices in our Homes to build homes safely and requirements for health, safety and environmental matters.
construction in an environmentally responsible Monitoring health, safety and environmental performance activities way.
Affecting the reputation and against a standard of excellence.
causing injury financial health of the business.
A requirement for regular training for all staff and site or death to our based personnel.
stakeholders and damage to communities Planning and regulations Changes in Increased costs and significant delays Land acquisition costs appropriately reflect latest and impending legislation in production.
building regulations that cannot be mitigated.
and industry Close monitoring of changes in planning policy by experienced regulations team.
New building techniques and advances continue to be investigated, in response to the Code for Sustainable Homes.
As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks on which it is focused change.
For instance, as the Group has acquired land successfully, the operational risk shifts to the progression of these sites into the build and sales phase, with the challenges of gaining detailed planning and of operationally gearing up the Group to increase build and sales activity.
With sales conditions improving, risks move to our people and the stresses within the supply chain.
Strategic report approval The strategic report outlined on pages 2 to 31, incorporates the financial highlights, the chairmans statement, the strategic review, the chief executives review, the financial review and the risks and uncertainties review.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Hill Group Finance Director 21 February 2014 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 31
