ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 11 Managing principal risks and uncertainties The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C has a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key stakeholders.
individual area meets regularly normally monthly to ensure an Effective execution of strategy appropriate level of oversight is applied to investment performance Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the successful and risk.
A key role of the heads of F&Cs investment functions is to formulation, articulation and execution of its strategy and the ability monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment to adapt to changes in the business environment to ensure it professionals.
Where it is considered necessary, actions are taken to remains competitive.
Growth in Third-Party Institutional and change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile Consumer AUM and, more critically, revenues, is key to the performance.
Poor execution may lead to a lack of growth and competitiveness as well as reduced profitability.
Loss of key employees Mitigation The Group has the articulated objective of achieving Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its competitive scale in areas of strategic focus through consistent employees in key areas including investment, distribution, marketing investment in products, channels and human resources.
The Group and product development.
Over the last two years, the Group has has sought to ensure that its product development, distribution and rationalised its business and headcount in line with its strategic investment processes are aligned, positioning it to deliver a goals and ambitions.
The loss of key employees may prevent the competitive product offering in areas of key focus.
Clearly-defined Group from winning new business or meeting its strategic goals, distribution targets allow management to monitor progress in AUM and may lead to client outflows and the loss of key mandates.
Mitigation The Groups compensation model targets the retention Uncertain economic outlook of key employees.
All employees receive an annual appraisal which reviews their performance against clearly-defined objectives with the Key Risk The UK and global macroeconomic outlook remains aim of encouraging strong performance.
Reliance on key individuals uncertain.
Client investment preferences, and the Groups AUM and is mitigated by the Groups team-based approach to investment revenues, may be impacted by underlying economic and market management.
Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key conditions.
In addition, a substantial proportion of the Groups staff through the recruitment of suitably-skilled individuals and by revenues are denominated in Euros.
Adverse market conditions in ensuring succession plans are in place for senior roles to provide one or more asset classes or changes in economic factors may lead emergency or immediate coverage.
to a reduction in AUM and or revenues.
In addition, actual or perceived changes in market or economic outlook may lead clients Breach of client or portfolio limits to alter their allocations to particular products or asset classes.
Key Risk Many of the Groups investment mandates include Mitigation The Group offers competitive products across a wide specific limits, restrictions and or exclusions on the construction or range of asset classes, including equity, fixed income, property and content of portfolios agreed with the client.
In addition, certain multi-asset, limiting its exposure to the impact of market volatility in pooled fund products may be subject to specific regulatory or fiscal any one market or asset class.
Further, a number of the Groups limits, restrictions and or exclusions.
Any breach of client mandate investment-solutions products are much longer term in nature, and may render the Group liable to pay financial compensation.
their performance and marketability is less impacted by short-term Mitigation A Group-wide database is utilised to record all market volatility.
The Board periodically considers hedging the mandate-related rules.
Fund managers provide the Groups first line Groups Euro-denominated cashflows.
of defence in ensuring that funds are managed within mandate.
In addition, the risk team conducts a regular review of mandate Investment performance compliance.
Key Risk The delivery of strong investment performance depends upon the successful management of client portfolios against targets, Regulation benchmarks and or peer groups.
Failure to meet these objectives Key Risk The UK, European and global regulatory environments could lead to outflows, may impact the Groups ability to win new are evolving rapidly.
The expectations of financial regulators are mandates or assets and may potentially expose the Group to changing and regulated groups must embed regulatory compliance greater risk of mandate or regulatory breach.
in their business models to an even greater extent than previously Mitigation Fund managers are responsible for interpreting and required.
Regulation has become, in many areas, more complex and effectively managing performance and risk associated with onerous, and regulated entities are faced with shorter timelines to investment ideas strategies.
The Group operates an independent interpret and implement new regulation.
There is substantial Investment Risk Oversight team which monitors and challenges complexity from overlapping regulatory directives.
Regulatory risks within client portfolios and provides appropriate management change may lead to consolidation in the marketplace, the launch of information.
A Performance and Risk Review Committee for each new products, withdrawal or commoditisation of existing products 12 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Managing principal risks and uncertainties and increased reliance on specialist third-party service providers as arrangements.
The Group led this process using an internal project asset managers increasingly focus on core activities of investment team, supported by external legal and consultancy advisors.
Since management, client servicing and distribution.
the implementation of the contracts, the Group has established a Supplier and Change Management team to oversee and monitor Mitigation The Group Compliance team ensures that key third-party service delivery and ensure there is appropriate oversight regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity.
Their and effective resolution of issues.
Arrangements are in place to impact is then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper ensure that both State Street and IFDS are incentivised to provide application and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all the level of service that is required.
The Supplier and Change relevant business areas.
Related business change is supervised Management team holds regular service review meetings with State through the Groups change management process and oversight Street and IFDS as part of the ongoing governance arrangements.
provided through the Group Management Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee.
Business continuity and information technology Key Risk The Groups success is dependent on access to a robust Loss of key clients IT infrastructure and appropriate IT systems.
The Group is exposed Key Risk The Groups revenues are derived from the assets it to the risk that its infrastructure and systems are unable to meet the manages and the relationships it has with its clients.
Historically, the demands of client, regulatory and or technology change.
Group derived a significant portion of its revenues from a small group of Strategic Partner clients, with whom it had long-term Mitigation The Group has a short and medium-term IT plan with contractual relationships.
These long-term relationships have either clear objectives to meet mandatory change requirements, deliver reached, or are shortly due to reach, maturity and there is an further integration of systems and enhance the agility of the Group.
ongoing risk that these clients either withdraw significant AUM or The Group maintains and periodically tests its business continuity terminate their relationship.
Mitigation The Group acknowledges the revenue contribution Counterparty credit exposure made by its Strategic Partner clients, and will seek to retain these Key Risk The Group is exposed to credit risk and the risk of failure relationships where it is viable and economically appropriate to do in respect of counterparties used to hold corporate cash on deposit.
so: our focus is on investment performance, strong relationship Mitigation The Group adopts a low-risk approach to treasury management and understanding the evolving needs and management in respect of its capital.
The treasury policy permits expectations of these clients to maximise asset retention.
However, placement of Group capital only with approved counterparties and the Groups strategy recognises the concentration risk to these sets out quantum and duration limits.
The Group Counterparty clients and seeks to mitigate it through the growth of third-party Credit Committee meets on a regular basis normally monthly to Consumer and Institutional revenues and the identification of ensure an appropriate level of oversight is applied to counterparty potential further cost reductions which may be implemented in the credit risk and to set and review appropriate counterparties and event of Strategic Partner revenue loss.
Reliance on third parties Scottish independence referendum Key Risk In pursuing a strategy with a focus on competitive scale, Key risk The Groups ultimate holding company is a Scottishthe use of outsourced service providers benefits the Group by registered company and a number of subsidiary companies and providing cost-effective access to an industry-competitive clients are registered in Scotland.
The impending Scottish operating platform.
The Groups key outsource partners are State Referendum creates a level of uncertainty and its outcome may have Street Corporation State Street and International Financial Data adverse financial or other consequences for the Group.
State Street provides a range of back and middle office, fund accounting and transfer agency services and IFDS Mitigation The Group considers that, should the vote be in favour provides an administrative service for certain Retail and Investment of independence, there will be a transitional period during which Trust savings products.
there will be an opportunity to assess the new situation and take any appropriate action.
Mitigation The Group conducted an extensive selection and due diligence exercise prior to selecting State Street and IFDS as outsource providers and entering into the related contractual
