Strategic report Prices and markets BPs financial performance is subject to the uctuating prices of crude oil and gas, the volatile prices of rened Risk factors products and the profitability of our rening and petrochemicals operations, as well as exchange rate uctuations and the general macroeconomic outlook.
We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
The potential Oil, gas and product prices and margins can be very volatile, and are subject impact of the occurrence, or recurrence, of any of the risks described to international supply and demand.
Political developments including below could have a material adverse effect on BPs business, financial conict situations, increased supply from the development of new oil and position, results of operations, competitive position, cash ows, prospects, gas sources, technological change, global economic conditions and the liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, inuence of OPEC can particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price increases have resulted in increased scal take, cost The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic and ination and more onerous terms for access to resources.
As a result, commercial: compliance and control: and safety and operational.
In increased oil prices may not improve margin performance.
Decreases in oil, addition, we have set out one separate risk for your attention the risk gas or product prices are likely to have an adverse effect on revenues, resulting from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
margins and profitability, and a material rapid change, or a sustained change, in oil, gas or product prices may mean investment or other Gulf of Mexico oil spill decisions need to be reviewed, assets may be impaired, and the viability of projects may be affected.
A prolonged period of low oil prices may impact The spill has had and could continue to have a material adverse impact our cash ow, profit and ability to maintain our long-term investment on BP.
programme with a consequent effect on our growth rate, and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, or share price.
There is significant uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of the remaining costs and liabilities relating to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill Rening profitability can be volatile, with both periodic over-supply and the Incident, the impact of the Incident on our reputation and the resulting supply tightness in various regional markets, coupled with uctuations in possible impact on our licence to operate including our ability to access demand.
Sectors of the petrochemicals industry are also subject to new opportunities.
The amount of claims, fines and penalties that become uctuations in supply and demand, with a consequent effect on prices and payable by BP including as a result of any potential determination of BPs profitability.
negligence or gross negligence, the outcome of litigation, the terms of any Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of rened further settlements including the amount and timing of any payments products may be in a variety of currencies.
In addition, a high proportion of thereunder, and any costs arising from any longer-term environmental our major project development costs are denominated in local currencies, consequences of the Incident, will also impact upon the ultimate cost for which may be subject to volatile uctuations against the US dollar.
These uncertainties are likely to continue for a significant period and Fluctuations in exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange may cause our costs to increase materially.
Thus, the Incident has had, and exposures, with a consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
could continue to have, a material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, financial performance, cash ows, prospects, Periods of global recession or prolonged instability in financial markets liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, could negatively impact parties with whom we do or may do business, the particularly in the US.
The risks associated with the Incident could also demand for our products and the prices at which they can be sold and heighten the impact of the other risks to which the group is exposed as could affect the viability of the markets in which we operate.
See, in particular, Access and renewal: Liquidity, Climate change and carbon pricing climate change and carbon pricing financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure: Insurance: US policies could result in higher costs and reduction in future revenue and government settlements and debarment: Regulatory: Liabilities and strategic growth opportunities.
provisions: Reporting: and Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks below.
Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes, Strategic and commercial risks reduced profitability from changes in operating costs, potential restrictions on the commercial viability of, or our ability to progress, upstream Access and renewal BPs future hydrocarbon production depends on resources and reserves, and impacts on revenue generation and strategic our ability to renew and reposition our portfolio.
Increasing competition for growth opportunities.
In addition, the changed nature of our participation in access to investment opportunities and the effects of the Incident on our alternative energies could carry reputational, economic and technology reputation and cash ows could result in decreased access to risks.
Geopolitical the diverse nature of our operations around the world Successful execution of our group strategy depends on implementing exposes us to a wide range of political developments and consequent activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The challenges to renewal changes to the operating environment, regulatory environment and law.
of our upstream portfolio are growing due to increasing competition for access to opportunities globally among both national and international oil We have operations, and are seeking new opportunities, in countries and companies, and heightened political and economic risks in certain regions where political, economic and social transition is taking place.
countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located.
Lack of Some countries have experienced, or may experience in the future, material positions could impact our future hydrocarbon production.
political instability, changes to the regulatory environment, changes in taxation, expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts Moreover, the Incident has affected BPs reputation, which may have a of terrorism, acts of war and insurrections.
Any of these conditions long-term impact on the groups ability to access new opportunities, both occurring could disrupt or terminate our operations, causing our in the US and elsewhere.
Adverse public, political, regulatory and industry development activities to be curtailed or terminated in these areas, or our sentiment towards BP, and towards oil and gas drilling activities generally, production to decline, could limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, could damage or impair our existing commercial relationships with could affect the recoverability of our assets and could cause us to incur counterparties, partners and host governments and could impair our additional costs.
See page 4 for information on the locations of our major access to new investment opportunities, exploration properties, areas of operation and activities.
operatorships or other essential commercial arrangements with potential We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire to partners and host governments, particularly in the US.
In addition, costs and liabilities relating to the Incident have placed, and will continue to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services we provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the place, a significant burden on our cash ow, which could impede our ability to invest in new opportunities and deliver long-term growth.
economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate or that we have not satisfactorily addressed all relevant stakeholder concerns BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 51 in respect of our operations, our reputation and shareholder value could be Rosneft investment any future erosion of our relationship with Rosneft damaged and development opportunities may be precluded.
could adversely impact our business, strategic objectives, the level of our reserves and our reputation.
Competition BPs group strategy depends upon continuous innovation and efficiency in a highly competitive market.
On 21 March 2013, we completed the sale of our 50% interest in TNK-BP to Rosneft and the purchase of additional shares in Rosneft.
We now own The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There is a total shareholding in Rosneft of 19.75%.
To the extent we fail to maintain strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other a good commercial relationship with Rosneft in the future, or to the extent industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the that as a non-controlling shareholder in Rosneft we are unable in the future home.
Competition puts pressure on the terms of access to new to exercise significant inuence over our investment in Rosneft or other opportunities, licence costs and product prices, affects oil products growth opportunities in Russia, our business and strategic objectives in marketing and requires continuous management focus on improving Russia and our ability to recognize our share of Rosnefts reserves may be efficiency, while ensuring safety and operational risk is not compromised.
The implementation of group strategy requires continued technological advances and innovation including advances in exploration, production, Investment efficiency poor investment decisions could negatively rening, petrochemicals manufacturing technology and advances in impact our business.
technology related to energy usage.
Our performance could be impeded Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options if competitors developed or acquired intellectual property rights to and investing in the best options.
Ineffective group strategy, investment technology that we require, if our innovation lagged the industry, or if selection and or subsequent execution could lead to loss of opportunity, we fail to adequately protect our company brands and trade marks.
loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
Our competitive position in comparison to our peers could be adversely Reserves progression inability to progress upstream resources in a affected if competitors offer superior terms for access rights or licences, timely manner could adversely affect our long-term replacement of if we fail to control our operating costs or manage our margins, or if we fail reserves and negatively impact our business.
to sustain, develop and operate efficiently a high quality portfolio of assets.
Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on sustaining Joint and other contractual arrangements BP may not have full long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not progressed operational control and may have exposure to counterparty credit risk and in a timely and efficient manner due to commercial, technical, regulatory or disruptions to our operations and strategic objectives due to the nature of other reasons, we will be unable to sustain long-term replacement of some of its business relationships.
Many of our major projects and operations are conducted through joint Major project delivery our group plan depends upon successful arrangements or associates and through contracting and sub-contracting delivery of major projects, and failure to deliver major projects successfully arrangements.
These arrangements often involve complex risk allocation, could adversely affect our financial performance.
decision-making processes and indemnification arrangements, and BP has less control of such activities than we would have if BP had full ownership Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing and operational control.
Our partners may have economic or business the activities to deliver major projects over the plan period.
Poor delivery of interests or objectives that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of or operational challenges at any major project that underpins production or BP and may exercise veto rights to block certain key decisions or actions production growth and or any other major programme designed to that BP believes are in its or the joint arrangements or associates best enhance shareholder value, including maintenance turnaround interests, or approve such matters without our consent.
Additionally, our programmes, could adversely affect our financial performance and our joint arrangement partners or associates or contractual counterparties are operating cash ows.
primarily responsible for the adequacy of the human or technical Digital infrastructure a breach of our digital security or a failure of our competencies and capabilities which they bring to bear on the joint project digital infrastructure could result in serious damage to business operations, and, in the event these are found to be lacking, then safety, the personal injury, damage to assets, harm to the environment, reputational performance of the project and BPs costs may be adversely affected.
Our damage, breaches of regulations, litigation, legal liabilities and reparation joint arrangement partners or associates may not be able to meet their costs.
financial or other obligations to their counterparties or to the relevant project, potentially threatening the viability of such projects.
Furthermore, The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to should accidents or incidents occur in operations in which BP participates, maintaining the availability of our business applications, including the whether as operator or otherwise, and where it is held that our subreliable operation of technology in our various business operations and the contractors or joint arrangement partners are legally liable to share any collection and processing of financial and operational data, as well as the aspects of the cost of responding to such incidents, the financial capacity condentiality of certain third-party information.
A breach of our digital of these third parties may prove inadequate to fully indemnify BP against security or failure of our digital infrastructure, due to intentional actions the costs we incur on behalf of the joint or contractual arrangement.
such as cyber-attacks, negligence or otherwise, could cause serious Should a key sub-contractor, such as a lessor of drilling rigs, no longer be damage to business operations and, in some circumstances, could result in able to make these assets available to BP, this could result in serious the loss of data or sensitive information, injury to people, loss of control of disruption to our operations.
Where BP does not have operational control or damage to assets, harm to the environment, reputational damage, of a venture, BP may nonetheless still be pursued by regulators or breaches of regulations, litigation, legal liabilities and reparation costs.
claimants in the event of an incident.
Crisis management, business continuity and disaster recovery the group must be able to respond to and recover quickly and effectively from any disruption or incident, as failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operations.
Crisis management and contingency plans are required to respond to, and to continue or recover operations following, a disruption or an incident.
If we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to either an external or internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely disrupted.
Inability to restore or replace critical capacity to an agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong the impact of any disruption and could severely affect our business and operations.
52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report People and capability successful recruitment, development and Insurance The limited capacity of the insurance market and BPs utilization of staff is central to our plans.
insurance strategy could, from time to time, expose the group to material uninsured losses which could have a material adverse effect on BPs Successful recruitment of new staff, employee training, development and financial condition and results of operations.
continuing enhancement of skills, in particular technical capabilities such as petroleum engineers and scientists, are key to implementing our plans.
In the context of the limited capacity of the insurance market, many Inability to develop and retain human capacity and capability, both across significant risks are retained by BP.
The group generally restricts its the organization and in specic operating locations, could jeopardize purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or performance delivery.
The group relies on recruiting and retaining contractual reasons.
This means that the group could be exposed to high-quality employees to execute its strategic plans and to operate its material uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on business.
its financial condition and results of operations.
In particular, these uninsured costs could arise at a time when BP is facing material costs In addition, significant board and management focus continues to be arising out of some other event which could put pressure on BPs liquidity required in responding to matters related to the Incident.
Although BP set and cash ows.
For example, BP has borne and may continue to bear the up the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization to manage the groups entire burden of its share of any property damage, well control, pollution long-term response, other key management personnel will need to clean-up and third-party liability expenses arising out of the Incident.
continue to devote substantial attention to addressing the associated consequences for the group, which may negatively impact our staffs Compliance and control risks capability to address and respond to other operational matters affecting the group but unrelated to the Incident.
US government settlements and debarment our settlement with the US Department of Justice and the SEC in respect of certain charges Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure related to the Incident may expose us to further penalties, liabilities and failure to operate within our financial framework could impact our ability private litigation, and may impact our operations and adversely affect our to operate and result in financial loss.
ability to quickly and efficiently access US capital markets.
The group seeks to maintain a financial framework to ensure that it is able On 15 November 2012, BP reached an agreement with the US government to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity, and to resolve all federal criminal and securities claims arising out of the commercial credit risk is measured and controlled to determine the groups Incident and comprising settlements with the US Department of Justice total credit risk.
Failure to accurately forecast, manage or maintain DoJ and the SEC.
For a description of the terms of the DoJ and SEC sufficient liquidity and credit to meet our needs including a failure to settlements, see Legal proceedings on page 264.
Under the DoJ understand and respond to potential liabilities could impact our ability to settlement, BP has agreed to retain an independent third-party auditor who operate and result in a financial loss.
Trade and other receivables, including will review and report to the probation officer, the DoJ, and BP regarding overdue receivables, may not be recovered whether an impairment BP Exploration & Productions BPXP compliance with the key terms of provision has been recognized or not.
Inability to determine adequately our the settlement including the completion of safety and environmental credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
Furthermore, a substantial and management systems audits, operational oversight enhancements, oil spill unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt our financial response training and drills and the implementation of best practices.
The framework or overwhelm our capacity to meet our obligations.
DoJ settlement also provides for the appointment of an ethics monitor and External events could materially impact the effectiveness of the groups a process safety monitor.
See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on page 39.
A credit crisis or significant economic shock affecting criminal and SEC settlements impose significant compliance and remedial banks and other sectors of the economy could impact the ability of obligations on BP and its directors, ofcers and employees.
Failure to counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the group.
It could also comply with the terms of these settlements could result in further affect our ability to raise capital to fund growth, to maintain our long-term enforcement action by the DoJ and the SEC, expose BP to severe investment programme and to meet our obligations, and may impact penalties, financial or otherwise, and subject BP to further private litigation, shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, or share each of which could impact our operations and have a material adverse price.
Decreases in the funded levels of our pension plans may also effect on the groups business.
increase our pension funding requirements.
The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA has temporarily In addition, a significant operational incident could result in decreases in suspended a number of BP entities from participating in new federal our credit ratings which, together with the assessments published by contracts and subjected BPXP to mandatory debarment at its Houston analysts, the reputational consequences of any such incident and concerns headquarters.
In addition, the EPA has initiated administrative proceedings about the groups costs arising from any such incident, ongoing to convert the temporary suspension of these BP entities into discretionary contingencies, liquidity, financial performance and credit spreads, could debarment.
On 26 November 2013, the EPA issued a Notice of Continued increase the groups nancing costs and limit the groups access to Suspensions and Proposed Debarments that continued the suspensions of nancing.
The groups ability to engage in both its trading activities and the previously suspended BP entities, suspended two new BP entities non-trading businesses could also be impacted in such circumstances due BP Alternative Energy and BP Pipelines Alaska Inc., and proposed to counterparty concerns about the groups financial and business risk discretionary debarment of all suspended BP entities.
Both temporary prole and resulting collateral demands, which could be significant.
In suspension and mandatory debarment prevent a company from entering addition, BP may be unable to make a drawdown under certain of its into new contracts or new leases with the US government that would be committed borrowing facilities in the event that we are aware that there performed at the facility where a Clean Water Act violation occurred.
See are pending or threatened legal, arbitration or administrative proceedings Legal proceedings on page 264.
BP has a significant amount of operations which, if determined adversely, might reasonably be expected to have a in the US.
See Upstream on page 25 and Oil and gas disclosures for the material adverse effect on our ability to meet the payment obligations group on page 245.
Prolonged suspension or debarment from entering under any of these facilities.
Credit rating downgrades could trigger a new federal contracts, or further suspension or debarment proceedings in requirement for the company to review its funding arrangements with the the future against BP and or its subsidiaries as a result of violations of the BP pension trustees.
Any extended constraints on the groups ability to terms of the DoJ or SEC settlements or otherwise, could have a material obtain nancing and to engage in its trading activities on acceptable terms adverse impact on the groups operations in the US in the future.
In or at all would put pressure on the groups liquidity.
If such constraints particular, prolonged suspension or debarment could prevent BP from occur at a time when cash ows from our business operations are accessing and developing material new oil and gas resources located in the constrained, such as following a significant operational incident, the group US, or prevent BP from engaging in certain development arrangements could be required to reduce planned capital expenditures and or increase with third parties that are standard in the oil and gas industry, which could asset disposals in order to provide additional liquidity, as the group did make the development of certain of BPs existing reserves located in the following the Incident.
US less commercially attractive than if relevant BP entities were not suspended or debarred.
See Financial statements Note 19 for more information on financial instruments and financial risk factors.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 53 As a result of the SEC settlement, as of 5 February 2013 and for a period of Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or three years thereafter, we are no longer qualied as a well known breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could be seasoned issuer WKSI as dened in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
1933, as amended Securities Act, and therefore will not be able to take Incidents of ethical misconduct, non-compliance with the advantage of the benets available to a WKSI, including engaging in recommendations of the ethics monitor appointed under the terms of the delayed or continuous offerings of securities using an automatic shelf DoJ settlement or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, registration statement.
In addition, as of the SEC settlement date of including anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-manipulation laws and trade 10 December 2012 and for a period of five years thereafter, we are no or other sanctions, could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder longer able to utilize certain registration exemptions provided by the value and could subject us to litigation and regulatory action or penalties Securities Act in connection with certain securities offerings.
We also may under the terms of the DoJ settlement or otherwise.
Multiple events of be denied certain trading authorizations under the rules of the US non-compliance could call into question the integrity of our operations.
Commodities Futures Trading Commission, which may prevent us in the For example, in our trading functions, there is the risk that a determined future from entering certain routine swap transactions for an indefinite individual could operate as a rogue trader, acting outside BPs period of time.
delegations, controls or code of conduct and in contravention of our values Regulatory BP, and the oil industry in general, face increased regulation in pursuit of personal objectives that could be to the detriment of BP and in the US and elsewhere that could increase the cost of regulatory its shareholders.
compliance, affect the adequacy of our provisions and limit our access to For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal proceedings new exploration properties.
For further information on the risks involved in BPs trading The oil industry in general is subject to regulation and intervention by activities, see Treasury and trading activities below.
governments throughout the world in such matters as the award of Liabilities and provisions BPs potential liabilities resulting from exploration and production interests, the imposition of specic drilling pending and future claims, lawsuits, settlements and enforcement actions obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, controls over the relating to the Incident, together with the potential cost and burdens of development and decommissioning of a eld including restrictions on implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, have had and production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or are expected to continue to have a material adverse impact on the groups non-renewal of contract rights.
The oil industry is also subject to the business.
payment of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high compared with Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90, BP Exploration & Production those payable in respect of other commercial activities, and operates in Inc. and BP Corporation North America are among the parties nancially certain tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty relating to the responsible for the clean-up of the Incident and for certain economic interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
We remain exposed to changes damages as provided for in OPA 90, as well as certain natural resource in the regulatory and legislative environment, such as new laws and damages associated with the spill and certain costs determined by federal regulations whether imposed by international treaty or by national or local and state trustees engaged in a joint assessment of such natural resource governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in tax or damages.
BP and certain of its subsidiaries have also been named as royalty regimes, price controls, the imposition of trade or other sanctions, defendants in numerous lawsuits in the US arising out of the Incident, government actions to cancel or renegotiate contracts or other factors.
including actions for personal injury and wrongful death, purported class Governments are facing greater pressure on public nances, which may actions for commercial or economic injury, actions for breach of contract, increase their motivation to intervene in the scal and regulatory violations of statutes, property and other environmental damage, securities frameworks of the oil and gas industry and we remain exposed to law claims and various other claims, and additional lawsuits or private increases in amounts payable to governments or government agencies.
claims arising out of the Incident may be brought in the future.
Such factors could reduce our profitability from operations in certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new access, require us to divest or While significant charges have been recognized in the income statement write-down certain assets or curtail or cease certain operations, or affect since the Incident occurred in 2010, the provisions recognized represent the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, environmental and legal only the current best estimates of expenditures required to settle certain liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation could present obligations that can be reasonably estimated at the end of the also impact funding requirements of the group.
reporting period, and there are future expenditures for which it is not possible to measure our obligations reliably.
BPs total potential liabilities Due to the Incident and remedial provisions contained in or that may result resulting from pending and future claims, lawsuits, settlements and from the DoJ and SEC settlements and other past events in the US, it is enforcement actions relating to the Incident including as a result of any likely that there will be additional oversight and more stringent regulation of potential determination of BPs negligence or gross negligence, together BPs oil and gas activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to with the potential cost and burdens of implementing remedies sought in environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of drilling the various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time and are operations, as well as access to new drilling areas.
BP may be subjected to subject to significant uncertainty but they have had, and are expected to a higher number of citations and or level of fines imposed in relation to any continue to have, a material adverse impact on the groups business.
alleged breaches of safety or environmental regulations.
New regulations and legislation, the terms of BPs settlements with US government See Financial statements Note 2 and Legal proceedings on page 257. authorities and future settlements or litigation outcomes related to the Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory Incident, and or evolving practices could increase the cost of compliance, action, legal liability and reputational damage.
require changes to our drilling operations, exploration, development and decommissioning plans, impact our ability to capitalize on our assets and External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the limit our access to new exploration properties or operatorships, particularly integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
compliance with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products in certain regulated commodity markets.
Failure to respond to changes in or to comply with trading As of the date of the SEC settlement, 10 December 2012, and for a period regulations could result in regulatory action and damage to our reputation.
of three years thereafter, we are unable to rely on the safe harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements provided by the See page 254 for more information on environmental regulation.
regulations issued under the Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Our inability to rely on these safe harbor provisions may expose us to future litigation and liabilities in connection with forward-looking statements in our public disclosures.
54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report Treasury and trading activities control of these activities depends on Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm to our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of transactions.
people and disrupt our operations.
Failure to do this effectively could lead to business disruption, financial Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism, loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
piracy, sabotage, cyber-attacks and similar activities directed against our In the normal course of business, we are subject to operational risk around operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or computer systems our treasury and trading activities.
Control of these activities is highly could cause harm to people and could severely disrupt business and dependent on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number operations.
Our business activities could also be severely disrupted by, of complex transactions across many markets and currencies.
among other things, conict, civil strife or political unrest in areas where Shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, we operate.
internal control processes or people could lead to disruption of our Product quality failure to meet product quality standards could lead to business, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
See Legal proceedings on page 257.
Supplying customers with on-specication products is critical to maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
Safety and operational risks Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain could The risks inherent in our operations include a number of hazards that, lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
although many may have a low probability of occurrence, can have Drilling and production these activities require high levels of extremely serious consequences if they do occur, such as the Gulf of investment and are subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties.
The occurrence of any such risks could have a consequent Activities in challenging environments heighten many of the drilling and material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, production risks including those of integrity failures, which could lead to cash ows, results of operations, financial position, prospects, liquidity, curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, or inadequate shareholder returns and or implementation of the groups strategic goals.
Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks the nature Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are of our operations exposes us to a wide range of significant health, safety, subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating security and environmental risks, the occurrence of which could result in to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas eld.
Our exploration regulatory action, legal liability and increased costs and damage to our and production activities are often conducted in extremely challenging reputation.
environments, which heighten the risks of technical integrity failure and The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of natural disasters discussed above.
The cost of drilling, completing or significant health, safety, security and environmental risks.
The scope of operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or these risks is inuenced by the geographic range, operational diversity and cancel drilling operations because of a variety of factors, including technical complexity of our activities.
In addition, in many of our major unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological projects and operations, risk allocation and management is shared with formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions third parties such as contractors, sub-contractors, joint arrangement and compliance with governmental requirements.
In addition, exploration partners and associates.
See Strategic and commercial risks Joint and expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the case of other contractual arrangements above.
unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to develop.
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill illustrates the risks we face in our drilling and There are risks of technical integrity failure as well as risk of natural production activities.
disasters and other adverse conditions in many of the areas in which we operate, which could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons and Transportation all modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve other hazardous material, as well as the risk of res, explosions or other inherent and significant risks.
In addition, inability to provide safe environments for our All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent risks.
An workforce and the public while at our facilities or premises could lead to explosion or re or loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous injuries or loss of life and could result in regulatory action, legal liability and material could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This is a significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on people Our operations are often conducted in hazardous, remote or and the environment and given the high volumes potentially involved.
environmentally sensitive locations, in which the consequences of a spill, explosion, re or other incident could be greater than in other locations.
These operations are subject to various environmental and safety laws, regulations and permits and the consequences of failure to comply with these requirements can include remediation obligations, penalties, loss of operating permits and other sanctions.
Accordingly, inherent in our operations is the risk that if we fail to abide by environmental and safety and protection standards, such failure could lead to damage to the environment and could result in regulatory action, legal liability, material costs, damage to our reputation or denial of our licence to operate.
BPs group-wide operating management system OMS addresses health, safety, security, environmental and operations risks, and aims to provide a consistent framework within which the group can analyse the performance of its activities and identify and remediate shortfalls.
There can be no assurance that OMS will adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and environmental risk or provide the correct mitigations, or that all operations will be in conformance with OMS at all times.
Under the terms of the DoJ settlement see Legal proceedings on page 264, a process safety monitor will review, evaluate, and provide recommendations concerning BPXPs process safety and risk management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Incidents of non-compliance with the recommendations of the process safety monitor could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value and could subject us to further regulatory action or penalties under the terms of the DoJ settlement.
Multiple events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of our operations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 55
