Strategic report BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk prole and maintains the group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides Our management of risk independent assurance to the group chief executive and board, through its committees, over whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and uncertainties to the risks that are significant to BP.
that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy of meeting the worlds Risk governance and oversight energy needs responsibly while creating long-term shareholder value: these risks are described in the Risk factors on page 51.
Key risk governance and oversight committees include the following: Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, Executive committees standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system of Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
internal control that governs how we conduct the business of BP and manage associated risks.
Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, environment and operations integrity risks.
BPs risk management system BPs risk management system is designed to be a simple, consistent Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading and and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups cyber risks.
The system seeks to avoid incidents and maximize Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
business outcomes by allowing us to: Group people committee for employee risks.
t Understand the risk environment, and assess the specic risks and potential exposure for BP.
Resource commitment meeting for risks related to t Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall investment decisions.
Group ethics and compliance committee for risks associated t Manage the identied risks in appropriate ways.
with legal and regulatory compliance and ethics.
t Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
Board and its committees t Report up the management chain to the board on a periodic basis BP board.
about how risks are being managed, monitored, assured and the Audit committee.
improvements that are being made.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
Our risk management activities Gulf of Mexico committee.
Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and management strategic risk governance Board committees management Identify, manage Set policy For information on the board and its committees see page 71. and report risks Plan, manage and monitor performance material risks Our risk prole and assure The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many of our identied risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop and evolve over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in response to internal and external events.
As part of BPs annual planning process, we review the principal risks and Facilities, Business Executive Board uncertainties to the group.
We identify those as having a high priority for assets and segments and corporate particular oversight by the board and its various committees in the coming operations and functions functions year: the risks identied for particular review in 2014 are listed below.
These may be updated throughout the year in response to changes in Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our facilities, internal and external circumstances.
The oversight and management of the assets and functions identify and manage risk, promoting safe, compliant other risks is undertaken in the normal course of business throughout the and reliable operations.
For example, our group-wide operating business and in executive and board committees.
management system OMS integrates BP requirements on health, safety, Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set out in security, environment, social responsibility, operational reliability and the Risk factors on page 51.
There can be no guarantee that our risk related issues.
These BP requirements, along with business needs and the management activities will mitigate or prevent these, or other, risks applicable legal and regulatory requirements, underpin the practical plans from occurring.
developed to help reduce risk and deliver strong, sustainable performance.
Business and strategic risk management our businesses and Gulf of Mexico oil spill functions integrate risk into key business processes such as strategy, planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation, and There is a wide range of risks arising out of the Gulf of Mexico accident and oil spill.
These include legal, operational, reputational and compliance risks.
We do this by collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, making further improvements and planning new BPs management and mitigation of these risks is overseen by the boards activities.
By using a standardized risk management report, we aim for a Gulf of Mexico committee, which seeks to ensure that BP fulls all consistent view of risks across BP.
legitimate obligations whilst protecting and defending BPs interests.
Oversight and governance the board, executive and functional leadership provide oversight to identify and understand significant risks to BP.
They also put in place systems of risk management, compliance and control to mitigate these risks.
Executive committees set policy and oversee the management of group risks, and dedicated board committees review and monitor certain risks throughout the year.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 49 The committees responsibilities include oversight and review of the Safety and operational risks following activities: the legal strategy for litigation: investigations and suspension and debarment actions arising from the accident and oil spill: Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks the strategy connected with settlements and claims: the environmental The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of significant work to remediate or mitigate the effects of the oil spill: management health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents associated with strategy and actions to restore the groups reputation in the US: and releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, operating facilities and compliance with government settlement agreements arising out of the transporting hydrocarbons.
We apply our operating management system accident and oil spill.
OMS, including group and engineering technical practices as applicable, to address these risks.
See page 41 for more information on safety and our See Legal proceedings page 257 and Gulf of Mexico committee page 78 OMS.
Activities include inspection, maintenance, testing, business continuity for further information.
and crisis response planning, and competency development for our employees and contractors.
In addition, we conduct our drilling activity through Strategic and commercial risks a global wells organization in order to promote a consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing wells.
10-point plan In 2011 we set out a 10-point plan to address our priorities through 2014.
Security Among other things, the plan aims to focus on safety and risk management, Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and disrupt efficient investments and disposals, successful delivery of operating our operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and vulnerabilities to manage cashows, renewal and repositioning of our portfolio, and delivery of our major our physical and digital security.
Physical security threats tend to vary projects to plan.
We conduct regular planning and performance monitoring geographically and by type of business.
Our central security team provides activity as part of managing the risks to delivery of this plan.
For an update on guidance and support to a network of regional security advisers who advise our progress against the plan see page 22. and conduct assurance with respect to the management of security risks affecting our people and operations.
We also maintain disaster recovery, crisis Geopolitical and business continuity management plans.
The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to a wide range of political developments and consequent changes to the economic and operating environment.
Geopolitical risk is inherent to many regions in which we operate: heightened political or social tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
We seek to manage this risk actively through the development and maintenance of relationships with governments and stakeholders in each country and region.
In addition, we closely monitor events such as the situation that arose in the Ukraine in February 2014 and implement risk mitigation plans where appropriate.
Cybersecurity The threats to the security of our digital infrastructure continue to evolve and, like many other global organizations, our reliance on computers and network technology is increasing.
A cybersecurity breach could have a significant impact on business operations.
We seek to manage this risk through cybersecurity standards, ongoing monitoring of threats, close co-operation with authorities and awareness initiatives throughout the company.
We also maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans.
Compliance and control risks Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and shareholder value, and potentially affect our licence to operate.
Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have various group requirements covering areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, competition anti-trust law and trade sanctions.
We keep abreast of new regulations and legislation and plan our response to them.
We also operate a range of compliance training and monitoring programmes for our employees.
We offer an independent condential helpline, OpenTalk, for employees, contractors and other third parties.
For information on our code of conduct, see page 48.
Under the terms of the US Department of Justice settlement see Legal proceedings on page 257, an ethics monitor will also review and provide recommendations concerning BPs ethics and compliance programme.
Trading non-compliance In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our trading activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or employees.
We have specic operating standards and control processes to address these risks, including guidelines in relation to trading, and we seek to monitor compliance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to maintain a positive and collaborative relationship with regulators and the industry at large.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
