Principal Risks Principal Risks Principal risks and their management described in the Chairmans Statement and Fund Most of the Companys principal risks are marketManagers Review.
The Report of the Audit and related and no different from those of other Management Engagement Committee on page 32 investment trusts investing primarily in listed markets.
summarises the risk management arrangements.
More specific to Foreign & Colonial are those Note 26 on the accounts sets out the Companys relating to private equity, the prospects for which are financial risk management policy.
Strategy Risk description: Inappropriate strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly changing financial services and savings market, including the advent of clean share classes.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Companys position as a leading savings vehicle.
Strategic issues, including its role as a global investment trust, are considered annually.
Management resource, stability and controls Risk description: The Manager is the main service provider and its failure to continue operating effectively could put in jeopardy the business of the Company.
The loss of the Managers key staff, or failure to manage the succession of such staff, could adversely affect investment returns.
Mitigation: The Board meets regularly with the senior management of the Manager and its Internal Audit function, and has access to publicly available information indicative of the Managers financial position and performance.
The Board has contingency arrangements to facilitate the ongoing operation of the business in the event of any such failure.
The management contract can be moved at short notice.
The Manager structures its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Private equity Risk description: The majority of the underlying private equity investments are in unlisted companies.
Such investments may prove difficult or impossible to realise.
Mitigation: Private equity risks are mitigated by investing in a spread of direct, secondary, venture capital, buyout and mezzanine funds of funds and by the wide spread of underlying private equity firms, which in turn have diversified investment portfolios and vintage years.
The portfolio has recently moved to a net cash positive position.
Investment policy, gearing, currency and derivatives Risk description: Inappropriate asset allocation, sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of gearing and derivatives leading to investment underperformance.
Mitigation: Investments are primarily in a diversified spread of international publicly listed equities with exposure to their underlying currencies.
Investment policy and performance is reviewed with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting, along with the monitoring of cash and borrowing levels as well as options written for the purpose of income enhancement.
The ability of the Company to gear up via long-term and short-term borrowings, in currencies matching those to which the portfolio is exposed, enables it to take a long-term view of the countries, markets and currencies in which it is invested, and ride out short-term volatility.
The Board approves all borrowing facility agreements and has set a limit on gearing and option writing.
Derivatives may also be used for the purpose of hedging foreign currencies, although to date none have.
Outsourced service providers Risk description: Administrative errors or control failures by or between service providers could be damaging to the interests of investors and the Company.
Mitigation: The Board receives annual reports from the Manager on its monitoring of service providers which, for the administration of the F&C savings plans, includes audit site visits: monthly technical compliance monitoring: monthly service delivery meetings: quarterly financial crime prevention forums: and the detailed review and investigation of breaches and complaints.
Extremely high transaction volumes resulted in very poor service for a period in 2013.
Arrangements are also in place to monitor and mitigate other service provider risks, including those relating to the arrangements in place to protect against cyber-attacks and for the safe custody of assets.
