Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Principal risks and uncertanties Like all businesses, the Group faces a In terms of regulatory risk, on 26 April free units in due course.
As we have number of potential risks which, if not 2013 the Financial Conduct Authority done successfully for many years, we will properly controlled, could hinder the FCA issued Policy Statement PS13 1 continue to seek to use our negotiating successful implementation of its strategy setting out the final rules that will apply power to reduce the cost of investing for and have a material impact on the longto platforms and other nominee services our clients.
We had been anticipating the new rules for some There continues to be concern over the The Board believes that a successful risk time and had engaged at length with the uncertainty in the Eurozone regarding management framework balances risk previous regulator during the consultation the indebtedness of certain countries, and reward.
The Board has responsibility process.
The rules and implementation particularly Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy for risk management and internal control, timescale are broadly as we had expected, and Ireland, and the health of their banking further details of which can be found in the and the majority of work required to comply sectors.
As at 30 June 2013 the Group has Corporate Governance statement.
is already either in progress or complete no direct counterparty exposure to these so we expect to be ready in good time.
The Group is not exposed to The risk profile of the business has not FCA platform rules will necessitate a move significant foreign exchange translation or changed significantly this year.
Each year away from commission income to explicit transaction risk.
we highlight the risk of earnings being platform fees that clients will pay directly impacted by market volatility or a fall to us for our services in future.
There are The risk factors mentioned below do not in interest rates.
Although the markets transitional rules that will apply, enabling purport to be exhaustive as there may be remained volatile in 2013, over the year us to continue to earn commission income additional risks that the Group has not yet the FTSE All-Share index rose by 14%.
This on existing assets for a period of two years.
identified or has deemed to be immaterial helped the business to grow the value of We expect to offer all Hargreaves Lansdown that could have a material adverse effect on clients investments which in turn helped clients the ability to buy commission the business.
Interest rates have significantly reduced during the year, partly as a result of the UK Governments Funding for Lending scheme.
12 month LIBOR was Risk Management Framework 0.92% at the end of June 2013 compared Executive Committee and Audit Committee to 1.80% a year earlier, and this is set to significantly reduce interest income during the 2014 financial year.
Market volatility Risk Committee arising from such factors as the Euro crisis remains an accepted risk, although the Group Risk Register Process high percentage of assets in tax wrappers mitigates the impact of market turbulence Committee on client asset retention.
Access Mitigate Identify Monitor Operational Managers www.
co. uk 26 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Industry Risks Fluctuations in the capital markets Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile transaction-based Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading alternative.
activity and or the value of the Groups assets under High proportion of assets under administration in tax wrappers so clients less likely to administration or management, from which we derive withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Changing markets and increased competition Strong market position with pricing power.
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment with Full control over flexible platform.
developing demographic trends and our continued profitability Experienced management team with a strong track record of innovation and depends on our ability to respond to these pressures and responsiveness to the market.
Client focused with a high level of client satisfaction.
Evolving technology Track record of successful development.
The Groups technology needs to remain current if we are to High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of technology at Board level.
develop our systems to accommodate changing preferences, Substantial development and scalability project teams in place.
increased volumes, new products and the emergence of new IT change management controls including, where appropriate, oversight by project industry standards.
Risks arising from technology change board and steering committees.
projects need to be minimised.
Regulatory Strong compliance culture and culture geared towards FCA principle of treating clients The Group may be materially adversely affected as a result of fairly.
new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should the capital resource interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations requirement be increased.
emanating from the UK or Europe.
Alternative recurring revenue models are already successfully operated by the Group and these could be used to mitigate or offset the potential reduction in commission The Group needs to replace its significant platform commission income.
revenue stream following the implementation of the new FCA Competitive prices and service offering will be maintained to ensure business will not Platform Rules.
be lost to competitors many of whom will in any case be faced with the same rule change.
Changes in taxation law The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings in order to plan for an Changes made to tax legislation could reduce the ageing population, which is currently under-provided for.
This creates opportunity for attractiveness of some of the Groups investment products SIPP and ISA business.
HMRC has recently confirmed that commission rebates paid to clients remain tax-free in both the ISA and SIPP wrappers.
Recent Government announcements to allow AIM shares to be held in ISAs and consultation on permitting transfers of Child Trust Funds to Junior ISAs show positive Government support for ISAs.
Damage to the Groups reputation Clients educated to improve awareness of potential boiler room and other online The risk of reputational damage through our own actions or scams, and security procedures are communicated to clients.
the actions of unassociated third parties such as copycat Ongoing monitoring and response to emerging threats.
websites to fraudulently target client funds needs to be Dedicated Information Security Team monitors HLs controls.
Operational Risks Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in respect of High level of resilience built into daily operations.
the Groups information, data, software or information IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top priorities by the Board.
technology systems Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals, established name suppliers and Serious or prolonged security breaches, cyber-attacks, errors dedicated Information Security Team.
or breakdowns in the Groups software or IT systems must IT change management controls including where, appropriate, oversight by project be avoided, and IT changes must be carefully controlled to board and steering committees.
avoid introducing system integrity problems or other business continuity issues.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Operational Risks continued Business continuity Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across primary and two The risk of disruption to the business as a result of IT or power secondary sites, and two alternative sites available for staff relocation failure, fire, flood, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks, relocation should the main headquarters be out of action.
problems and similar must be minimised.
Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice methodologies and tested regularly.
Employee actions damaging reputation High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
The risk of reputational damage e. g. from employee Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams.
misconduct, failure to manage inside information, conflicts of Strong compliance culture.
interest, or fraud must be controlled.
Key personnel Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management and Key personnel must be recruited and retained to prevent staff objectives.
a material adverse effect on the Groups operations and Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
A continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes are in operation to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
Litigation or claims made against the Group High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover.
The Group needs to protect against the risk of litigation and Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing literature.
actions taken by regulatory agencies.
Reliance on third parties Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key suppliers.
Outsourced service providers must meet appropriate Ongoing review of key business partners.
standards to protect the Group from the risk of regulatory sanctions and reputational damage.
Strategic risk Very experienced management team, with a highly successful track record to date.
Management must remain focused on appropriate strategies Management has demonstrated an excellent understanding of the market and and implement the Groups strategy effectively.
continues to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of in-house managed funds HL only manages Fund of Funds to focus on core strength.
Investment performance of the Hargreaves Lansdown multiFund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of manager rather than basic manager funds needs to remain good relative to the market or performance analysis.
in absolute terms, or the Group may be vulnerable to outflows HL Multi-manager Funds are well diversified at the underlying fund level as in those funds and a consequential reduction in revenues.
well as by number of funds, so are less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than more focused funds.
Well established and proven investment process overseen by an Internal Investment Committee.
Financial Risks Liquidity Highly cash generative business with low working capital requirement, and The Group must remain able to meet liabilities as they become the Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and working due and be able to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding capital requirements.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Bank default Only use UK banks where we do not believe the Government would allow Given the current economic climate and in particular the them to fail.
unprecedented problems faced by banks, the Group must Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
protect against the risk that a bank could fail.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Interest rates Close interaction with the banks we use via our Treasury Policy and Treasury Team.
Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest rates or Access to competitive rates due to large value of deposits placed and ability regulatory changes affecting interest income.
to control the interest on client balances.
Close interaction with the FCA on all regulatory changes.
