Risks and Risk Management The Company has put a risk management framework in place conjunction with the Investment Adviser.
If a new risk arises or the covering all aspects of the Groups business.
Due to the nature of likelihood of a risk occurring increases, a mitigation strategy is, the Company being an Investment Company and the outsourcing where appropriate, developed and implemented, together with of key services to the Investment Adviser and other service enhanced monitoring by the Investment Adviser.
providers, reliance is placed on the Groups service providers own systems and controls.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee also reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service The identification, assessment and management of risk are providers at least annually and this review includes a consideration integral elements of the Investment Advisers and the Operators of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
work in both management of the existing portfolio and in seeking The Investment Advisers risk management team has developed a new investment opportunities.
detailed risk control matrix, and this is reviewed and debated on a quarterly basis by the Board.
In addition, on an annual basis the The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups Investment Advisers risk and compliance team reviews compliance portfolio and to individual investments in the Company as at against the documented procedures and controls, and reports its February 2013 in the Companys New Ordinary Shares Prospectus, findings to the Board.
which is available from the Companys website.
Given the limited number of disposals from the portfolio and the very The Investment Adviser and the Operator have established internal similar risk profile of the investments within the portfolio i. e. they controls to manage these risks, and also review and consider the are all social and transportation infrastructure projects and the Groups key risks on a quarterly basis.
The Board reviews the key majority are in the UK with broadly similar contractual structures, risks affecting the Company at each regular board meeting, by the type and nature of the risks in the Group do not materially reference to a risk analysis matrix developed and monitored in change from year to year.
Risk Assessment Risk groups Risk type External Economic factors Legal new laws and legislation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Political changes in policy, both in relation to procurement and the day-to-day management of existing projects Regulatory changes in polices and requirements Strategic Financial objectives impacting on achieving targets Share price discount premium to NAV Management Groups reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Investment Bidding overpaying for assets Acquisition due diligence fails to unearth risks which impact performance Equity risks associated with social and transportation infrastructure projects Performance under-performance by service providers Project termination Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Financial and Treasury Finance and liquidity lack of financial resources Counterparties reliance on financial institutions Currency exchange rate exposure Interest rates both on debt funding and deposit accounts External risks The performance of the portfolio of 79 investments as at 31 March 2013 is affected by a number of economic factors including inflation The Group currently has a broad exposure to social and rates, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates.
Most, if not all of transportation infrastructure markets in the UK, the EU currently the the projects mitigate to some extent against changes in inflation Netherlands and Ireland, and Canada.
The Group has investments, rates by seeking to match their indexation of contractual revenues to business activities, registered companies and limited partnerships in their indexation of contractual costs.
This is not always achievable the UK, Luxembourg and Guernsey.
These activities and entities can where costs are not indexed, an example being where bank debt be affected by changes in economic factors, local legislation, interest rate exposure has been swapped into a fixed rate.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 37 Risks and Risk Management continued Most social and transportation infrastructure concessions provide 2013 the Secretary of State for Health announced that he had some or total protection, through their contractual structures, in accepted the Trust Special Administrators recommendations and relation to changes in legislation which affect either the project asset that the Department for Health will pay for the excess costs of the PFI or the way the services are provided.
contracts over and above what the trust is able to afford itself.
This has provided some comfort to new and existing private capital Changes in tax legislation and accounting practices can affect both invested in UK infrastructure.
the individual investments and have an impact on the Groups corporate subsidiaries and corporate structure.
Where possible, this Under Guernsey legislation, the Company is an Authorised Closedwill be mitigated, but there will be instances where this may not be Ended Investment Scheme and is supervised by the Guernsey possible and in these instances there could be an adverse impact on Financial Services Commission.
The Investment Adviser is authorised the financial performance of the Group.
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK, in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Both The UK Government has now completed its review of alternative the Company and its advisers continually monitor any potential or procurement methods to PFI and has established a new regime actual changes to regulations to ensure both the Group and its which it has called PF2.
As explained earlier in the Investment service providers remain compliant.
Advisers Report, PF2 very closely resembles the principal features of the original PFI procurement model, but also incorporates further Following lengthy consultations, the EU Alternative Investment Fund refinements.
In particular, it is structured to encourage new sources Managers AIFM Directive will have to be transposed into the of private sector capital to participate in the funding of new public national law of each EU Member State by 22 July 2013.
With procurement about to commence, it is too early even at this stage in the process not all member states regulatory to say what opportunities there may be for the Group.
With 576 bodies have yet published their final version of the Directive and the projects in the 2012 update of the National Infrastructure Plan, precise determination of a specific fund managers obligations is procurement of some of these should lead to a growth in the primary often not entirely clear.
market and subsequently, the secondary infrastructure market in the UK in which the Group participates.
The Company and the Investment Adviser have been receiving professional advice, and it is our current expectation that the With an increasing number of other countries developing their own Company will itself be the alternative investment fund manager the social and transportation infrastructure models and procuring new AIFM rather than the Investment Adviser or another specialist infrastructure, the number of projects globally continues to grow.
Furthermore, the Guernsey Financial Services The USA in particular now seems to be making progress with its Commission is expected to adopt the same approach as the UKs programme, albeit still at a slower rate than most market Financial Conduct Authority and will allow existing managers like the participants would like.
The Group is not reliant on any particular Company a grace period of a further year to comply with the full procurement pipeline for its new investments and remains well scope of the legislation.
The full impact of its implementation on the positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Company remains uncertain, but it will increase regulatory and compliance costs, and it may restrict marketing of the Companys Our UK public sector clients continue to seek ways to find shares in the EU, which in turn may have a negative effect on operational savings from existing contracted PFI projects, based on marketing and liquidity of the Companys shares generally.
guidance issued by HM Treasury in July 2011.
The Investment Advisers asset management team is pro-active in assisting clients Strategic Risks who wish to make savings and this work has been ongoing since the Having achieved its long-held objective of a 7.0p per share annual guidance was issued.
We have leveraged our experiences in this dividend in the year to 31 March 2013, the Companys strategy respect from pilot schemes and are in the process of rolling these out remains one of maintaining or growing the net asset value NAV across the portfolio where appropriate.
while maintaining the annual dividend at 7.0p per share or such higher level which could be sustained in the long-term in light of the Each of the Groups projects is built from a legal contract with a forecast operating performance of the Company and prevailing longpublic sector client.
There is a risk, albeit low, that a political term macro-economic conditions.
Based on the current performance decision could be taken to seek to unilaterally change the terms of a of the portfolio, the Board is targeting an annual dividend of 7.1p per contract.
Although such a development would have wide ranging share for the year to 31 March 2014. implications for the market, if it were attempted and was successful, the value of the Groups investment portfolio and its ability to meet The ability both to deliver further growth in distributions to target distributions would be affected.
shareholders and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent on a number of economic factors outside the Companys or the Last summer the UKs Secretary of State for Health exercised his Investment Advisers control.
Whilst reasonable assumptions have powers in respect of an under-performing NHS health trust the been factored into business plans, significant external factors could South London NHS Healthcare Trust which is the contractual materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its counterparty under a major hospital PFI project.
He put the trust into financial objectives.
Examples of such events include a prolonged special administration and appointed a new management team to period of deflation, a rise in corporation tax rates, and changes in tax conduct a review of the trusts operations and finances.
In January legislation affecting the Group and its investments.
38 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 The current portfolio consists of investments in concessions with Investment Risks finite lives and, if no new acquisitions are made, there will come a Acquiring a new investment in an infrastructure project via a trade point in the Companys evolution when it will become necessary to sale involves a certain level of risk.
These are mitigated where start repaying capital.
This is shown diagrammatically in the chart possible by a structured process of thorough due diligence, the on page 20. agreement of suitable protections in the sale and purchase agreements with the vendor, and site visits to view and inspect the The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The method of projects assets.
However due diligence may fail to identify risks and valuing the Groups investments is described in detail in the the business plan assumptions in the acquisition model may not Investment Advisers Report.
To assist in managing the share price subsequently be achieved.
premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the powers to both buy back shares as well as issue additional shares via tap issues or full The Investment Adviser and Operator has internal processes and equity raisings.
There is no guarantee that these measures will controls, developed from its experience of managing funds and minimise the discount or premium to NAV.
investing in infrastructure, to minimise these risks through regular peer group review and internal approval processes.
All investment The Investment Adviser meets existing and potential new decisions are made by an Investment Committee which has approved shareholders throughout the year to explain the Company, its terms of reference to ensure that only those staff with appropriate investments, its performance, and the key risks.
The Board believes skill sets have been appointed, any conflicts should they arise are these ongoing meetings and briefings help educate the market and suitably managed, and an appropriate quorum is achieved.
inform both existing and potential new shareholders.
Investment approval is subject to unanimous consent.
Management Risks In February, the Investment Committee was increased to seven The Group is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser for the day-tomembers with the addition of another Director from within the day management of the Group and to achieve the Groups objectives.
Investment Advisers primary infrastructure team, thereby further The Investment Adviser is supported by other service providers to broadening the Committees experience as well as increasing the the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or another service balance of non-executive members.
Specialist advisers such as provider could have a material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss of lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers are retained to key personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the carry out specific due diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise performance of the Group.
The Management Engagement Committee of the Board reviews the Investments are normally acquired through competition, and so it is performance of each service provider on an annual basis and seeks to important to analyse the potential investment and determine the ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and controls appropriate price the Group is prepared to pay.
The risk of in place in relation to the services they provide to the Group.
The most overpaying at auction is less than for infrastructure assets requiring recent review was in February 2013.
Any performance issues are revenue forecasts, since the majority of the revenue and cost monitored carefully, and if the Board is not satisfied with the level of streams in social infrastructure projects and similar asset types are service delivery, the Board will seek to change service providers.
contractual and therefore fixed in real terms.
The Group has been increasingly successful in sourcing assets through direct In relation to the Investment Adviser, the Board takes comfort from negotiations with vendors, hence mitigating this risk.
the fact that the Investment Adviser has a track record in managing infrastructure investments and has developed an appropriate and Whilst most construction and operational risks in a social detailed set of policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk infrastructure and transportation project are laid off to subcontrols.
The Investment Adviser has been recruiting additional staff contractors through a well-established contractual framework, there within its infrastructure team over the last year, and this has both are occasions when costs and or risks are retained within the SPV.
strengthened and deepened the team of resources on which the These include a number of routine running cost items and are also Group relies.
likely to include: The Investment Adviser is subject to routine review and the Board is Insurance Premiums.
If insurance premiums are not subject to satisfied that there is sufficient depth of expertise within the pass-down to a service provider, any increases are for the account Investment Advisers infrastructure team for the Group not to be of the project.
To provide some protection against substantial reliant on any single individual.
Nevertheless, for good governance increases the majority of the projects have negotiated premium purposes the Board has decided to periodically conduct an risk sharing agreements with the public sector authority such independent assurance review of the Investment Advisers current that when an agreed cap is met the increased premium is mostly, policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls.
An or wholly, taken by the authority.
assurance project by an independent third party is currently being carried out on the valuation procedures, process and controls.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 39 Risks and Risk Management continued Life Cycle also called Asset Renewal or Major Maintenance.
The Group and its PFI PPP P3 investments have a number of Lifecycle is the budget to replace parts of the projects assets financial counterparties providing a range of facilities including debt which are outside the routine maintenance contract.
Examples in funding, hedges, monoline insurance wrapping, bank deposit a building will include floor finishes e. g. carpets, doors, facilities, and insurance.
Failure of a financial party could have a windows, ceilings and mechanical and electrical equipment.
In material effect on the Group depending on the nature of the service some cases this risk and the budget for replacement is passed being provided and the current replacement cost of such a service, if down to the maintenance contractor, and in the remaining available.
The greatest risk is with the deposit banks where the projects, it sits with the project company.
There is a risk that the Group and its investments have cash on short and medium term budget is inadequate or expenditure needs to be carried out deposits.
The Investment Adviser monitors this exposure across the earlier than forecast.
For the current portfolio, the Group portfolio to make sure there is no over-reliance on any single regularly assesses the risk and considers that the current institution and that all counterparties have acceptable investment lifecycle provisions are reasonable and adequate.
Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with their The Group has limited foreign currency exposure at present, with business plans.
Underperformance can be caused by a number of three investments in Euros and two in Canadian dollars.
This may factors, the most likely of which is the underperformance of a service change in the future depending on whether UK or non-UK delivery partner.
The Investment Adviser plays an active role in the investments are acquired.
To date the Group has used a combination management of the Groups investments to ensure any trends in of balance sheet hedging, through multi-currency drawings under its performance are picked up and if necessary, corrected accordingly.
In credit facility or through rolling forward sales of the respective a severe case, the project can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to currency, and hedging prospective income on a short term basis perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new through outright forward currency sales.
The cost of this action would, where possible, be recovered from the previous supplier.
The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations, both on its borrowing and cash deposits.
The PFI PPP P3 projects which are There is a risk that an existing project might be terminated, either bank funded have fixed-rate or inflation-linked interest rate hedges voluntarily or for default.
In these circumstances, the compensation in place on their borrowings for the life of the debt to minimise payable may not cover the carrying value of the investment.
For other types of loan, such as bond issues, the is not considered to be high due, in part, to the requirement for the debt has been issued on a fixed rate or inflation-linked basis for the public sector client to fund these termination costs which include the full term of the instrument.
It is possible, to some extent, to mitigate cost of repaying the debt secured to finance the project.
rate fluctuations on the cash deposits by selecting the deposit period.
However in the current low interest rate economy, the A key risk within a project is the various counterparty exposures: the PFI PPP P3 projects are not earning as much from their cash client, the sub-contractors, and the providers of finance and financial deposits as they were four years ago.
This has impacted the services.
The Group is careful to manage its concentration exposures valuation of the portfolio, since it is an inherent risk where options to to any one party carefully.
Whilst the Groups portfolio is currently mitigate are limited.
predominantly made up of UK PFI PPP investments, the Group has five non-UK investments.
Sub-contractor and financial counterparties All of the projects within the portfolio have revenue linked either exposures are monitored and the Group seeks a balanced portfolio wholly or partially to inflation.
To the extent possible, the operating with no over-reliance on a single party.
costs, both financial e. g. debt facilities and operational e. g. facilities management service contracts, have also been linked to Financial and Treasury inflation or fixed at the outset.
The excess cashflow, or profitability, of these contracts is therefore also indirectly linked to inflation.
With The Groups investments and the Group itself require debt finance to approximately 90% of the projects located in the UK, the Group has achieve its business objectives.
All of the Groups PFI PPP P3 exposure to UK inflation such that for every 1.00% rise in UK RPI, the investments have long term funding in place and do not need gross return on the portfolio rises by approximately 0.6%.
The refinancing to meet their financial plans.
The Group renewed its debt Companys valuation also assumes long-term inflation of 2.75% p. a. facilities in February 2012 and has a committed 100m revolving Since October 2009 UK RPI has been positive: however, if the UK credit facility available until February 2015.
This facility is utilised to were to enter an environment of falling inflation such that RPI was make further acquisitions of new investments and there is a risk that below 2.75% p. a. on average for the remainder of the current it will not be possible to raise equity capital to pay down this facility projects lives, or deflation took hold for a sustained period, the either by way of tap issues or further C Share or New Ordinary issues.
valuation of the portfolio would be adversely impacted.
If this proves to be the case, the Group will either need to extend or refinance the facility or dispose of selected investments to enable it to meet its repayment obligations.
