potential stresses and vulnerabilities which the Group Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks might face.
HSBC participate, where appropriate, in scenario Increased geopolitical risk.
E analyses requested by regulatory bodies.
The Group is taking part in the Bank of England Emerging markets slowdown E concurrent stress test exercise in 2014.
This Growth in a number of emerging markets programme will include common base and stress decelerated during 2013.
Weak demand for scenarios applied across all major UK banks.
The commodities and raw materials due to subdued exercise will be supported by a complementary economic growth and limited investment activity in programme of data provision to the Bank of England mature markets and in mainland China affected all under its Firm Data Submission Framework FDSF.
Emerging markets continued The PRA is considering a range of disclosure options to face the risks of fiscal decline and increasing related to the stress test exercise.
In addition, capital flows HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH were volatile, particularly during the second half of and HSBC Bank USA NA HBUS are subject to the year, and in several cases lead to a tightening of the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Stress Testing monetary policy to counter capital outflows.
Any programmes of the Federal Reserve and the Office of consequent rise in interest rates, however, could put the Comptroller of the Currency.
HNAH and HBUS growth at risk and increase the risk of a liquidity made submissions under these programmes on crisis.
Disclosure by the Federal Reserve Mature economies are depending on stronger and by HNAH and HBUS of the results of these trade growth with emerging markets to help them exercises will be made in March 2014. through difficult economic times domestically.
HSBC will be included in the next round of A number of them have implemented austerity European stress test exercises, scheduled for 2014. measures in order to reduce their deficits and public HSBC France and HSBC Malta will participate in debt.
While austerity is expected to help resolve the the ECBs Asset Quality Review, run as part of the sovereign and banking crisis in the medium term, it ECBs comprehensive assessment prior to inception is limiting growth, increasing unemployment and of the Single Supervisory Mechanism.
They will then restricting taxation revenues severely in the short be subject to the ECBs stress testing process.
This, in turn, is affecting the rest of the world Group will take part in the related exercise run by through lower trade.
Disclosures of the results of these exercises are planned in late 2014.
Potential impact on HSBC Global trade and capital flows may contract Top and emerging risks T E as a result of weaker economic growth in Unaudited some emerging markets, banks deleveraging, Our approach to identifying and monitoring top expectations of tapering of quantitative easing, and emerging risks is described on page 38. the introduction of protectionist measures in certain markets, the emergence of geopolitical During 2013, senior management paid particular risks or increasing redenomination risk.
The attention to a number of top and emerging risks, and contraction might curtail our profitability.
our current ones are as follows: While growth in emerging markets as a whole has been constrained by lower world demand and commodity prices, some countries are struggling with domestic issues and could trigger a new crisis of confidence with the potential for increased volatility.
In Egypt, an uncertain future is affecting the economy and the countrys ability to attract the necessary financial support.
In Brazil, middle class protests have highlighted concerns regarding the political and economic choices made by the authorities, while in Turkey the situation has been aggravated by internal conflict in the ruling 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks party.
In Argentina, the unresolved dispute with which we operate.
Actual conflict could put our hold out bondholders is fuelling the risk of staff in harms way and bring physical damage new defaults.
Emerging markets have been to our assets.
supported during the last two years by We have increased our monitoring of the significant capital inflows from advanced geopolitical and economic outlook, in particular economies but a reverse of these capital flows, in countries where we have material exposures as happened in mid-2013, would create and a physical presence.
Our internal credit risk difficulties for all countries having to finance rating of sovereign counterparties takes these current account deficits, government debt factors into account and drives our appetite for or both.
Finally, while economic growth in conducting business in those countries.
Where mainland China appears to be in line with its necessary, we adjust our country limits and governments expectations, structural issues exposures to reflect our appetite and mitigate remain and a sharper than expected slowdown these risks as appropriate.
could occur with implications for all other emerging markets.
We closely watch Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks developments in all markets to ensure insights to our business model are shared and appropriate mitigating action is taken as circumstances evolve.
T Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability.
Increased geopolitical risk E T Regulatory investigations, fines, Our operations are exposed to risks arising from sanctions, commitments and consent political instability and civil unrest in a number of orders and requirements relating to countries which may have a wider effect on regional conduct of business and financial crime stability and regional and global economies.
negatively affecting our results and brand.
Geopolitical risk remains high in the Middle East as a result of the continued violence and unrest T Dispute risk.
in Egypt and the civil war in Syria, which may spill over into neighbouring countries.
Tensions between Financial service providers face increasingly Israel and Iran add to the risks in the region, stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory although diplomatic contacts with Irans new requirements, particularly in the areas of capital administration may engender an improvement in and liquidity management, conduct of business, relations.
operational structures and the integrity of financial services delivery.
Increased government intervention In Asia, continued tensions over maritime and control over financial institutions, together with sovereignty disputes involving mainland China measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly and Japan may escalate to include military action, alter the competitive landscape.
These measures may while actions by the government of the Democratic be introduced as formal requirements in a supraPeoples Republic of Korea risk destabilising the equivalent manner and to variable timetables by region.
In other emerging markets such as Turkey and Brazil, demonstrations have taken place as Regulatory developments affecting our T the population has become increasingly critical business model and Group profitability of prevailing economic policies.
In Turkey, there is Several regulatory changes are likely to affect our significant political uncertainty and the government activities, both of the Group as a whole and of some is struggling to maintain a credible policy in order to or all of our principal subsidiaries.
These changes maintain creditors confidence.
include: Potential impact on HSBC the publication on 27 June 2013 of CRD IV, Our results are subject to the risk of loss from which introduced in the EU the Basel III unfavourable political developments, currency measures that came into effect on 1 January fluctuations, social instability and changes in 2014, together with the publication by the PRA government policies on matters such as on 19 December 2013 of its final rules on expropriation, authorisations, international implementing CRD IV which apply to firms ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange regulated by the PRA in the UK: transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in 142 the introduction of new regulatory bodies Potential impact on HSBC and powers in Europe comprising, in the UK, Proposed changes in regulation relating to the FPC, the PRA and the FCA: and, in the capital and liquidity requirements, remuneration eurozone, the granting to the European Central and or taxes could increase our cost of doing Bank ECB of supervisory powers from business, reducing future profitability.
November 2014: Proposed changes in and the implementation the designation of the Group by the Financial of regulations for derivatives including Stability Board as a global systemically mandatory central clearing, the ICB ringimportant bank and resultant application fencing proposals, recovery and resolution of higher loss absorbency and other plans, the Volcker Rule and the Foreign requirements: Account Tax Compliance Act known as finalisation of the Financial Services Banking FATCA may affect the manner in which we Reform Act 2013 in the UK to give effect conduct our activities and how the Group is to the recommendations of the Independent structured.
These measures have the potential to Commission on Banking ICB in relation to increase our cost of doing business and curtail the future ring-fencing of our UK retail the types of business we can carry out, with the banking business from wholesale banking consequent risk of decreased profitability.
activities, the structural separation of certain Because the development and implementation of activities envisaged in legislation and rules many of these various regulations are in their adopted in the US including the final Volcker early stages, it is not possible to estimate the Rule adopted in December 2013 under the effect on our operations.
Dodd-Frank Act and potential legislative Mandatory central clearing of derivatives also changes across the EU: brings new risks to HSBC in our role as a changes in the regime for the operation of clearing member, as we will be required to capital markets with increasing standardisation, underwrite losses incurred by central clearing central clearing, reporting and margin counterparties from the default of other clearing requirements through a number of regulatory members and their clients.
Hence central initiatives including European Market clearing brings with it a new element of Infrastructure Regulation, Dodd Frank and the interconnectedness between clearing members revised Markets in Financial Instruments and clients which we believe may increase Directive Regulation MiFID2 : rather than reduce our exposure to systemic risk.
requirements flowing from arrangements for Potential market disruption as a result of the the recovery and resolution of the Group and AQR, including a possible re-emergence of the its main operating entities: eurozone crisis, may affect us directly through our exposure to eurozone banks and sovereigns, continued changes in the manner and standards and indirectly should there be any diminution for the conduct of business, including the in economic activity in the eurozone.
effects of the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Commission on Banking While the tightening by regulators of credit Standards which will be given effect through controls limits consumer indebtedness and will Part 4 of the Financial Services Banking benefit credit markets and our portfolios in the Reform Act 2013 : longer term, it may reduce our growth prospects and affect our business strategy in certain the forthcoming ECB Asset Quality Review countries.
AQR, which may reveal that substantial recapitalisation is needed among eurozone We are closely engaged with governments and banks: regulators in the countries in which we operate to help ensure that the new requirements are the tightening of credit controls by regulators in properly considered and can be implemented in a number of countries on mortgage lending and an effective manner.
We are also ensuring that unsecured portfolios: and our capital and liquidity plans take into account the continued risk of further changes to regulation the potential effects of the changes.
Capital relating to remuneration and other taxes.
allocation and liquidity management disciplines have been expanded to incorporate future 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks increased capital and liquidity requirements relate to ongoing compliance with applicable antiand drive appropriate risk management and money laundering and sanctions laws.
His work is mitigating actions proceeding as anticipated consistent with the timelines and requirements set forth in relevant Regulatory investigations, fines, agreements.
T sanctions, commitments and consent As reflected in the agreement entered into with orders and requirements relating to the OCC in December 2012 the the Gramm-Leachconduct of business and financial crime Bliley Act GLBA Agreement, the OCC negatively affecting our results and has determined that HSBC Bank USA is not in brand compliance with the requirements which provide Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory that a national bank and each depository institution sanctions or fines related to conduct of business affiliate of the national bank must be both welland financial crime.
The incidence of regulatory capitalised and well-managed in order to own or proceedings and other adversarial proceedings control a financial subsidiary.
As a result, HSBC against financial service firms is increasing.
Bank USA and its parent holding companies, including HSBC, no longer meet the qualification Regulatory commitments and consent orders requirements for financial holding company status, and may not engage in any new types of financial In December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HNAH and activities without the prior approval of the Federal HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Bank USA Reserve Board.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA may entered into agreements with US and UK authorities not directly or indirectly acquire control of or hold in relation to investigations regarding past an interest in any new financial subsidiary, nor inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering commence a new activity in its existing financial and sanctions laws.
Among these agreements, HSBC subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a fivethe OCC.
year deferred prosecution agreement US DPA with the US Department of Justice DoJ and Potential impact on HSBC HSBC Holdings entered into a two-year DPA with the New York County District Attorney the It is difficult to predict the outcome of the DANY DPA.
HSBC Holdings also entered into regulatory proceedings involving our an undertaking with the FSA revised as the FCA businesses.
Unfavourable outcomes may have Direction to comply with certain forward-looking a material adverse effect on our reputation, obligations with respect to anti-money laundering brand and results, including loss of business and sanctions requirements.
Under the settlement agreements, HSBC Our significant involvement in facilitating Holdings, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA made international capital flows and trade exposes payments totalling US$1.9bn to US authorities the Group to the risk of financial crime or and undertook to continue cooperating fully with US inadvertently breaching restrictions and and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities sanctions imposed by OFAC and other and take further action to strengthen our compliance regulators.
Through our Global Standards policies and procedures.
The agreements with the programme, we are implementing consistent DoJ and the US Federal Reserve Board and the FCA procedures and controls to detect, deter and Direction require us to retain an independent monitor protect against financial crime.
who is, for FCA purposes, a skilled person under In relation to the DPAs, HSBC Holdings and section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets HSBC Bank USA have committed to take or Act to evaluate our progress in fully implementing continue to adhere to a number of remedial our obligations and produce regular assessments of measures.
Breach of the US DPA at any time the effectiveness of our Compliance function.
during its term may allow the DoJ to prosecute On 1 July 2013, the US District Court for the HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA in relation Eastern District of New York approved the US DPA to the matters which are the subject of the US and retained authority to oversee implementation DPA.
Breach of the DANY DPA may allow the of the same.
Michael Cherkasky began his work as New York County District Attorneys Office to Monitor on 22 July 2013, charged with evaluating prosecute HSBC Holdings in relation to the and reporting upon, the effectiveness of the Groups matters which are the subject of that DPA.
internal controls, policies and procedures as they 144 In relation to the GLBA Agreement, if all of in relation to a particular product.
There have been our affiliate depositary institutions are not in recent examples of this approach by regulators in the compliance with these requirements within the context of the possible mis-selling of payment time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, protection insurance PPI, of interest rate hedging HSBC could be required either to divest HSBC products to SMEs and of wealth management Bank USA or to divest or terminate any products.
financial activities conducted in reliance on the The Group also remains subject to a number GLBA.
Similar consequences under the GLBA of other regulatory proceedings involving Agreement could result for subsidiaries of investigations and reviews by various national HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial regulatory, competition and enforcement authorities activities in reliance on expanded powers including in the UK, the US, Canada, the EU, provided for in the GLBA.
Any such divestiture Switzerland and Asia that are conducting or termination of activities would have a investigations and reviews relating to certain past material adverse effect on the consolidated submissions made by panel banks and the process results and operation of HSBC.
The GLBA for making submissions in connection with the Agreement requires HSBC Bank USA to take setting of London interbank offered rates Libor, all steps necessary to correct the circumstances European interbank offered rates Euribor and conditions resulting from non-compliance and other benchmark interest rates.
In addition, with the requirements referred to above.
We regulators in the UK, the US, Hong Kong and certain have initiated steps to satisfy the requirements other jurisdictions are conducting investigations of the GLBA Agreement.
relating to trading on foreign exchange markets.
As Steps to address many of the requirements certain HSBC entities are members of these panels of the DPAs, the FCA Direction and the GLBA and participate in the foreign exchange market, Agreement have either already been taken or are HSBC and or its subsidiaries have been the subject under way.
These include simplifying the Groups of regulatory demands for information and are control structure, strengthening the governance cooperating with those investigations and reviews.
structure with new leadership appointments, revising In addition, HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank plc, key policies and establishing bodies to implement HSBC Bank USA and other panel banks have been single Global Standards shaped by the highest or named as defendants in private lawsuits filed in the most effective standards available in any location US with respect to the setting of Libor, including where the Group operates, as well as substantially putative class action lawsuits which have been increasing spending and staffing in the anti-money consolidated before the US District Court for the laundering and regulatory compliance areas in the Southern District of New York.
HSBC and other past few years.
There can be no assurance that these panel banks have also been named as defendants steps will be effective or that HSBC will not have to in putative class action lawsuits in New York and take additional remedial measures in the future to Chicago relating to credit default swap pricing.
The comply with the terms of the DPAs, the FCA complainants in those actions assert claims against Direction or the GLBA Agreement.
HSBC and other panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Conduct of business Exchange Act and state law see Note 43 on the Regulators in the UK and other countries have Financial Statements for further information.
continued to increase their focus on conduct risk including paying attention to sales processes and Potential impact on HSBC incentives, product and investment suitability and Regulators in the UK and other countries may more general conduct of business concerns.
In the identify future industry-wide mis-selling, market UK, the FCA is making increasing use of existing conduct or other issues that could affect the and new powers of intervention and enforcement, Group.
This may lead from time to time to: including powers to consider past business i significant direct costs or liabilities: and undertaken and implement customer compensation ii changes in the practices of such businesses.
and redress schemes or other, potentially significant, Also, decisions taken in the UK by the Financial remedial work.
Additionally, the FCA and other Ombudsman Service in relation to customer regulators increasingly take actions in response complaints or any overseas equivalent with to customer complaints which may be amplified jurisdiction could, if applied to a wider class through customers use of social media channels, or grouping of customers, have a material either specific to an institution or more generally 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Top and emerging risks Areas of special interest adverse effect on the operating results, financial They can have both financial and reputational condition and prospects of the Group.
The size and scope of the change to our Dispute risk T Compliance function could generate heightened The current economic environment has increased the execution and people risk including significant Groups exposure to actual and potential litigation.
resourcing demands and are subject to close Further details are provided in Note 43 on the management oversight.
Internet crime and fraud T Potential impact on HSBC With the ever-growing acceptance of and demand Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss for internet and mobile services by customers, HSBC and significant reputational damage which could is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal adversely affect customer and investor activities via these channels.
result in financial loss and or customer data and sensitive information being compromised.
Along Risks related to our business operations, with internet fraud, the overall threat of external governance and internal control systems fraud may increase during adverse economic conditions, particularly in retail and commercial T Heightened execution risk.
We also face the risk of breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems failure or T Information security risk.
unavailability, and our business is subject to T Data management.
disruption from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts Model risk.
Heightened execution risk T Potential impact on HSBC There are a number of factors which may affect the Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses successful delivery of our strategy.
These include in service to customers and or economic loss to the increasing regulatory pressures and demands and HSBC.
These threats also exist when we rely the challenging macroeconomic environment, which on external suppliers or vendors for services may affect our ability to achieve planned earnings provided to the Group and our customers.
The implementation of our strategy to simplify our business, which involves withdrawing We have increased our defences through from certain markets, presents disposal risks enhanced monitoring and have implemented which must be carefully managed.
Implementing additional controls such as two-factor organisational changes to support the Groups authentication to reduce the possibility of strategy, including the restructuring of our losses from fraud.
We continually assess the Compliance function into two distinct sub-functions: threats from internet crime and fraud as they Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory evolve and adapt our controls to mitigate them.
Compliance, also requires close management oversight.
Information security risk T The security of our information and technology Potential impact on HSBC infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking Our annual planning and stress testing processes applications and processes while protecting our consider the effect of potential risks from the customers and the HSBC brand.
external environment on our earnings and capital position and actions by management Potential impact on HSBC to mitigate them.
Information security risk gives rise to potential The potential risks of disposals include financial loss and reputational damage which regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of could adversely affect customer and investor key personnel and interruption to systems and confidence.
Loss of customer data would also processes during business transformation.
trigger regulatory breaches which could result in fines and penalties being incurred.
