When the top and emerging risks listed above global business levels.
Similar arrangements are resulted in our risk appetite potentially being in place in our major operating subsidiaries.
exceeded, we took steps to mitigate them, including The Group Risk Committee is responsible for reducing our exposure to areas of stress.
Given the advising the Board on high-level risk related matters impact on the Group of breaching the US DPA, and risk governance.
significant senior management attention was given to tracking and monitoring our compliance with its The risk governance framework was augmented requirements and improving policies, processes and by the establishment in January 2013 of the controls to minimise the risk of a breach.
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, which reports to the Board on matters relating to financial For a detailed account of these risks see page 141 and for a crime and financial system abuse and provides a summary of our risk factors, see page 135. forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk.
How we manage risk A Conduct & Values Committee was established in January 2014, to oversee the design and application Our risk culture is fundamental to the delivery of our of HSBCs policies, procedures and standards, to strategic objectives.
It may be characterised ensure that we conduct business responsibly and as conservative, control-based and collegiate.
It is consistently adhere to HSBC Values and to advise the reinforced by our HSBC Values and our Global Board accordingly.
Standards, and forms the basis on which our risk appetite and risk management framework are For a description of the governance structure for managing established.
These are instrumental in aligning the risk at the Group level, see the report of the Group Risk Committee on page 352.
The Report of the Financial System behaviour of individuals with the Groups attitude to Vulnerabilities Committee is on page 358. assuming and managing risk.
Three lines of defence We manage risk actively, with five main elements underpinning our risk culture.
The Group has adopted a risk management and internal control structure referred to as the three Running risk like a business lines of defence to ensure we achieve our commercial aims while meeting regulatory and legal Running risk like a business means ensuring that the requirements.
It is a key part of our operational risk Global Risk function is dynamic and responsive to management framework.
the needs of its stakeholders.
We continue to focus on: First line every employee is responsible for the risks that are part of their day to day jobs.
making systems compatible for example, in The first line of defence ensures that all key Global Risk and Global Finance so a complete risks within their operations are identified, picture of our risks is obtained: mitigated and monitored by appropriate internal streamlining data production and re-engineering controls within an overall control environment.
processes to create time to spend on risk management: and Second line global functions, such as Global understanding the detail behind our risks and Risk, Global Finance and Global Human costs.
Resources form the second line of defence.
They have similar responsibilities to the first Organisation and structure line of defence for the processes and activities they own.
In addition, they are responsible Robust risk governance and accountability are for setting policy and for providing oversight embedded throughout the Group, fostering a and challenge of the activities conducted by continuous monitoring of the risk environment the first line.
and an integrated evaluation of risks and their interactions.
Adherence to consistent standards and Third line Internal Audit forms the third line risk management policies is required across HSBC of defence, providing independent assurance by our Global Standards and our Global Risk to senior management and the Board over Operating Model.
the design and operation of HSBCs risk management, governance and internal control Our risk governance framework, of which our processes.
risk appetite framework is a significant element, ensures the appropriate oversight of and For details of our operational risk management framework, accountability for the effective management of risk, see page 244. including financial crime risk, at Group, regional and 39 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Risk review How we manage risk How risk affects our performance People operating plan and plays an important role in our six filters process.
All employees are required to identify, assess and manage risk within the scope of their assigned Global businesses, geographical regions and responsibilities and, as such, they are critical to the global functions are required to align their risk effectiveness of the three lines of defence.
Personal appetite statements with the Groups.
accountability for Global Standards is reinforced by Quantitative and qualitative metrics are assigned HSBC Values.
to nine key categories: earnings, capital, liquidity Clear and consistent employee communication and funding, securitisations, cost of risk, intra-group on risk conveys strategic messages and sets the tone lending, strategic investments, risk categories and from senior leadership.
A suite of mandatory training risk diversification and concentration.
Measurement on critical risk and compliance topics is deployed to against the metrics: embed skills and understanding and strengthen the guides underlying business activity, ensuring risk culture within HSBC.
It reinforces the attitude to it is aligned to risk appetite statements: risk in the behaviour expected of employees, as informs risk-adjusted remuneration: described in our risk policies.
The training is updated enables the key underlying assumptions to regularly, describing technical aspects of the various be monitored and, where necessary, adjusted risks assumed by the Group and how they should through subsequent business planning cycles: be managed effectively.
Staff are supported in their and roles by a disclosure line which enables them to raise promptly identifies business decisions needed concerns confidentially see page 29. to mitigate risk.
Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach Some of the core metrics that are measured and to remuneration.
Individual awards are based on presented to the Board monthly are tabulated below: compliance with HSBC Values and the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives which are Key risk appetite metrics aligned to our risk appetite and global strategy.
2013 27 For further information on risk and remuneration, see the Target Actual Report of the Group Remuneration Committee on page 360.
Core tier 1 ratio........... 9.5% to 10.5% 13.6% Common equity Risk management processes and procedures tier 1 ratio............... 9.5% to 10.5% 10.9% Return on equity......... 12% to 15% 9.2% Risk management within HSBC is driven by the Return on RWAs......... 2.1% to 2.7% 2.0% following four processes: Cost efficiency ratio.... 48% to 52% 59.6% Advances to customer risk identification: 14 accounts ratio....... Below 90% 72.9% risk appetite: Cost of risk loan Below 15% of mapping our risk profile: and impairment charges operating income 7.7% stress testing and scenario analysis For footnotes, see page 46.
Risk identification In 2013, we changed the targets for two of these We identify and monitor risks continuously.
Our return on risk-weighted process, which is informed by analysis of our risk assets target was raised from 1.8-2.6% to the current factors and the results of our stress testing target of 2.1-2.7%, reflecting changes in our risk programme, gives rise to the classification of certain profile as we reshaped our portfolio of businesses in key risks as top or emerging.
Changes in our line with our strategy and our six filters framework.
assessment of top and emerging risks may result in As our portfolios became less risky, we reduced the adjustments to our business strategy and, potentially, acceptable cost of risk from below 20% to below our risk appetite.
Our core tier 1 ratio exceeded the target, Risk appetite although remained within our risk tolerance to The Groups Risk Appetite Statement describes ensure we were well placed to meet requirements on the types and levels of risk that we are prepared to a Basel III basis page 309. accept in executing our strategy.
The Risk Appetite Our six filters are described on page 15.
Statement is approved by the Board on the advice of the Group Risk Committee.
It is a key component of our risk management framework, informs our annual 40
