Managing risk Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks Unaudited to our business model As a provider of banking and financial Failure to implement our obligations under the services, we actively manage risk as a deferred prosecution agreements could have a core part of our day-to-day activities.
material adverse effect on our results and operations.
Our risk management and risk governance frameworks, which are employed at all levels of Failure to comply with certain regulatory the organisation, are described on page 39. requirements would have a material adverse effect on our results and operations.
The growth in our business during 2013 was achieved while risks were assumed in a measured Failure to meet the requirements of regulatory manner in line with our risk appetite and risks, stress tests could have a material adverse effect particularly reputational and operational, were on our capital plan, operations, results and future mitigated when they exceeded our risk appetite.
On a reported basis, total assets decreased by We are subject to a number of legal and 1% while our credit risk-weighted assets RWAs regulatory actions and investigations, the decreased by 4% during the year.
outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, but unfavourable outcomes could have a We continue to maintain a very strong liquidity material adverse effect on our operating results position and are well positioned for the changing and brand.
Unfavourable legislative or regulatory developments, or changes in the policy of Risks faced by HSBC regulators or governments, could generate model All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the risk and could have a material adverse effect on analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management our operations, financial condition and prospects.
of risks or combinations of risks.
The UK Government has passed legislation to implement banking reforms based on the Risk factors recommendations of the Independent Commission We have identified a comprehensive suite of risk on Banking ICB.
Additional banking reform factors which covers the broad range of risks our proposals are being considered in France, Germany businesses are exposed to.
and the EU and any resulting structural changes could have a material adverse effect on us.
A number of the risk factors have the potential to affect the results of our operations or financial We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries condition, but may not necessarily be deemed as in which we operate which could have a material top or emerging risks.
They inform the ongoing adverse effect on our operating results.
assessment of our top and emerging risks which may result in our risk appetite being revised.
The Risks related to our business operations, risk factors are: governance and internal control systems Our risk management measures may not be Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk successful.
Current economic and market conditions may Operational risks are inherent in our business.
Our operations are subject to the threat of We have exposure to the ongoing economic crisis fraudulent activity.
Our operations are subject to disruption from the We are subject to political and economic risks in external environment.
the countries in which we operate, including the risk of government intervention.
Our operations utilise third-party suppliers.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may Our operations are highly dependent on our affect our results.
We may not be able to meet regulatory requests for data.
135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Our operations have inherent reputational risk.
Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC We may suffer losses due to employee Holdings or any of their respective debt securities misconduct.
could increase the cost or decrease the availability We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing of our funding and adversely affect our liquidity appropriate senior management and skilled position and interest margins.
Risks concerning borrower credit quality are Our financial statements are based in part on inherent in our businesses.
judgements, estimates and assumptions which are Our insurance business is subject to risks relating subject to uncertainty.
to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal customer behaviour.
activities without our knowledge, which could HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as have a material adverse effect on us.
a result, is dependent on loan payments and We may not achieve all the expected benefits dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its of our strategic initiatives.
obligations, including obligations with respect to its debt securities, and to provide profits for We have significant exposure to counterparty payment of future dividends to shareholders.
risk within the financial sector and to other risk concentrations.
We may be required to make substantial contributions to our pension plans.
Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the value of our portfolios.
Risks managed by HSBC Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential The principal risks associated with our banking and to our businesses.
insurance manufacturing operations are described in the tables below.
Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Credit risk page 150 The risk of financial loss if a Credit risk arises principally Credit risk is: customer or counterparty fails from direct lending, trade measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or to meet an obligation under a finance and leasing business, counterparty fails to make repayments.
In the case of derivatives, the contract.
but also from certain other measurement of exposure takes into account the current mark-toproducts such as guarantees market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential and derivatives.
change in that value over time caused by movements in market rates: monitored within limits, approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities.
These limits represent the peak exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations: and managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk page 213 The risk that we do not have Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: sufficient financial resources mismatches in the timing of measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash to meet our obligations as they cash flows.
flow projections, coverage ratio and advances to core funding ratios: fall due or that we can only do Funding risk arises when the monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework so at excessive cost.
liquidity needed to fund and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management illiquid asset positions cannot Committees ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management be obtained at the expected Meeting: and terms and when required.
managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless pre-committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business as usual market practice.
136 Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Market risk page 230 The risk that movements in Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: market factors, including separated into two portfolios: measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate potential foreign exchange rates and trading portfolios comprise losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and commodity prices, interest positions arising from prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence, rates, credit spreads and market-making and augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on equity prices, will reduce our warehousing of customerportfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events or income or the value of our derived positions.
movements in a set of financial variables: portfolios.
non-trading portfolios monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest comprise positions that income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are primarily arise from the applied to the market risk positions within each risk type: and interest rate management of managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings our retail and commercial and our various global businesses.
These units are allocated across banking assets and business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations page 258.
Operational risk page 244 The risk of loss resulting from Operational risk arises from Operational risk is: inadequate or failed internal day to day operations or measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk processes, people and systems external events, and is relevant and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and or from external events, to every aspect of our effectiveness of controls: including legal risk along business.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: with accounting, tax, security Compliance risk and fiduciary and and fraud, people, systems, risk are discussed below.
projects, operations and managed primarily by global business and functional managers.
They Other operational risks are organisational change risk.
identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage them and covered in the Appendix to monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the operational Risk page 266. risk management framework.
Global Operational Risk is responsible for the framework and for overseeing the management of operational risks within businesses and functions.
Compliance risk page 247 The risk that we fail to observe Compliance risk is part of Compliance risk is: the letter and spirit of all operational risk, and arises measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments relevant laws, codes, rules, from rules, regulations, other whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry, regulatory feedback regulations and standards of standards and Group policies, and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global good market practice, and including those relating to businesses and functions: incur fines and penalties and anti-money laundering, antimonitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the suffer damage to our business bribery and corruption, results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of as a consequence.
counter-terrorist and defence functions, including the Financial Crime Compliance and proliferation financing, Regulatory Compliance functions, and the results of internal and sanctions compliance, conduct external audits and regulatory inspections: and of business and market conduct.
managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to The DPA is discussed in Top assure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation and Emerging Risks on page work is undertaken where required.
Fiduciary risk page 248 The risk of breaching our Fiduciary risk is part of Fiduciary risk is: fiduciary duties.
operational risk, and arises measured by monitoring against risk appetite: from our business activities monitored through the use of key indicators: and where we act in a fiduciary capacity as Trustee, managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive Investment Manager or policy framework.
as mandated by law or regulation.
137 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Other material risks Reputational risk page 260 The risk that illegal, unethical Reputational risk encompasses Reputational risk is: or inappropriate behaviour negative reaction not only to measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings by the Group itself, members activities which may be illegal with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers of staff or clients or or against regulations, but and employees: representatives of the also to activities that may be monitored through a reputational risk management framework, taking Group will damage HSBCs counter to societal standards, into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring activity reputation, leading potentially values and expectations.
It outlined above: and to a loss of business, fines or arises from a wide variety of penalties.
causes, including how we managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of conduct our business and the policies and guidelines.
There is a clear structure of committees and way in which clients to whom individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the we provide financial services, Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional business and bodies who represent equivalents.
Pension risk page 260 The risk that contributions Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: from Group companies and investments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient funds members fail to generate inadequate return, economic to meet the cost of their accrued benefits: sufficient funds to meet the conditions leading to monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed cost of accruing benefits for corporate failures, adverse at both Group and regional levels: and the future service of active changes in interest rates or members, and the risk that the inflation, or members living managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance performance of assets held in longer than expected structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting.
pension funds is insufficient longevity risk.
Pension risk to cover existing pension includes operational risks liabilities.
Sustainability risk page 263 The risk that the Sustainability risk arises from Sustainability risk is: environmental and social the provision of financial measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a effects of providing financial services to companies or customers activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to services outweigh the projects which run counter all high risk transactions: economic benefits.
to the needs of sustainable monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly development.
by Group Sustainability Risk management: and managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high environmental or social impacts.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are at Group level.
Our insurance operations are also separately regulated from our banking operations.
subject to the operational risks and the other material Risks in the insurance entities are managed using risks presented above in relation to the banking methodologies and processes appropriate to operations, and these are covered by the Groups risk insurance activities, but remain subject to oversight management processes.
138 Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Financial risks page 253 Our ability to effectively Exposure to financial risks Financial risks are: match the liabilities arising arises from: measured separately for each type of risk: under insurance contracts market risk of changes in market risk is measured in terms of exposure to fluctuations in key with the asset portfolios that the fair values of financial financial variables: back them are contingent on assets or their future cash the management of financial credit risk is measured as the amount which could be lost if a flows from fluctuations in risks such as market, credit customer or counterparty fails to make repayments: and variables such as interest and liquidity risks, and the rates, foreign exchange liquidity risk is measured using internal metrics including stressed extent to which these risks are rates and equity prices: operational cash flow projections.
credit risk and the potential monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework Liabilities to policyholders for financial loss following of delegated authorities: and under unit-linked contracts the default of third parties move in line with the value of managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines in meeting their obligations: the underlying assets, and as clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk and such the policyholder bears managers.
Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are liquidity risk of entities the majority of the financial usually exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity prices to not being able to make risks.
the extent that the market exposure cannot be managed by utilising payments to policyholders any discretionary participation or bonus features within the policy Contracts with DPF share the as they fall due as there are contracts they issue.
performance of the underlying insufficient assets that can assets between policyholders be realised as cash.
and the shareholder in line with the type of contract and the specific contract terms.
Insurance risk page 258 The risk that, over time, The cost of claims and Insurance risk is: the cost of acquiring and benefits can be influenced measured in terms of life insurance liabilities: administering a contract, by many factors, including monitored by the RBWM Risk Management Committee, which claims and benefits may mortality and morbidity checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a exceed the aggregate amount experience, lapse and risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB: and of premiums received and surrender rates and, if the investment income.
policy has a savings element, managed both centrally and locally using product design, the performance of the assets underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
held to support the liabilities.
Stress testing The extent to which those action plans are implemented will depend on senior managements Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme evaluation of the risks and their potential examines the sensitivities of our capital plans and consequences, taking into account HSBCs risk demand for regulatory capital under a number appetite.
of scenarios and ensures that top and emerging risks have been appropriately considered.
The governance During 2013, the results of a number of and management of enterprise-wide stress testing, macroeconomic stress scenarios were presented to including model development, validation and use, senior management.
These included an assessment is overseen by the Group Risk Committee.
of the 2013 annual operating plan under two macroeconomic scenarios: a worsening eurozone The development of macroeconomic scenarios is crisis and a US fiscal cliff scenario.
We also ran a a critical part of the process.
Potential scenarios are PRA core programme stress testing exercise based defined and generated by an expert panel comprising on a global slow growth scenario, which factored in Global Risk, Global Finance and external economic a China hard landing scenario specified by the PRA advisers.
Variables and assumptions underpinning the based on a pronounced economic slowdown in scenarios, including economic indicators such as mainland China and Hong Kong.
The slow growth yield curves, exchange rates and volatilities, are tested component was developed internally and stipulated through internal and external research and circulated a period of reduced inflation across the world.
The to our businesses, along with instructions and results of these stress tests demonstrated that HSBC methodologies for specific risk types.
would remain satisfactorily capitalised after taking Stress test results are subject to a review and account of assumed management actions to mitigate challenge process at regional and Group levels and the results.
action plans are developed to mitigate identified risks.
139 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Managing risk Top and emerging risks The macroeconomic stress scenarios are described below.
Stress scenario assumptions 2013 annual operating plan Scenario Worsening eurozone crisis scenario US fiscal cliff scenario Assumptions Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy exit the Tightening of fiscal policy: eurozone in the first quarter of 2013: effective federal corporate and personal tax rates are debt is re-denominated in new national currencies, increased back towards their 2001 levels: which depreciate sharply from 15% to 50% : federal spending reduces by around US$95bn: equity prices fall by around 50% in the exiting US dollar depreciates by around 5% as economic countries and initially by 30% elsewhere in the prospects for the US deteriorate: eurozone: Federal Reserve supports the economy with exiting countries experience large-scale capital additional quantitative easing, boosting its balance outflows, rising inflation and interest rates: sheet by another US$500bn around 3% of GDP government bond spreads rise significantly in and maintaining that level for one year before exiting countries from 700 to 1,200bps : beginning to unwind: banking sectors in both the exiting countries and government spending cuts and tax increases lead to the eurozone suffer significant losses and credit lower consumer spending and business investment: standards tighten dramatically: and US GDP falls by around 7% below the pre-crisis the residual euro exchange rate initially depreciates baseline: and by around 15% against the US dollar.
lower US demand dampens exports from the rest of the world, leading to a slowdown in global GDP growth.
Stress scenario assumptions 2013 PRA core programme Scenario Global slow growth scenario Assumptions Mainland China suffers a 50% reduction in property prices as an intitial modest price decline becomes selfreinforcing through a deterioration in investor sentiment: mainland China equity prices fall by around 25% and unemployment doubles to 7%: mainland China GDP growth averages 3% per annum in the two years following the crisis: the tightening of monetary policy in mainland China to prevent capital flight leads to liquidity issues: Hong Kong exports to mainland China decline rapidly and significantly: Hong Kong GDP contracts by around 4% in 2013 and 2014 and unemployment rises to 10%: Hong Kong property and equity prices fall by about 50%: weak macro-economic outlook currently facing major advanced economies persists over the next five years: substantial fall in commodity prices triggered by continued slow growth, leading to a reduction in inflation, domestic demand and economic growth across commodity exporting countries: deflation, or 0% inflation, in advanced economies as energy prices decline: and reduction in exports from advanced economies due to reduced demand from emerging markets.
In addition to the Group-wide risk scenarios, on portfolio values, structural long-term funding each major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular positions, income or capital.
macroeconomic and event-driven scenario analyses We also conduct reverse stress testing, which is a specific to their region.
They may also participate in process of working backwards from the event of nonlocal regulatory stress testing programmes.
viability of the business model to the identification We also examined the effect on our businesses of a range of occurrences that could bring that event and our capital position of other macroeconomic about.
Non-viability might occur before the banks and geopolitical events at Group or major subsidiary capital is depleted, and could result from a variety of levels.
These included a possible US default, renminbi events.
These include idiosyncratic or systemic events internationalisation, the conflict in Syria and tensions or combinations thereof, and or could imply failure between mainland China and Japan.
of the Groups holding company or one of its major subsidiaries.
They would not necessarily mean the Stress testing is used across risk categories such simultaneous failure of all the major subsidiaries.
We as market risk, liquidity and funding risk and credit use reverse stress testing to strengthen resilience by risk to evaluate the potential effect of stress scenarios helping to inform early-warning triggers, management actions and contingency plans to mitigate against 140
