Mapping our risk profile credit metrics in our retail portfolios during 2013, while our wholesale portfolios remained stable.
Risks are assumed by our global businesses in accordance with their risk appetite and are managed LICs fell in North America, Europe and the at Group, global business and regional levels.
All Middle East and North Africa following a general risks are recorded and monitored through our risk improvement in credit conditions but rose in Latin mapping process, which describes our risk profile America for reasons outlined on page 17. by category in the different regions and global Operational losses declined significantly businesses.
compared with 2012, although remained above In addition to our banking and insurance risks, historical trend.
The decrease reflected the nonthe risk mapping process identifies and monitors recurrence of fines and penalties paid in 2012 as part risks such as model, financial management, capital, of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate Islamic finance and strategic risks.
These risks compliance with AML and sanctions laws.
Provisions are regularly assessed through our risk appetite related to UK customer redress, principally payment framework, stress tested and considered for protection insurance and interest rate protection classification as top and emerging risks.
There are many factors which could affect these estimated liabilities and For a summary of our banking and insurance risks, see there remains a high degree of uncertainty as to page 136. the eventual cost of redress for these matters.
Stress testing and scenario analysis HSBC is party to legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in a number We conduct stress-testing scenarios across the Group of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business on both enterprise-wide and regional bases, reflecting operations.
We recognise a provision for a liability our business strategy and resultant risk exposures.
in relation to these matters when it is probable that These scenarios include, but are not limited to, an outflow of economic benefits will be required to adverse macroeconomic events, failures at country, settle an obligation which has arisen as a result of sector and counterparty levels and a variety of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can projected major operational risk events.
The results of be made of the amount of the obligation.
Our the stress tests are used to assess potential unplanned provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory demand for regulatory capital under the various matters and for customer remediation at scenarios.
We also participate in scenario analyses 31 December 2013 totalled US$4.2bn.
While the requested by regulatory bodies including the Bank of outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, England concurrent stress test exercise and the US management believes that, based on the information Federal Reserve Comprehensive Capital Analysis and available to it, appropriate provisions have been Review CCAR and Dodd-Frank Stress Testing made.
The reported results of HSBC are sensitive to We tested several scenarios in the course of the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates 2013.
The results of these stress tests demonstrated that underlie the preparation of our consolidated that HSBC would remain satisfactorily capitalised financial statements and reflect our assessment of the after taking account of assumed management actions financial impact of risks affecting the Group.
to mitigate the effect of the scenarios in question.
For further information on our stress-testing and scenario For a description of material legal proceedings and regulatory analyses, see page 139. matters, see Note 43 on the Financial Statements on page 554.
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters and How risk affects our performance for customer remediation are disclosed in Note 31 on the Financial Statements on page 526.
The management of risk is an integral part of all For details of operational losses, see page 246. our activities.
Risk measures our exposure to For details of our critical accounting policies, see page 72. uncertainty and the consequent variability of return.
The execution of our strategy, including the exit from non-strategic markets, the sale of businesses and non-core investments, the repositioning of our portfolios and implementation of revised client selection filters, together with an improvement in market conditions, led to a modest improvement in 41 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
