Risks incurred in our business activities high level guide to how our business activities are reflected in our risk measures and in the Groups Our principal banking risks are credit risk, liquidity balance sheet.
The third-party assets and liabilities and funding risks, market risk, operational risk, indicate the contribution each business makes to the compliance risk, fiduciary risk, reputational risk balance sheet, while RWAs illustrate the relative size pension risk and sustainability risk.
We also of the risks incurred in respect of each business.
The chart below provides a For a description of our principal risks, see page 136.
Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses Other HSBC including Holding Company Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB business Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits HSBC holding company and Accounts services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services central operations management management Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Balance sheet Asset management Asset management management International trade Wealth solutions and Financial advisory Business and receivables Credit and lending financial planning activities Broking finance Asset and trade Broking Corporate finance Commercial finance Life insurance via GB&M insurance and Corporate finance manufacturing Alternative investments Markets investments Securities services US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Balance Assets 517 Assets 361 Assets 1,976 Assets 98 Assets 172 26 sheet Customer Customer Customer Customer Customer accounts 580 accounts 354 accounts 450 accounts 97 accounts 1 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Credit risk 195 Credit risk 359 Credit risk 270 Credit risk 17 Credit risk 23 Operational risk 39 Operational risk 33 Counterparty Operational risk 4 Operational risk RWAs credit risk 46 Operational risk 43 Market risk 63 Risk Liquidity and funding risk page 213, Pension risk page 260, Fiduciary risk page 248, Reputational risk page 260, profile Compliance risk page 247, Sustainability risk page 263 and Insurance risk page 249.
The latter is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
For further information on credit risk, see page 150: The ongoing assessment of our top and capital and risk-weighted assets, see page 298: market risk, emerging risks is informed by a comprehensive suite including value at risk, see page 230: and operational risk see of risk factors see page 135 which may result in page 244. our risk appetite being revised.
Top and emerging risks During 2013, senior management paid particular attention to a number of top and emerging risks.
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks These risks, as at 31 December 2013, are tabulated are integral to our approach to risk management.
define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk which has arisen across any of our risk categories, We made a number of changes to our top and regions or global businesses and has the potential to emerging risks to reflect revised assessment of their have a material impact on our financial results or our effect on HSBC during 2013.
Threats to the global reputation and the sustainability of our long-term economy from a disorderly exit from quantitative business model, and which may form and crystallise easing, which emerged as a risk during the first half of within a year.
We consider an emerging risk to 2013 following announcements that monetary stimuli be one with potentially significant but uncertain may be scaled back, receded during the second half of outcomes which may form and crystallise beyond a the year.
This followed announcements by central one-year time horizon, in the event of which it could banks on the likely pace and scale of tapering together have a material effect on our ability to achieve our with an acceleration of economic growth in the US long-term strategy.
37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Risk overview Top and emerging risks How we manage risk Top and emerging risks T E Macroeconomic and Macro-prudential, regulatory Risks related to our business geopolitical risks and legal risks to our operation, governance and business model internal control systems E Emerging markets T Regulatory developments T Heightened execution risk slowdown affecting our business model and Group profitability Growth decelerated in a number Governments and regulators in Regulatory demands, a challenging of emerging markets during 2013. numerous jurisdictions continue to external environment, the level of Any contraction in trade and capital develop policy which may impose internal transformation and risks flows would affect both emerging new requirements, including in arising from business and portfolio and developed economies.
the areas of capital and liquidity disposals may affect our ability to management and business structure.
Increased geopolitical risk Regulatory investigations, Internet crime and fraud E T T fines, sanctions, commitand ments and consent orders Information security risk T and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Our operations are exposed to risks Financial service providers are at Our businesses face a range of arising from political instability and risk of regulatory sanctions or fines operational risks, including those civil unrest in a number of countries, related to conduct of business and arising from internet crime and fraud which may have a wider effect on financial crime.
and cyber attacks affecting the regional stability and regional and security of Group and customer In December 2012, HSBC entered global economies.
into agreements with US and UK authorities in relation to investigations regarding past inadequate compliance with AML and sanctions laws and we continue Data management T to be subject to other regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which New regulatory requirements is difficult to predict.
There is a risk necessitate more frequent and that we fail to meet agreed deadlines granular data submissions, which or are found to have material gaps must be produced on a consistent, in our plans or the implementation accurate and timely basis.
progress compared with that required by the DPAs and other orders.
T Dispute risk E Model risk Regulatory requirements relating to HSBC is party to legal proceedings models and assumptions in areas such arising out of its normal business as capital calculations and stress operations which could give rise testing could potentially result in an to potential financial loss and increased and more volatile capital significant reputational damage.
Heightened execution risk was also assessed as as implementing the changes necessitated by a top risk to reflect the external and internal regulatory change and the implementation of Global challenges to delivering our strategy at the same time Standards.
