British American Tobacco 24 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Key Group risk factors Overview Developments in the assessment of Group risk The key risk factors that may affect the Group are set out on the The Boards assessment of the key risks and uncertainties facing following pages.
the Group has remained broadly unchanged over the past year, particularly regarding illicit trade, excise and tax and financial risk.
Each risk is considered in the context of the Groups strategy, as set out in the Strategic Report.
Following a description of each risk, its However, in the course of the year, the Board decided to increase causes and potential impact on the Group are summarised.
We also its focus, as a key risk, of failing to lead the development of the explain the activities we are undertaking to mitigate each risk.
nontobacco nicotine market, in order to recognise the importance to the Group of its nicotine business, Nicoventures.
The Group has identified, actively monitors and is taking action to mitigate many different risks.
This section does not include them all, Regulatory risks facing the Group have been addressed in our risk but focuses on those risks that the Directors believe to be the most register for a number of years, and reported as key risks previously.
important ones that the business faces currently.
Not all of these In previous years, subcategories of risk relating to product risks are within the control of the Group, and other factors besides ingredients regulation and advertising and packaging restrictions those listed may affect the Groups performance.
Some risks may be were presented separately to broader regulatory risk.
This years unknown at present.
Others, currently regarded as immaterial, could report presents regulation as a single risk, capturing its various become material risks in the future.
elements, reflecting the Groups renewed focus on an integrated approach to its regulatory risk management programme.
The risk factors listed in this section and the activities being undertaken to mitigate them should be considered in the context of the Groups internal control framework.
This is described in the section on risk management and internal control in the corporate governance statement.
This section should also be read in the context of the following cautionary statement.
Cautionary statement The Strategic Report and certain other sections of this Annual Report contain forwardlooking statements which are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
British American Tobacco 25 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Marketplace risk factors Competition Failure to lead from illicit developing nontobacco tobacco trade nicotine market Time frame Time frame Long term Long term Strategic Impact Strategic Impact Growth organic revenue growth Growth revenue growth and Sustainability reducedrisk products Risk owner Legal Director Risk owner Managing Director NextGeneration Products Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine The Group recognises the risk of not capitalising on the opportunities products and locally manufactured products on which applicable in developing and commercialising successful and consumerappealing taxes are evaded, represents a significant and growing threat to nextgeneration products, including those recognised by scientific and the legitimate tobacco industry.
Most illicit products are sold at regulatory authorities as posing substantially reduced risks to health.
the bottom end of the market and in contravention of applicable Principal causes regulatory requirements.
Draft EU Tobacco Products Directive limits the regulations associated Excise increases can encourage more consumers to switch to cheaper with ecigarettes and barriers to entry are low.
Potential advertising illegal tobacco products, providing greater rewards for smugglers.
restrictions, similar to tobacco, will impact brand building ability.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have In other markets, regulations limit the size of the potential market resulted in high unemployment and or reduced disposable incomes.
for reduced risk products by restricting channel access, marketing opportunities or by imposing excise levies.
Global volume of illicit trade is estimated to be up to 12% of consumption.
In the next decade, we believe that the problem is likely Inability to understand changes in consumer habits and preferences to increase, driven by the increased regulatory and compliance burden leading to lack of consumerrelevant product offerings.
for legitimate manufacturers and further significant excise increases.
Inability to build consumer brands.
Speed to market and speed of innovations is slower than competitors.
Principal causes Inadequate financial and human resources devoted to the Groups Sudden and disproportionate excise increases and widening excise noncombustible business.
Inability to manufacture and supply new noncombustible products Unintended consequences of regulation, e. g. plain packaging, in sufficient quantity.
display bans and ingredients restrictions.
Extra compliance costs imposed on legitimate industry giving Potential impact competitive advantages to illicit manufacturers.
Consumer base, market share, profitability and achievement of Economic downturn.
growth targets will be undermined if competitors are more successful Lack of law enforcement and weak border controls.
in establishing new categories or if advertising or access to all channels is restricted.
Potential impact While considered unlikely, alignment of noncombustible regulatory Erosion of brand value, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
framework with traditional cigarettes would reduce business opportunities in the noncombustible category.
Alignment of Reduced ability to take price increases.
ecigarettes to medicines would increase complexity and increase Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
research and development costs, whilst reducing channel access.
Mitigation activities Mitigation activities Nicoventures, a whollyowned subsidiary, focuses exclusively on Dedicated AntiIllicit Trade AIT teams operating at global, regional, the development and commercialisation of innovative regulatory area and key market levels and internal crossfunctional coordination.
approved nicotine products that will enable the Group to offer a Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
consumeracceptable alternative to cigarettes with lower health risks.
Crossindustry and multisector cooperation on a range of AIT issues.
Appointment of Managing Director of NextGeneration Products and a strengthened senior management team for noncombustibles.
Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
Development of a full noncombustible strategy and business case.
AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory Market rollout plans for licensed and unlicensed nicotine products.
works with enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets.
Vype launched in the UK, with further market launches planned.
Strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
Constant M&A dialogue on potential noncombustible opportunities.
British American Tobacco 26 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Key Group risk factors continued Excise and tax risk factors Excise shocks from Onerous disputed tax rate increases or taxes, interest structure changes and penalties Time frame Time frame Short term and long term Short term Strategic Impact Strategic Impact Growth organic revenue growth Productivity capital effectiveness Risk owner Risk owner Regional Directors Finance Director Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these payment of interest, in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax countries, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies authority in a disputed area.
between countries and between different types of tobacco products.
Principal causes A number of significant excise increases have taken place over the past Unfavourable ruling by tax authorities in disputed areas and three years, for example in Brazil, Egypt, Greece, Mexico, Romania, aggressive auditing and or pursuit of tax claims.
To date, the Group has been able to balance these increases with its geographic spread, and continues developing Potential impact effective measures to address the risk.
Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion of Principal causes management time.
Fiscal pressures for higher government revenues.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Increases advocated within context of national health policies.
Insufficient capacity to engage with stakeholders in Mitigation activities meaningful dialogue.
Requirements of the WHOs Framework Convention on Tobacco Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, and Control FCTC, Article 6 on Tobacco Taxation to move to 70% external advice sought where needed.
excise tax and predominantly specific excise.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
Potential impact Consumers reject the Groups legitimate taxpaid products for products from illicit sources.
Reduced sales volume or alteration of sales mix or portfolio erosion.
Mitigation activities Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing and excise strategies including contingency plans.
Pricing and excise committees at regional, area and market levels.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate.
Annual management review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
Portfolio reviews incorporate potential impact of changes to excise rates and structures.
Assessment of Article 6 impact for key markets undertaken and fed back to the regions and end markets.
British American Tobacco 27 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Finance risk factors Translational Access to foreign exchange end market rate exposures cash resources Time frame Time frame Short term Short term Strategic Impact Strategic Impact Productivity capital effectiveness Productivity capital effectiveness Risk owner Risk owner Finance Director Finance Director The Group faces translational foreign exchange FX rate exposures for Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to earnings cash flows from its global business.
maintaining the Group as a going concern and for sustainably funding local operations.
Inability to access all the Groups cash resources will Principal causes impact the Groups capital structure, cost of capital, debt and equity quality and shareholder returns.
FX rate exposures arise from exchange rate movements against sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Principal causes Potential impact End markets with economies that are closely regulated by the state, with substantial government intervention in foreign exchange Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce markets and limitation on the convertibility of local currency.
volatility in reported EPS, cash flow and the balance sheet driven by translation into sterling of our financial results.
Insufficient hard currency available to local operating companies to pay for imported goods, dividend remittances, royalties and fees.
The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may affect Potential impact key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
Economic losses as a result of devaluation of assets including cash valued or held in local currency.
Mitigation activities Inability to mitigate accounting or financial exposures.
While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact is identified in results presentations and financial disclosures: earnings are restated Loss of commercial opportunities to manufacture and sell at constant rates for comparability.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate Additional costs as a result of paying premiums to obtain volatility where possible.
Mitigation activities Ongoing monitoring of restricted cash, with established maximum exposure limits in affected end markets.
Controls in place to ensure full compliance in the repatriation of funds from countries subject to sanctions regimes.
Projects designed to tackle currency conversion issues in specific markets and reduce foreign currency requirements.
British American Tobacco 28 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Key Group risk factors continued Operations risk factors Geopolitical Risk of injury, tensions illness or death in the workplace Time frame Time frame Long term Short term Strategic Impact Strategic Impact Growth organic revenue growth Sustainability Risk owner Risk owner Legal Director Operations Director Geopolitical tensions, including international sanctions, social unrest, The Group is committed to operating responsibly by maintaining the terrorism and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the necessary controls that safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the Groups business in multiple markets.
people who work for the Group and alongside it, as well as minimising the impact on the natural environment and the local communities in Principal causes which the Group conducts business activities.
The risk of injury, death or illhealth to employees and those who work with the business is a Regional and or global conflicts.
fundamental concern of the Group, and can have a significant affect Terrorism and political violence.
Criminal activity leading to attacks on our people, supply chain or other assets.
Principal causes International trade sanctions.
Failure to assess risk and implement appropriate control measures.
Economic policy changes, including nationalisation of assets and Failure to monitor, assess and implement the requirements of withdrawal from international trade agreements.
regulations that apply to Group sites and operations resulting in non compliance with environment, health and safety EHS standards.
Potential impact Insufficient information, instruction and training in health and safety.
Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal business processes.
Potential impact Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements Serious injuries, illhealth, disability or loss of life suffered by and or the cost of building new facilities or maintaining employees and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution from Reduced volumes and impact on profits as a result of not being able enforcement bodies, and the cost of associated fines and or penalties.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed quickly.
Reputational impact of inability to protect staff and assets from Cost of remediation work, such as replacing or upgrading plant and serious harm.
equipment, rehabilitation and medical costs.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees if perceived to Mitigation activities have a poor EHS record.
Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency sourcing arrangements.
Mitigation activities Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment and infrastructure and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy are provided and maintained.
An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels receive Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario appropriate EHS training and information.
planning and testing and risk awareness training.
Behavioural based safety programme to drive operations safety Security controls for field force, direct store sales, supply chain, with performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
an emphasis on the protection of Group employees.
Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally to identify increasing incident trends or high potential risks that require coordinated action to address.
Dedicated global team to support management of EHS risks.
Key issues and incidents monitored regionally and reported globally to oversee compliance.
British American Tobacco 29 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Regulation risk factors Tobacco regulation inhibits growth strategy Time frame Long term Strategic Impact Growth organic revenue growth and Sustainability balanced regulation Risk owner CORA Director, Operations Director and Marketing Director The enactment of regulation that places the Group at a competitive Mitigation activities disadvantage, against both legal and illicit trade competitors, interferes A dedicated Regulatory Futures team working to manage our global with our ability to communicate with consumers, differentiate our approach to the Groups regulatory campaigns.
products, launch future products, and increases our business costs Engagement coordinated and aligned across the Group to drive a and complexity.
balanced global policy framework for tobacco control.
Principal causes Prioritisation of key regulatory issues such as retail display bans, ingredients bans and pack space appropriation.
Pressure from international organisations, governments and the private sector to pursue regulation which is not evidencebased.
Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust advocacy materials, and regulatory engagement programmes.
Adoption of differing regulatory regimes in different countries groups of countries and or lack of consensus on interpretation application.
Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure decisions are informed by an understanding of the potential Exclusion of the industry from participating in engagement with regulatory environments.
Development of an integrated regulatory strategy, balancing the Product regulation aimed at reducing the ability to differentiate commercial requirements of the combustible and cigarettes through severe restrictions on ingredients and design.
Regulation on the content and design of tobacco products which A Ready for Regulation workstream helping to ensure that increases complexity and cost.
the business is ready for the effects of regulation and its impact Adoption of the WHOs Framework Convention on Tobacco on consumers.
Control FCTC guidelines on packaging, labelling, advertising A research programme established in order to address regulatory and promotion.
Adoption of more stringent national regulations, such as pointofsale display bans and plain packaging.
Potential impact Erosion of brand value through inability to launch innovations, differentiate products, build brand equity and leverage price.
Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate tobacco industry, and also with increased illicit trade.
Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications, leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illicit trade.
Shocks to share price on enactment of regulation.
Reduced ability to compete in future product categories and make new market entries.
Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes in new regulation leading to higher costs, greater complexity, and potential reputational damage or fines for inadvertent breach.
