Business review Risk management Risk management ICAPs risk profile As a leading markets operator and provider of risk mitigation and information services ICAP has a very different risk profile from that of a bank, investment bank, asset manager, insurance company or hedge fund.
ICAP does not undertake proprietary risk in the course of its business and only enters into transactions when executing on behalf of customers or providing customer access to clearing services.
ICAP is not required to commit material amounts of capital in the conduct of its day-to-day business: the profit and cash flows of the business are driven by the level of activity of its customers and do not depend on the valuation of its assets and liabilities.
The majority of ICAPs businesses have a fast conversion of revenue to cash.
As a result of its business model, ICAP is exposed to a variety of risks: strategic, operational, liquidity, credit, legal and compliance, financial, reputational and market.
As a predominantly fee earning organisation, third-party relationships and reputation are central to ICAPs continued success.
The Group remains focused on maintaining and constantly strengthening relationships with shareholders, customers, regulators, lenders, clearing and settlement providers, market infrastructure providers and employees.
The primary risk to ICAPs financial success is adverse impacts on the commission revenue generated from its customers.
Groups business activities Business model is reliant on Risks Global Broking Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Regulatory licences Strategic event Short-term credit exposure to customers in the settlement cycle T 3 Counterparty failure Liquidity to settle trades Lack of liquidity Infrastructure including for clearing and settlement, IT Operational event Market data infrastructure Electronic Markets Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Infrastructure including for clearing and settlement, IT Operational event Short-term credit exposure to customers prior to clearing 30 minutes Counterparty failure Regulatory licences Strategic event Liquidity to meet margin calls Lack of liquidity Post Trade Risk and Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Information Services Infrastructure including IT Operational event Regulatory licences Strategic event ICAP plc 40 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance and risk management framework Evolving risk profile The board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management Our approach for managing risk is underpinned by our understanding framework and sets the Groups risk appetite based on an annual of the risk exposure for the Group, our risk appetite and how our assessment of the Groups strategy and analysis of known and risks are changing over time.
The Groups key risks remain broadly unchanged from 2012 with our The board monitors the risk profile of the Group using eight risk most significant risks remaining strategic, operational and liquidity.
categories: strategic, operational, liquidity, credit, legal, financial, The balance has however changed with strategic risk increasing due reputational and market.
to continued uncertainty around regulation and the inconsistent application of G20 objectives.
This has been coupled with stuttering Our risk management framework is designed to manage and economic growth.
Despite the uncertainty, this presents mitigate the risks that could impact on our ability to execute our opportunities for the Group to provide and expand services that strategy.
To ensure a consistent risk management approach contribute to the efficient operation of capital and financial markets.
globally, the framework is used across all risk disciplines with the following pillars: As strategic risk has become more important in the continued growth and evolution of the business based on the current dynamic regulatory environment, so has the necessity of ensuring all aspects Risk framework of regulatory risk are specifically identified and addressed effectively.
Iterative approach to risk management Operating Process Governance The Group views risk management as a dynamic iterative process model methods and continually seeks to improve it.
The following areas have been of particular focus for the Group and will continue to be so: Governance in addition to appropriate governance at all levels of the Group as detailed in the corporate governance statement, this enhanced stress testing capabilities across all risk disciplines, particularly focusing on the impact of potential regulatory changes pillar incorporates continued fostering of the corporate risk culture.
on specific entities within the Group: Operating model includes the underpinning guidelines and more detailed probability analysis determining effects of market procedures, control environment, and risk department structure.
changes in customer behaviour: Process methods identification, assessment and mitigation of operational risk framework enhancements to strengthen global risk at Group and business level.
consistency: and continued refinement of risk monitoring processes including potential revision of key risk indicators to ensure appropriate Example of risk management Hurricane management information.
Sandy Business continuity plans were initiated on a global basis as a result of Hurricane Sandy, which struck the Eastern Seaboard of the US with devastating force in late October 2012.
The storm surge and flooding destroyed roads and power lines and made ICAPs main New Jersey office and much of lower Manhattan inaccessible for several days.
As well as several other businesses, ICAPs BrokerTec system, the worlds largest regulated venue for the trading of US Treasury instruments, is run from the New Jersey office, with back-up and failover sites at remote locations.
All ICAPs systems continued to operate successfully and key staff operated from preprepared disaster recovery sites.
ICAP remained in close and regular dialogue with the US Federal Reserve and Treasury Department in order to ensure the orderly clearing and settlement of transactions that had been entered via the BrokerTec system and to maintain the operation of the market.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 41 Business review Risk management continued Risk overview The table below is a high level overview of how the Groups risk profile has changed over the past year due to external events and internal mitigation.
This is intended as an indicative summary of the Groups risk profile only.
Risk Rating Appetite Description of change Strategic High Proactive Changing market landscape in addition to regulatory reforms potentially impacting the business model.
Operational High Cautious Greater reliance on technology.
More intrusive and enforcement lead regulation.
Improved processes and employee training to reduce inherent risk.
Liquidity High Cautious Significant mitigation has been implemented but has been partially offset by increased liquidity requirements from clearing houses.
Credit Medium Minimal Enhanced monitoring system infrastructure globally is partially offset by deterioration in counterparty quality given macroeconomic conditions.
Legal and compliance Medium Averse New regulations have been introduced in addition to increased regulatory scrutiny of markets where ICAP has regulated entities.
Financial Low Minimal Profile remains stable with no major changes in operations or appetite.
Reputational Medium Averse Increased due to the continued uncertainty in the regulatory environment.
Market Low Minimal Remains stable as a second order impact risk.
Principal risks Risk impact time horizon The following three risks have been identified by the board as the principal risks faced by the Group.
Each has a different impact on the High Group based on the time horizon see opposite.
Strategic Strategic manifests over a medium time frame which allows for Liquidity management action to reduce the impact.
Operational inherent in the business model, however significant Impact controls are in place to lessen the impact of any event.
Liquidity although unexpected large liquidity drains are considered Operational unlikely, these could manifest themselves over an extremely short time frame 1-2 days.
Low Days Time Years ICAP plc 42 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks Strategic risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk that Group services become The competitive landscape is continually ICAP maintains constant dialogue with obsolete to existing or future customers.
changing with regulation redefining customers and regulatory bodies in order certain aspects of our business and to leverage environmental and changing First order risk driven by external changing customer needs.
ICAP is therefore able to regulators, customers, competitors etc note is the move towards electronic use its unique position at the heart of the and internal governance factors.
trading, central clearing of derivatives and wholesale financial markets to provide and the continued uncertainty of the final enhance services that are: shape of the reforms.
relevant: scalable: ICAP has a material tolerance of this risk flexible: and given the strong appetite to explore the have realistic opportunities for growth introduction of new innovative products and longevity.
and service lines through organic growth and acquisitions and a desire to lead its competition.
Operational risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk of financial losses, fortuitous Trade execution or processing errors.
A control framework exists within which gains, fines or non-financial impact risks and controls are identified, assessed Extended failure of IT networks, systems, reputational, opportunity, costs and monitored.
resulting from human errors, inadequate The Group continues to invest heavily in Internal or external events affecting or failed internal processes or systems, infrastructure to mitigate its own risks.
Formal business continuity plans and Loss of critical staff.
First order risk driven by internal human appropriate remote data back-up and Inadequately managed projects error, system failure and external disaster recovery facilities are available for including new business initiatives.
ICAP has limited tolerance of financial loss as a result of operational risk as ICAP accepts that even after mitigating controls there will be residual risk which could lead to losses.
Liquidity risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk that any part of the Group In exchange traded and matched principal There is a centralised provision of does not have sufficient financial resources business, as a result of a counterparty not contingency funding for Group trading available to enable it to meet its financial fulfilling its obligations or due to timing entities: each entity additionally has access obligations as they fall due.
issues, ICAP may be required to place to appropriate liquidity.
margin or collateral at clearing houses of First order risk driven by internal operating which it is a direct member and at thirdmodel factors.
Second order impact from party clearing providers who act on the potential operational and credit events.
ICAP has no tolerance of financial loss as a result of liquidity risk given that temporary funding requirements are usually for only a short period of time and any funding is typically returned to ICAP either intraday or the following day.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 43 Business review Risk management continued Other significant risks Credit risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk of a counterparty failing in its A counterparty failure may result in Processes and controls are in place to limit obligations.
ICAP having: and monitor potential and actual credit an open market position: exposure including: First order risk driven by external unpaid receivables: and client on-boarding and limit setting counterparty default events which may loss of access to or loss of funds that process based on internal ratings: and create a second order liquidity event.
the Group has deposited with financial regional accounts receivable teams institutions.
monitoring non-receipt of commissions and fee income.
ICAP has minimal tolerance for financial loss as a result of credit risk noting that this credit risk is intrinsic across all business activities.
Legal and compliance risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent legal risk of a loss of legal, An ICAP entity may: ICAP has an internal legal department human or financial integrity, reputation defend a claim after having a loss which acts as an independent advisory and or capital as the result of government through inappropriate or incorrect investigation function and is directed to action, legislation, contract or other laws documentation or responsibility in the both enable and defend the Groups or regulations.
conduct of its business: strategic aims.
receive a regulatory enquiry or Inherent compliance risk is the risk of legal The Group maintains an independent information request as a result of or regulatory sanctions, material financial compliance function which mitigates operational or human failures: or loss, or loss to reputation that may be compliance risk by way of the compliance employee breaches of company suffered as a result of failure to comply risk management framework which is policy or regulatory rules.
with laws, regulations, rules, related selfoperated globally.
regulatory organisation standards and Advice is regularly taken from ICAP has limited tolerance of financial loss codes of conduct applicable to its activities.
appropriately qualified external advisers as a result of this risk as we accept that and professionals.
due to the nature of the complex commercial and regulatory environment in Training is provided to staff at induction, which ICAP operates its companies may on an annual, thematic and on-going basis.
become involved in contentious matters Legal and compliance risks are assessed and litigation and may be required to and mitigated in the processes and respond to regulatory inquiries.
procedures of risk, compliance and audit.
ICAP plc 44 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Financial risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk that the Group is exposed to The Group presents its consolidated Details of the Groups interest rate and losses due to adverse movements in financial statements in pound sterling and currency risk hedging strategy are interest rates or FX.
conducts business in a number of other contained in note 11 to the financial currencies.
Consequently the Group is statements.
First order risk driven by external changing exposed to currency risk due to exchange market rates events.
rate movements see note 11 to the financial statements.
The Group finances itself through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt obligations and maintains cash on its balance sheet to meet a combination of local regulatory capital rules, clearing house deposits and other commercial requirements including margin calls which arise through the provision of clearing services in certain markets to brokerage customers.
ICAP has no tolerance of financial loss as a result of this risk.
Reputational risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation Inherent risk of financial loss arising from Third-party relationships would be The primary mitigation is the appropriate negative perception on the part of third impacted resulting in events such as: mitigation and management of the other party relationships including customers, a significant decline in share price: risks as this is a second order impact.
counterparties, shareholders, investors fewer willing lenders: or regulators.
potential credit downgrade: greater difficulty in hiring and retaining Second order event as a result of the high quality staff: and perception that the Group either had a decline in customer activity.
material, persistent operational defects or was unable to appropriately identify and ICAP has no tolerance for financial loss mitigate its other risks.
as a result of this risk as ICAP builds and maintains relationships of openness and trust with its customers and regulators.
Market risk Overview Potential manifestations and tolerance Mitigation As ICAP does not take active market risk in As a result of providing its clients with Matched principal-out trades are the pursuit of its business activities, this matched principal brokerage and exchange minimised wherever possible and every category is a second order impact of execution ICAP may be exposed to a effort is made to liquidate the position as a credit or operational event which results variety of market risks: practicably as possible.
in exposure to a change in the value of price: Exchange traded business control the trade.
interest: and functions monitor all unmatched positions FX.
on an ongoing basis: issues are escalated ICAP has minimal tolerance for financial appropriately.
loss as a result of market risk.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 45 ICAP plc 46 Annual Report 2013
