BUSINESS REvIEW: managing Our Business risK mANAGING ouR BuSINESS RISk Effective management of our business risks is critical to the successful delivery of our strategy.
It is imperative that we identify the nature and potential impact of these risks, in order to maintain a risk-controlled environment throughout the business.
In this section we explain how we manage risk in accordance with our Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management ouR RISk APPETITE STATEmENT RESPoNSIBIlITIES oF THE Framework.
We also explain in detail the key risks we face, our governance structure for risk, and the reporting cycle that Our Risk Appetite Statement establishes guidelines for BoARD commITTEES we use to monitor and report on risk.
risk management throughout the business.
We aim to The Board is supported in its monitoring of the Risk maintain a conservative risk-reward profile, and the Board Framework by the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
has developed our Risk Appetite Statement based on the The Audit Committees responsibilities in relation to risk ouR RISk mANAGEmENT FRAmEwoRk following four key principles: management are to: In order to establish an effective risk-management environment, we have developed a Risk Management Framework to identify, measure, manage and monitor risks faced by the business.
Our Risk Management Framework provides the The Board will adopt measures to ensure a low level Review the design and effectiveness of the Groups Board with assurance that our risks are understood and managed within appropriate boundaries, and comprises both of volatility in revenues and earnings internal control and risk management system our Risk Governance Framework and Risk Reporting Cycle.
The Board will promote orderly business operations Approve the Key Risk Indicators in conjunction with to guard against a loss of confidence by shareholders, the Board RISk cATEGoRIES clients, employees and business partners Approve the internal audit programme We have identified three main categories of risk affecting our business, and we explain these in more detail later in this section.
The Board will adopt measures to minimise regulatory risk Review internal and external audit reports and The Board will review the risk profile of strategic projects monitor recommendations 1. BuSINESS moDEl RISkS against the risk profile of the core business These are risks we actively manage and are able to measure, control and assign limits and parameters to: The Remuneration Committees responsibility in relation Credit risk To report our performance against the Risk Appetite to risk management is to review the structure and level Market risk Statement, the Board has implemented a set of Key Risk of remuneration throughout the business and assess the Liquidity risk Indicators KRIs.
The Board reviews the KRIs in conjunction impact of remuneration on risk.
INDuSTRy RISkS with the Risk Appetite Statement twice a year.
Taken An overview of both the Audit and Remuneration These are risks we accept as arising from operating in the financial services sector.
For these risks we set a risk together, the KRIs are a balanced mix of quantitative and Committees main duties and activity during the financial tolerance rather than a risk appetite.
They include but are not limited to : qualitative measures that provide an important indication year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Financial institution credit risk of increasing or decreasing levels of risk.
Operational risk Regulatory risk RESPoNSIBIlITIES oF THE BoARD 3.
ENvIRoNmENTAl RISkS The responsibilities of the Board in relation to risk These are risks over which we have minimal control.
They include but are not limited to : management are to: Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and disease epidemics Set and review the Risk Appetite Statement Strikes and civil unrest Approve the Key Risk Indicators ouR RISk GovERNANcE FRAmEwoRk Review and challenge biannual updates from the The following Risk Governance Framework diagram sets out the framework for the Board and executive committees, risk department Non-Executive Director NED review, independent control functions and ongoing business operations that exercise Review and challenge the system of internal control and governance over risk.
risk management Review and challenge capital and liquidity stress THE BOARD testing, including the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and ILAA Individual Liquidity AUDIT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Adequacy Assessment required by the FCA COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Approve the Corporate Governance Report in the Risk Committee ICAAP & ILAA Client Money Annual Report Board 1 Non-Executive Director Committee Committee committees Senior Accounting Review by Internal Audit Officer Committee of risk management and internal controls CONTROL FUNCTIONS Finance Risk Compliance Legal Internal Audit BUSINESS OPERATIONS Internal controls implemented by management 28 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 29
