BUSINESS REvIEW: managing Our Business risK mANAGING ouR BuSINESS RISk continued Client credit risk mARkET RISk At 31 May 2013 we had total available liquid assets ouR kEy RISkS Client credit risk principally arises when a clients total Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial assets including committed facilities of 627.8 million The following section describes the key risks that we face funds deposited are insufficient to cover any trading losses and financial liabilities will change due to movements in 2012: 628.1 million.
For 2013, our available liquidity and the steps that we take in order to manage these risks.
In particular, client credit risk can arise where there market prices.
includes the liquid assets buffer, which consists of cREDIT RISk are significant and sudden movements in the market, due 50.5 million of UK government securities.
We hold the We manage market risk on a real-time basis, monitoring Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform to high general market volatility or specific volatility relating liquid assets buffer as required by the FCA, and it is kept all client positions against market risk limits set by the its obligations, resulting in financial loss.
Our credit risk is to an instrument in which the client has an open position.
in reserve, and only to be used in times of liquidity stress.
The Group operates within these limits by managed on a Group-wide basis.
The principal sources hedging our market risk exposure as and when required.
of credit risk to our business are from financial institutions We mitigate client credit risk in a number of ways.
We only We monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, We do not take proprietary positions based on the and individual clients.
accept clients that pass certain suitability criteria, and our including our committed unsecured facilities.
We perform expectation of market movement.
training programme aims to educate clients in all aspects daily stress tests and regularly stress-test our three-year Financial institution credit risk of trading and risk management and encourages them to liquidity forecast to validate the level of committed Our technology enables us to monitor our market exposure All financial institutions with whom the Group has a collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level.
unsecured bank facilities we hold.
At the year-end, constantly and in real time.
If exposures exceed our prerelationship are subject to a credit review.
Exposure these amounted to 180.0 million 2012: 180.0 million.
We offer a number of risk management tools that enable agreed limits, our risk management policy requires that we limits are set and approved by the Risk Committee.
Subsequent to the year-end, in accordance with the hedge the positions to bring the exposure back into line clients to manage their exposures including: guaranteed phased transfer agreed with the FCA for the Group to hold We monitor a number of key metrics on a daily basis with these limits.
and non-guaranteed stops, stop and order limits, the a liquid assets buffer of up to 100.0 million by August in respect of financial institution credit risk, including: ability to hedge positions, the availability of liquid, tradable 2013, the Group has purchased 32.6 million of additional Our conservative management of market risk, and the balances held, change in shortand long-term credit rating contracts when underlying markets are closed eg 24-hour UK government securities and the Group held 83.1 million consistency and distribution of our daily revenue, can be and any change in credit default swap CDS price.
quoted indices and full trading capability on a wide range of qualifying assets.
seen in the chart in the Operating and Financial Review.
The Group is responsible, under various regulatory For more information, including our risk limits and Further, on 19 July 2013 the Group completed the regimes, for the stewardship of client monies.
These residual exposures at 31 May 2013, refer to note 37 to In addition, we manage our overall credit risk exposure renegotiation of the liquidity facilities with a syndicate responsibilities include the appointment and periodic the Financial Statements.
through real-time monitoring of client positions via our of three banks.
In doing so the Group has increased the review of institutions where we deposit client money.
Our close-out monitor and through the use of tiered margining.
size of the overall facility to 200.0 million and established lIquIDITy RISk aim is that all financial institutions holding client money a longer-term liquidity funding arrangement.
Of the total For a small number of generally long-standing clients, we Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to meet and the Groups own cash and assets should have facility 120.0 million is available for a period of one year grant credit against unrealised losses, with credit terms payment obligations as they fall due.
strong shortand long-term ratings from the credit and 80.0 million is available for three years respectively stipulating that any losses arising are payable immediately rating agencies.
In some operating jurisdictions it can from the facility signing date.
We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have when transactions are closed.
The total credit of this type be problematic to find a counterparty satisfying these sufficient liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements utilised at 31 May 2013 was 0.7 million, representing 0.1% requirements, and in these cases we set low exposure For more information on how we calculate our total and other financial liabilities when due, under both normal of net assets 31 May 2012: 1.4 million, 0.2% of net assets.
limits and seek to use the best available counterparty available liquidity see note 20 to the Financial Statements.
We carried out an ILAA during the preferably one that is considered locally systemic and year, and while this applies specifically to the Groups FCA For more information refer to note 37 to the therefore likely to be supported in the event of failure.
regulated entities, it provides the context within which we Financial Statements.
We also maintain multiple brokers for each asset class.
manage liquidity throughout the business.
The effectiveness of our client credit risk control is All deposits that we place with these institutions are on demonstrated by the fact that our provision for new Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets an overnight or breakable-term basis, which enables us to doubtful debts recognised in the year was 1.0 million, and liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches in react immediately to any downgrade of credit rating status representing less than 0.2% of revenue 2012: 2.3 million, our liquidity maturity profiles.
Short-term liquidity gaps or material widening of CDS spreads.
We do not have any less than 0.6% of revenue.
can arise, however, in special circumstances, due to our deposits of an unbreakable nature or that require notice.
commitment to segregate all individual client funds.
If there are significant market falls we are required to fund margin payments to brokers prior to releasing funds from segregation.
During periods of very high client activity, or significant directional movements in global markets, we may be required to fund higher margin requirements with our brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions.
We fund these requirements from our own available liquidity.
32 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 33 BUSINESS REvIEW: managing Our Business risK mANAGING ouR BuSINESS RISk continued oPERATIoNAl RISk Breach risk The FCA has indicated it will undertake thematic reviews Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due to Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust line into: conduct, cyber, culture and IT resilience.
These inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
of defence to ensure that our processes and controls are matters are under review in the business as a result It can also arise from human error or external events effective in ensuring we are complying with our regulatory Singapore MAS Regulatory framework for margined that we cannot influence.
During the year, the Group has undergone a derivatives: The consultation issued by the Monetary number of external reviews into key areas such as client Authority of Singapore in May 2012 proposed an Our approach to managing operational risk is governed money, which have provided comfort that we are managing increase in margin for non-accredited investors on by the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management and controlling this risk well.
Obviously, as our business a forex trade from 2% to 5%.
To date there have Framework.
We have designed and implemented a system becomes more complex this risk also grows, however the been no further public updates on this proposal of internal controls to manage, rather than eliminate, Group remains committed to increasing its investment in Japan Binary Regulation: These new regulations outlaw operational risk.
breach risk controls as the complexity of the business grows.
forms of binaries which are offered by the majority of our competitors in Japan but not by us, and introduce The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to Change risk a detailed test which new clients must pass before being delivering our strategy, and we invest significantly in IT The regulatory environment continues to evolve and there permitted to trade these products.
Further clarity is infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are resilient.
are currently a number of policy initiatives and proposals still required around the precise implementation of On a monthly basis, the Risk Committee reviews our Key in development that may impact or have already impacted these rules Risk Indicators, which includes monitoring levels of core our sector, as described below: system uptime and deal latency.
We seek to mitigate change risk by engaging with our Financial Transactions Tax FTT : during the year we regulators and policy-makers as much as possible as part To ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent have seen many developments in this area, from the of policy consultations and more generally, by investing and uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete introduction of unilateral FTT regimes in France and in public relations programmes and by ensuring we have disaster recovery solution, which involves a fully-functional Italy, to the attempted Enhanced Cooperation efforts of access to up-to-date information on regulatory change.
secondary site with real-time replication of all systems the 11 member states wishing to bring in a harmonised across the two locations.
We support these systems with FTT with a wide scope.
We have expended significant Expansion risk ongoing business continuity planning and regular testing.
efforts throughout the year to both maintain accurate Like change risk, we seek to mitigate expansion risk by All our IT and data security systems conform to the knowledge of the status of these tax initiatives and to engaging with regulators and policy-makers in countries ISO27001:2005 Information Security Management understand the many stakeholders interests and views.
where we do not yet operate, but where we would like System standards.
It is not yet clear where the Enhanced Cooperation FTT to.
Of course, regulatory change can also represent an will end up, but we are cautiously optimistic that it wont opportunity for our business and we are in talks with REGulAToRy RISk be passed as originally proposed, and certainly not a number of regulators who are considering changing We regard regulatory risk as one of our most significant within the time frame initially proposed.
The outcome their regulations in order to allow retail derivatives trading.
In short, we define regulatory risk as: of an Enhanced Cooperation FTT is very difficult to These discussions are still at an early stage.
assess and potentially ranges from extremely negative Breach risk: we breach a regulation that applies to to mildly positive, depending on the scope of the tax.
In summary, we work closely with our regulators to ensure our business, leading to sanctions, fines, reputational We continue to monitor developments carefully that we operate to the highest regulatory standards and damage and in extreme situations, loss of licence European Markets Infrastructure Regulation: the main can adapt quickly to regulatory change.
We are committed Change risk: our regulators introduce new regulations impact of this legislation on our business is increased to engaging proactively with regulators and industry that make our business less profitable or impossible reporting requirements to trade repositories.
Potentially, bodies, and will continue to support changes which Expansion risk: policy and regulation in jurisdictions we will also be impacted by International Organisation promote protection for clients and greater clarity of the in which we dont operate remain onerous and closed of Securities Commission work on margin for over-therisks they face.
However, we cannot provide certainty that to our business model, limiting our geographic counter trading, but the rules on this have not yet been future regulatory changes will not have an adverse impact expansion opportunities settled.
If these proposals do affect the business it may on our business.
We invest significant time and resources in managing and be some years before any impact will take effect controlling our regulatory risk.
More specifically: MiFID II: we have continued to monitor developments on this regulatory initiative and remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a threat to our UK and European businesses.
We continue to monitor the situation carefully.
If these proposals do affect the business it may be some years before any impact will take effect 34 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 35
