Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 31 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is the responsibility of the ICG Board, which has put in place the following risk management structures: reports of our credit funds portfolio companies, Executive Committees and and coordinates management plans for individual managementBoards assets as necessary.
By chairing both Investment Committees, The Executive Committee the CIO ensures the Companys Global Investment Comprises the managing Directors of ICG, who Strategy is applied consistently across the firm.
each have a specific area of responsibility.
TheExecutive Committee has general responsibility for The ICG longbow management Board ICGs resources, implementation of strategy agreed Is chaired by David Hunter, an independent by theBoard of Directors, financial and operational appointment of ICG.
ICG and ICG longbows control and managing the business worldwide.
management each appoint three representative members, currently Christophe Evain, Philip Keller The mezzanine and minority Equity and mark Crowther for ICG and martin Wheeler, Investment Committee Kevin Cooper and Graeme Troll for ICG longbow.
Is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and Chief Themanagement Board oversees the activities Investment Officer CIO.
The Chairman selects up ofICG longbow.
toseven members among two pre-defined lists of senior investment professionals including managing The ICG longbow Investment Directors and senior members of the mezzanine Committee and equity business.
One of these members will Is chaired by Graeme Troll and is comprised of be nominated as a sponsor member, to reflect the members representing the senior investment specificities of the investment geography, size, professionals and credit and risk functions of nature of the transaction.
The Committee is responsible for are responsible for reviewing and approving all reviewing and approving all investment proposals investment proposals presented by investment relating to ICG longbows commercial real estate executives in accordance with the Investment Policy debt funds.
The Committee also reviews and set by the Board.
The approval of the Board is manages potential conflicts of interest, reviews the required for large investments according to pre set quarterly performance reports of investments, and thresholds.
The mezzanine and minority Equity coordinates management plans for individual assets Investment Committee also reviews and manages as necessary.
potential and actual conflicts of interest, reviews quarterly performance reports of our portfolio The Treasury Committee companies, and coordinates management plans Comprises four members including the CFO, Financial forindividual assets as necessary.
Controller, and Group Treasurer and is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Groups Treasury Policy, The Credit Funds Investment Committee reporting any breach of policy to the Risk Committee, Is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
The monitoring external bank debt and bank covenants, Chairman selects up to five members among two approving and monitoring hedging transactions and pre-defined lists of senior investment professionals approving the Groups list of relationship banks.
including managing Directors and senior members ofthe Credit Funds management team.
One of these Non Executive Committees members will be nominated as sponsor member, depending on the specificities of the investment There are four Non Executive Committees in placeto geography, size, nature of the transaction.
The support the Boards functions: the Audit Committee, Committee members are responsible for reviewing the Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and approving all investment proposals presented by and the Nomination Committee.
Theirmembership credit executives in accordance with the Investment and roles are described in the Corporate Governance Policy.
The Credit Funds Investment Committee also section of this Annual Report.
reviews and manages potential and actual conflicts Our key risks, and the ways in which we mitigate of interest, reviews the quarterly performance them, are outlined on the following pages.
32 Business review: Principal risks and uncertainties continued Business risks Business risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from the failure to meet strategic objectives.
Risk Impact Mitigation ICG has a disciplined investment policy and The amount of assets under management and the Credit risk performance of the investment portfolio may also be affected all investments are selected and regularly The performance of the monitored by the Groups Investment by matters beyond the Groups control, including conditions Groups funds and investment inthe domestic and global financial markets and the wider Committees.
ICG limits the extent of credit portfolio is affected by economy, such as the level and volatility of bond prices, risk by diversifying its portfolio assets by a number of factors.
The interest rates, exchange rates, liquidity in markets, credit sector, size and geography.
Group may experience poor spreads, margin requirements, the availability and cost of investment performance credit and the responses of governments and regulators to both in absolute terms and these economic and market conditions.
Adverse movements relative to the performance in any of the global conditions described above could result ofportfolios managed by inlosses on investments from the Groups own balance sheet competitors and relative in the investment portfolio and reduced performance fees to other asset classes due received on third party funds, all of which, individually or taken to the failure of strategies together, could have a material adverse effect on the business, implemented in managing financial condition, results of operations and or prospects theportfolio assets.
The majority of third party funds currently managed by theGroup are not marked to market and, therefore, market valuations have limited immediate impact on the amount of assets under management.
This could limit the Groups capacity to grow Aum and could ICG has a long track record in developing Fundraising risk credit related investment products for decrease the Groups income from management, advisory The Group may be unable and performance fees and carried interest.
The Group has to raise future investment builtadedicated fundraising team to grow to raise investment funds from third parties depends on a funds from third parties.
number of factors, including the appetite of investors, the anddiversify its institutional client base bygeography and type.
general availability of funds in the market and competitor fundraising activity.
Certain factors, such as the performance of financial markets or the asset allocation rules or regulations to which such third parties are subject, could inhibit or restrict the ability of certain third parties to provide the Group with investment funds tomanage or invest in the asset classes inwhich the Group invests.
Furthermore, loss of investor confidence in the Group or in the alternative investment sectorgenerally, whether because of changes in investor riskappetite, investor liquidity requirements, regulatory and fiscal changes, poor relative or absolute performance of the Groups investment or alternative investment funds generally, or for any other reason, could lead to an adverse impact on the Groups performance or financial position.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 33 Business risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation The Group maintains a portfolio of The level of repayments on the Groups loan portfolio and liquidity and consequently on the realisation of rolled up interest as well investments that has both a diversified range fundingrisk asdelays in realising minority interests could have a negative of maturities and a suitable mix of cash Liquidity and funding risk impact on the Groups investment capacity.
In addition, there paying and non cash paying investments in isthe risk that ICG will be can be no assurance that the Group will be able to secure order to minimise the risk that a significant unable to meet its financial borrowings or other forms of liquidity in the longer term on proportion of its assets would face concurrent obligations as they fall due commercially acceptable terms or at all.
Failure to secure adverse conditions for repayments and because assets held cannot borrowings or other forms of liquidity on commercially realisations.
Inaddition the Group maintains a be realised.
acceptable terms may adversely affect the Groups business prudent funding strategy.
It is our policy to and returns.
The Groups ability to borrow funds or access maintain diverse sources of medium term debt capital markets in the longer term is dependent on finance anumber of factors including credit market conditions.
and to ensure that we always have sufficient Adversecredit market conditions may make it difficult for committed but unutilised debt facilities.
theGroup to refinance existing credit facilities as and when they mature or to obtain debt financing for new investments.
Inaddition, the cost and terms of any new or replacement facilities may be less favourable and may include more onerous financial covenants.
market risks Risks relating to the Group and its business.
Risk Impact Mitigation The Groups strategy and business model are based The Executive Committee regularly reviews General market onananalysis of assumptions regarding its operating thelikely impact of potential changes in the conditions environment.
This includes market evaluations and the operating environment and seeks, when identification and assessment of external and internal risk appropriate, advice from external experts factors.
Significant unexpected changes or outcomes, tosupport their review.
beyondthose factored into the Groups strategy and businessmodel may occur which could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance or financial position.
34 Business review: Principal risks and uncertainties continued market risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation The Group has a mixture of fixed and floating rate assets, The Group seeks to minimise interest rate Interest rate risk which are funded with a mixture of equity and borrowings.
exposure by matching the type, maturity and The Group and some of the Afailure to match borrowings by type or maturity or the failure currency of its borrowings to those of a group Groups portfolio companies or inappropriate use of derivative financial instruments for the of assets with a similar anticipated holding are exposed to fluctuations purpose of hedging could have an adverse impact on the period.
The Groups Investment Committees ininterest rates which Groups returns and financial condition.
In addition, many of take into account the ability of each portfolio couldadversely affect the the Groups portfolio companies rely on leverage to finance company to successfully operate under a Groups returns.
their business operations and increase the rate of return different interest rate environment both before ontheir equity.
Investments in highly leveraged entities are validating the investment and during the life inherently more sensitive to interest rate movements.
Therefore, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the returns and financial condition of the Groups portfolio companies and may even lead to some ofthe Groups portfolio companies breaching financial or operating covenants in their credit agreements or default ontheir debt.
The Group reports in Sterling and pays dividends from The Group seeks to reduce structural currency Foreign exchange risk Sterlingprofits.
The underlying assets in the Groups portfolio exposures by matching loans and investment The Group is exposed to are principally denominated in Euros, and to a lesser degree assets denominated in foreign currency with fluctuations in exchange inuSdollars and other currencies.
Changes in the rates of borrowings or synthetic borrowings in the rates which could adversely exchange of these currencies may have an adverse effect on same currency.
In addition, the Group has affect the Groups returns the value of the Groups investments and any undrawn used and continues to use derivative financial and financial condition.
amountof the Groups debt facilities.
Although the Group has instruments and other instruments on a limited in place measures to mitigate the foreign exchange risk on its basis, as part of its foreign exchange risk assets and liabilities, to the extent that any structural currency management, to hedge a proportion of exposures are unhedged or unmatched, such exposure unrealised income recognised on a fair value couldadversely affect the Groups returns and financial basis.
The Group spreads its derivative condition.
Failure by a counterparty to make payments due contracts across a number of counterparties under derivative financial investments may reduce the and regularly evaluates the counterparty risk.
The Group seeks to transact only with sound financial institutions.
The Group invests only in certain geographies, industries The Group has in place an investment policy Concentration risk andsectors.
If investment in any one geography, industry and robust investment process designed to The Group is exposed orsector becomes unduly concentrated the Group could maintain appropriate diversification of the to concentration risk suffer increased impairment to its investment performance investments made.
if its investment portfolio orincreased financial loss as a consequence of adverse In addition, the Group seeks to increase is exposed to undue market, economic or environmental conditions impacting that the proportion of its balance sheet funding geographical or sector particular geography, industry or sector.
In addition, the Group from non bank sources such as private specific concentration.
sources a significant proportion of its balance sheet funding placements and the issuance of bonds.
Further, the Group is from a small number of banks.
The Group could suffer Further, the Groups Treasury Policy and exposedto concentration impairment toits ability to make investments or financial loss procedures are designed to diversify riskwhen it is reliant inthe event of failure of one, or more, of the relationship banks.
bank-sourced balance sheet funding in on asmall number of termsof quantum and maturity.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 35 Operational risk Operational risk is the risk arising from the people, systems and processes through which the Group operates.
Risk Impact Mitigation The Groups continued success is highly dependent upon the The Group attempts to reward its loss of staff efforts of the Groups investment professionals and other key investment professionals and other key If the Group cannot retain employees.
The Groups future success and growth depends employees in line with market practice.
and motivate its senior to a substantial degree on the Groups ability to retain and motivate In2009 the Groups Remuneration investment professionals key employees, the market for whom is very competitive.
Committee commissioned and other key employees, TheGroup may be unable to retain such key employees or  to review the the Groups business tocontinue to motivate them.
compensation structure of ICG and to could be adversely affected.
The Groups investment professionals possess substantial advise upon appropriate benchmarking experience and expertise in investing and are responsible for against which remuneration could be set.
locating, executing and monitoring the Groups investments.
Following this review, new remunerations Theloss of even a small number of the Groups investment schemes were approved by shareholders professionals could jeopardise the Groups ability to source, at the 2010 AGm.
These schemes are execute and manage investments as well as affect recoveries aligned with the Groups strategy and in ontroubled assets, which could have a material adverse effect line with the appropriate benchmark and onthe Groups business.
comply with the uK Financial Conduct Authority FCA remuneration code.
The Group operates in a number of jurisdictions and its business, The Group has in place a team of Regulatory risk particularly the fund management part of the business, is subject dedicated compliance professionals Exposure to new regulatory predominantly to the regulatory regimes of the united Kingdom thatsupports the Board in meeting its regimes or changes to regulatory responsibilities which includes, and Hong Kong from where core regulated activities are currently existing regulatory regimes undertaken.
The Groups strategy anticipates that it will undertake but is not limited to, identifying the laws under which the Group and regulations to which the Groups regulated fund management activities in other jurisdictions as it operates or a breach of grows and, as a result, will over time become exposed to an activities are exposed and establishing applicable regulation to policies and procedures to ensure increased number of other regulatory regimes.
The FCA is the which the Group is subject Groups lead regulator.
This will remain the case as long as the compliance with those regulations.
could damage the Groups Toassist in this the Compliance team will Group is headquartered in the united Kingdom.
The FCA and reputation and affect other regulatory authorities, havebroad regulatory powers dealing draw on the expertise of local law firms the Groups compliance and compliance consultants in order to with all aspects of financialservices, including the authority to costs, returns and financial grant, and in specific circumstances to vary or cancel permissions identify applicable regulations as well as condition.
assist in the formulation of appropriate and to regulate marketing and sales practices, advertising and themaintenance ofadequate financial resources.
If the Group policies and procedures.
In addition, the Group has in place a governance were to breach any such laws or regulations, including those to which it had not previously been subject, it would be exposed to structure supported by a risk framework that seeks to identify, control and mitigate the risk ofinvestigations, fines, temporary or permanent prohibition from engaging in certain activities, suspensions of personnel or material risks faced by the Group, which includes regulatory risks.
The adequacy revocation of their licenses and suspension or termination of regulatory permissions to operate.
While the Group currently of controls in place is periodically assessed by a variety of methods operates within the relevant regulatory framework, either its expansion to new jurisdictions or changes in that existing including tailored risk-based monitoring programmes designed to specifically framework will increase costs and time spent on this area, and increases the risk of failing to identify applicable requirements or address regulatory and reputational exposure for each of theregulatory the risk of a breach due to the enhanced volume of requirements.
regimes to which the Group is exposed.
