Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES In 2013, we faced an increasingly challenging external Effective management of risks, environment, particularly from changing regulation and uncertainties and opportunities is competition.
Internally, we are reshaping our operational governance framework and implementing an improved critical to our business in order to deliver risk management process, as noted on pages 44 and 45. long-term shareholder value and protect our people, assets and reputation.
The risks facing the business by risk category are: Risk category fide nition Risks Description The risk that we cannot Regulatory Compliance with laws Market conditions identify, respond to, comply and regulations with or take advantage of Competition and Adapting to competitive external market conditions.
product proposition environment Funding Funding availability to meet business needs Interest rate Market volatility impacting Currency performance and asset values Counterparty Loss of banking partner Taxation Changes to, or interpretation of, tax legislation World economic Adapting to economic environment conditions The risk that key stakeholders Reputation Reputational damage Stakeholder take a negative view of the Customer Service Maintenance of customer business either as a direct service standards result of our actions or inability to effectively manage their perception of the Group.
The risk of unacceptable Credit Customers fail to repay Operational losses as a result of Safety Harm to our agents people inadequate or failures in People Quantity calibre of people our internal core processes, Service disruption and Recoverability and security systems or people information security of systems and processes behaviours.
Financial and Failure of financial performance reporting reporting systems Technology Maintenance of effective technology Business Operations Effective operation of business model Fraud Theft or fraud loss The risk that our earnings New market and Growth of our footprint Business are impacted adversely by acquisition and operations development a sub optimal business Change Management Delivery of strategic strategy or the sub optimal initiatives implementation of that Brand Strength of our strategy, both due to internal customer brand or external factors.
Risks currently considered as the key risks facing the Group by the Risk Advisory Group.
Our risk management process is summarised in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 53.
As at the year end, the Risk Advisory Group considered that there are 14 key risks which require ongoing focus noted with asterisks in the table above.
Nine of these are at a level of signi cance which requires regular monitoring by the Board.
37 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 { Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The current principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are as follows: Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary We must keep up to We have highly skilled and Regulatory speed with regulatory experienced legal teams at We suffer losses or fail to Lead Responsibility: developments to Group level and in each of Chief Financial Of cer optimise pro table growth ensure we can remain our markets.
due to a failure to operate A number of legislative and competitive and regulatory changes continue in compliance with all Expert third party advisors provide value for applicable laws and to be proposed and debated, are used where necessary.
regulations, or an external Strong relationships are party interpreting these in Changes in regulation The Group is currently subject maintained with regulators a different way.
or differences in to some challenges over its and other stakeholders.
interpretation can Objective interpretation of regulation.
lead to challenge Co-ordinated legal and See page 19 for further details.
We aim to ensure that of our products public affairs teams, at a effective arrangements practices.
We continue to maintain Group level and each are in place to enable us constructive relationships with market, monitor political, to comply with legal and regulators and opinion formers.
legislative and regulatory regulatory obligations and developments.
take assessed and fully informed commercial risks.
In an environment Regular monitoring of Competition and of increasing competitors and their product proposition Lead Responsibility: competition and offerings in our markets.
Chief Executive Of cer We suffer losses or fail to broadening customer The competitive landscape continues optimise pro table growth Competitor advertising and choice, ensuring to evolve as noted on page 18. through not responding to share of voice monitored.
our product meets the competitive environment customers needs Our Strategy for Growth includes Regular surveys of in market or a failure to ongoing initiatives designed to is critical to customer views on our ensure our proposition deliver growth.
improve customer engagement product offerings.
Product development Objective committees established We aim to ensure we across the Group to understand competitive manage product change.
threats and deliver customer focused products to drive growth.
Our reputation can Group Reputation and Reputation have an impact Regulation Committee.
We suffer financial or Lead Responsibility: on both customer Chief Executive Of cer reputational damage due Clearly fide ned corporate sentiment and the to our methods of operation, values and ethical standards Our businesses continue to achieve engagement of ill-informed comment or which are communicated awards for ethical and effective key stakeholders.
operations and we have seen improvements in the perception of Objective External monitoring of our organisation across all markets in We aim to promote a positive reputation.
the results of external surveys in 2013. reputation that will enable the Group to achieve its strategic In light of the increasing regulatory aims.
challenges being faced see page 19, we continue to communicate our position to investors and other key stakeholders.
38 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary A signi cant element Group and market loss Safety of our business model prevention committees Lead Responsibility: The risk of personal accident involves our agents and annual safety survey.
or assault for any of our Chief Commercial Of cer and employees We continued to make progress agents or employees.
Bi-annual risk mapping for interacting with our in our safety management each agency including Objective customers in their systems throughout 2013 with the mitigation planning and We aim to maintain homes or travelling UK, Hungarian, Czech Republic eld safety training.
adequate arrangements that to numerous and Slovakian businesses being reduce the risks to as low as locations daily.
Annual self-certi cation certi ed against OHSAS 18001. is reasonably practicable.
of safety compliance The remaining markets are Their safety is by managers.
expected to be accredited in 2014. paramount to us and we strive to ensure Quarterly branch safety Safety continues to be a signi cant that our agents and meetings.
area of focus for the Group.
employees can carry Role speci c training and out their work without competence matrix.
Safety management systems based on internationally recognised standards.
Our Strategy for People and Organisational People Growth includes Planning process operating Our strategy is impacted due Lead Responsibility: plans to expand throughout the Group.
Chief Executive Of cer to not having suf cient depth our footprint both and quality of people or Our succession and development Groupwide personal in existing and process has been implemented in being unable to retain key development review process new markets.
people and treat them in all markets in 2013 and plans to and continuous develop key individuals are in place.
accordance with our values In order to achieve development through tools and ethical standards.
this growth we must such as 360 feedback.
Agent stability has continued to continue to attract, improve in all markets.
Objective Annual employee and agent retain and reward We will have suf cient engagement surveys and the right people.
Our global engagement survey depth of personnel to improvement plans.
showed that employee and ensure we can meet our agent engagement has Group standard employee growth objectives.
competency framework aligned to Strategy for Growth.
39 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary Globally we have Agreed standard operating Service disruption and 2.6 million customers procedures for handling, information security Lead Responsibility: and we record, transmitting and storing Chief Commercial Of cer We suffer losses or fail to update and maintain information, supported In 2013, we performed a Groupwide optimise pro table growth data for each of them by formal training review of both our information due to a failure of our on a weekly basis.
security and service continuity systems, suppliers or control systems.
We have developed processes, or due to The availability of Core head of ce-based management systems based on the loss or theft of this data, and the systems operate in a ISO standards.
continued operation virtualised environment and of our systems and are supported by approved We continue to enhance our systems Objective processes, are service level agreements.
and processes to ensure customer We aim to maintain essential to the and business data is as secure as adequate arrangements Agreed and tested business effective operation practicable and that any disruption and controls that reduce the continuity plan for all of our business and to the business is minimised.
threat of service disruption branches and Head the security of our and the risk of data loss to Of ce functions.
as low as is reasonably Business Impact Assessments practicable.
performed at least every two years.
Group and market level governance committees that oversee our service disruption and information security arrangements.
In a backdrop of Binding rulings or clearances Taxation increasing scal obtained from authorities We suffer additional taxation Lead Responsibility: challenges for most where appropriate.
Chief Financial Of cer or financial penalties economies, many associated with failure to We continue to be vigilant and External advisors used for all authorities are turning ensure our interpretation of taxation comply with tax legislation material tax transactions.
to corporate taxpayers or adopting an interpretation legislation is defendable.
to increase revenues, Quali ed and experienced of the law which cannot Tax audits are currently being either via taxation tax teams in each of our be sustained.
reforms or through undertaken in Poland and Mexico.
See page 94 for further information.
Objective changes to We aim to generate interpretations of shareholder value through existing legislation.
effective management of tax whilst acting as a good corporate citizen.
40 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary Our global change Executive Director and Change management programme, Country Manager level Lead Responsibility: We suffer losses or fail to Transformation for prioritisation of key initiatives.
optimise pro table growth Chief Commercial Of cer Growth, is key to Our change programme has due to a failure to manage Standard project delivering our change in an effective commenced.
management methodology Strategy for Growth.
We have engaged a major new IT Effective management partner to help us deliver a more Objective Governance structure in of the initiatives within technology-enabled approach to We aim to effectively manage place to oversee ongoing this programme is serving our customers.
the design, delivery and change at Group and essential.
bene ts realisation of major market levels.
global change initiatives and deliver according to requirements, budgets and timescales.
Changes in economic Treasury and Credit World economic conditions have a Committees review environment Lead Responsibility: direct impact on our economic indicators.
Chief Financial Of cer We suffer financial loss customers ability to Macroeconomic conditions have as a result of a failure to Daily monitoring of make repayments.
continued to stabilise in 2013 with identify and adapt to economic, political and indications of a broader recovery changing economic national news brie ngs.
Strong, long-term customer Further detail on expected trends Objective relationships inform us of can be found on page 18.
We aim to have business individual customer processes which allow us circumstances.
to respond to changes in economic conditions and optimise business performance.
Our 2013 Strategic Report, from page 2 to page 41, has been reviewed and approved by the Board on 26 February 2014.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Of cer 41 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
