Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review P Pr rin inci cip pa al l r ri isk sks s a an nd d u un nc ce er rt tain aint ti ie es s continued The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit Committee The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded twice a year and focused risk reporting on selected themes occurs on within the business to support the identification and effective a quarterly basis.
Additional information on the Groups internal management of risk across the Group.
control and risk management processes is set out in the Corporate The divisions within the Group are each responsible for managing and Governance Report see page 44. reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk management policy This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties and standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.
In addition to summarising the material risks and risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which provides uncertainties, the table below gives examples of how we mitigate an overview of the Group risk profile.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly of progressive technology.
Please see the Review of our business section for further details of A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with changing these products.
market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups competitive The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to position.
ensure that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased market.
competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that its The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the customers want on commercially attractive terms.
value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively to its Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years and the customers.
A significant economic decline could impact The Group makes significant investments in the origination of UK the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain customers.
content as well as acquisition from across the world.
The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated with its individual channels.
Regulatory breach and change: The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK, Irish and European The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the Union legislation.
regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not The Group actively seeks to identify and meet our regulatory obligations limited to: and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: Gambling Alderney Gambling Commission regulation: Gambling controls and processes are in place to monitor our compliance with, and our adherence to, our obligations under the Broadcasting the Group is subject to Ofcoms licensing regime under Alderney Gambling Commission regulations.
We are subject to regular the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 and the Communications Act independent audit by the Commission against the regulations: 2003.
Broadcasting compliance controls, processes and contacts are in These obligations include the requirement to comply with the relevant place in Entertainment, Movies, Sports and News services.
Interaction codes and directions issued by Ofcom including, for example, the with Ofcom is co-ordinated between the Compliance, Regulatory and Broadcasting Code, the Code on the Scheduling of Television Legal departments: Advertising and the Cross Promotions Code.
Platform services processes are in place to monitor third party Please see page 16 of the Business Review for further details of our UK broadcaster access to the digital satellite platform and to ensure that broadcasting licences: this is provided on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: and 24 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Description of risk Mitigation Regulatory breach and change continued Platform services as a provider of EPG and CA services, the Group is Telecommunications compliance controls, processes and contacts subject to regulation under the Communications Act 2003 which, are in place overseen by the Customer Compliance Committee to amongst other things, requires it to provide EPG and CA services to monitor compliance and performance against the General Conditions other broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: of Entitlement.
and The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by Telecommunications the Group is subject to the General Conditions training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 which requirements.
impose detailed requirements on providers of communications networks and services.
The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, but not limited to, competition antitrust, consumer protection, data protection and taxation.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory authorities.
The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences.
Customer service: The Groups business is based on a subscription model and its future The Group strives consistently to exceed its customer expectations, to success relies on building long-term relationships with its customers.
A put its customers first, to understand what they want and to be failure to meet its customers expectations with regards to service could responsive to what they say.
negatively impact the Groups brand and competitive position.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous development and improvement to its customer service capabilities.
The Group has increased, and is continuing to increase the number of contact centres located across the United Kingdom and Ireland and has implemented ongoing training and development plans.
The Group benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be the best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers are The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure to reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, The Group is committed to achieve best in class business continuity such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems or the standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and telecommunications networks on which the Group relies, could cause a robustness of its business infrastructure.
failure of service to our customers and negatively impact our brand.
The Group also organises regular scenario based group-wide business Details of our infrastructure and technology are set out on pages 14 to continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems 15 of the Business Review.
Supply chain: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to operating across the globe to support its supply chain.
support its business plan commitments.
A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate ongoing A significant failure within the supply chain could adversely affect the management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
Groups ability to deliver products and service to its customers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 25 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to provide preserving the Groups profitability.
support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on financial The Group has some exposure to the European financial crisis although performance is provided on a monthly basis to senior management and the Groups net euro cash flows are approximately 3% of total group the Board.
revenues and the Groups practice is to hold less than 10 million on The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and deposit in euros.
processes in order to ensure sound financial management and reporting.
A number of the Groups syndicate banks are headquartered in Europe but the Group does not currently anticipate drawing the RCF.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and providing appropriate protection against foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Cash investment is made in line with the Groups strict treasury policy which is approved by the Audit Committee and sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAm rated liquidity funds.
All non-sterling debt is swapped at inception to ensure appropriate currency and interest rate protection is in place, and trading currency risk is hedged up to 5 years in advance.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with the regulating tax authorities which are primarily HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the safety The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have in place fraud controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, to manage its prevention and detection measures.
The Group is responsible to third party intellectual property owners for The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and in the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms Skys improving broader business process and works closely with law own and third party platforms.
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
Projects: The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure A common project management methodology is used to enable the projects in order continually to drive the business forward.
The failure to Group to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could result in significantly projects and strategic programmes.
This includes standardised increased project costs and impede our ability to execute our strategic reporting and monthly reviews by senior management.
Third party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and for emerging technologies.
Intellectual property protection: The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate protections property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of of our intellectual property and other rights.
This includes, for example, programming content, which may not be adequately protected under the use of automated on line monitoring tools, the implementation of on current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
screen imprinting of content together with an active programme to protect our trade marks.
Please see page 11 of the Business Review.
26 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Description of risk Mitigation People: People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of its Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
The customers and achieve its goals as a business.
Group champions diversity and develops talent through a number of activities, including the Graduate program, Development Studio, an Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business could apprenticeship scheme and a leadership programme.
limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further detail on our people is set out on pages 21 to 23 of the Business Review.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27
