business review business review ove over rv viiew ew go gov vernance ernance fi fi financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation business review risks and uncertainties Risk management process Britvic operates a robust risk management process that has been further strengthened over recent years.
There are fi five stages to this process: Risk mitigation Risk review Risk monitoring Risk identifi cation Risk analysis planning Risk identifi cation, analysis and mitigation planning is undertaken at Risks are regularly reviewed and monitored all levels of the business through functional and operational teams.
by Business Unit or functional management Each risk is assigned an owner at management level who has teams.
The Executive Team review the major responsibility for ensuring that appropriate actions are taken to risks across the group on a quarterly basis manage the risk.
A dedicated Risk and Insurance Manager manages to ensure that the management of these and supports this process and owns the group-wide risk register.
The board review these at least twice a year.
Principal risks Increased competition could reduce our profi tability through reducing the average realised price of our products or reducing The principal risks that could potentially have a signifi cant impact sales on our business in the future are set out below, together with the actions we are taking to mitigate these.
Risk: We operate in a highly competitive market with relatively low barriers to entry and high levels of promotional activity.
There is a Soft drinks market risk that our competitors increase their activity or new products The economic environment could reduce consumer spending enter the market and take market share from our products.
on our brands Mitigation: We have strong brands that show resilience even Risk: Whilst our products are relatively low value goods, they are when under pressure from competitor promotional activity.
Pressure on consumer spending could reduce established markets, we operate a strong promotional programme spend on our products, or they may switch to cheaper non-branded ourselves and develop strategies for growth that are aligned to alternatives.
We also continuously monitor the market and are able to develop tactics to respond to changes in the competitive Mitigation: The soft drinks category has proven to be reasonably environment where appropriate: however in many cases we are resilient and we offer a range of everyday value products to meet confi dent that our brand strength and understanding of the category the consumer need for reduced spending.
We understand what ensure that the strategy we are following is robust.
The diversifi cation the consumer wants and develop products designed to meet their of our geographical profi le also helps to reduce the risk.
Health and obesity debate could reduce sales of our products A change in consumer preferences could reduce sales of our brands Risk: There is currently a high level of media and government scrutiny on health and obesity in our core markets: GB, Ireland Risk: Consumer preferences evolve over time and in the FMCG and France.
Sugary drinks are often cited as one of the issues environment it is necessary to keep up with consumer requirements affecting national obesity levels in media reports.
Despite the fact and tastes and develop our products to meet these.
Failure to do that many of our products are low calorie, negative reporting and this could result in consumers switching away from Britvic products.
lack of understanding could result in consumers switching away Mitigation: We offer a range from everyday value to premium from our products or spending less on soft drinks.
products across a range of sub-categories and operate in a number Mitigation: We offer a range of soft drinks, many of which are low of different markets, therefore we are not reliant on the preferences calorie products containing no sugar.
Nutritional information is of one set of consumers.
We closely monitor consumer trends in shown on all of our products and, in GB, we have signed up to the order to anticipate changes in preferences and match our offerings governments front of pack labelling scheme.
We actively consider to these trends across our diversifi ed portfolio and markets.
We the consumer health debate as part of our strategy development regularly develop our current products and aim to offer innovative and ensure that our product development provides a range of new products to create new sub-categories and generate lower calorie choices.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 19 risks and uncertainties continued A termination or variation of the bottling and distribution A product quality issue leads to a recall and significant cost arrangements with PepsiCo could significantly reduce our Risk: Our products are generally of very high quality and are not business in GB and Ireland high risk products for causing any significant harm, however there Risk: We bottle a number of PepsiCo products in GB and Ireland, is a risk that a faulty or contaminated product is supplied to the including Pepsi and 7UP and this makes up a significant proportion market.
This could result in a costly product recall and claims of our carbonated drinks portfolio in these markets.
At the end of against the company if injury or damage is caused.
the bottling agreements or earlier in specific circumstances Mitigation: We have robust quality control measures and PepsiCo can terminate our right to sell their brands.
processes in place to maintain the high quality of our products Mitigation: We place significant emphasis on developing our supplied at all times.
These have been further strengthened in relationship with PepsiCo, which includes maintaining an appropriate response to the Fruit Shoot recall required during 2012. level of communication between the two businesses to deal with Loss of a key operational site could reduce product availability on-going operational issues.
This is further strengthening through and therefore sales the development of the Fruit Shoot franchise in the US with PepsiCo and the independent Pepsi bottlers.
The addition of more Risk: A severe event could lead to the loss of use of a key site of PepsiCo products to the Britvic portfolio in recent years production or distribution.
demonstrates the strength of this relationship.
Mitigation: We seek to maintain multiple sources of supply for our products wherever possible.
In addition, we review and manage Supply risks the resilience of our sites to significant events and put protection in Increasing commodity demand and pricing could impact our place where practical and beneficial to the business to do so.
profitability Regulatory risks Risk: We utilise a wide variety of commodities in our products, many of which are subject to crop availability and increasing Increase in the groups funding needs or obligations in respect demand from around the world.
As a result of this, there is a risk of our pension scheme that we are not able to source the products that we require when Risk: The required revaluations of the pension schemes may we would like to, or we have to pay more than we planned to for highlight a worsening deficit position that requires the company to them.
In addition, the market commodity prices could fluctuate provide additional cash contributions to meet future needs.
The significantly which could impact on the profitability of our products triennial pension valuation for the largest of our defined benefit going forward.
schemes, for GB employees, will be completed during the current Mitigation: We manage the risk associated with availability of financial year.
supply through a robust programme of understanding future Mitigation: The group pensions function works closely with the requirements, developing new sources and strategic partnerships pension Trustees to ensure an appropriate portfolio is in place to through our Procurement Transformation programme.
In addition, fund pension requirements and spread risk in the most appropriate we ensure that sustainability of prime materials is a key way.
New employees of the company are enrolled into a defined consideration in our product development process.
We aim to contribution scheme thereby limiting future liabilities.
The largest of manage the impact of market price fluctuations through sourcing Britvics defined benefit schemes was closed to future accrual in much of our planned requirements through forward contracts and April 2011 closed to new members in 2002.
This scheme is now hedging arrangements.
partially funded by a Pension Funding Partnership and funding requirements have been agreed to 2017.
20 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 business review business review ove over rv viiew ew go gov vernance ernance financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation risks and uncertainties continued Future regulations that affect the sale of soft drinks may Macro economic environment impact our profitability Macro-economic factors could adversely impact the business Risk: There is a wide range of regulations that we are required to Risk: We have a number of exposures as a result of changes in the comply with, ranging from controlling the content, labelling and macro-economic environment, particularly counterparty credit risk packaging of our products to the marketing of them.
Changes in through our banking relationships and currency fluctuations.
Whilst these regulations in the markets in which we operate could result we are not directly exposed to any high risk areas in the Eurozone, in direct additional taxation on our products, increased cost to we would be indirectly affected through the impact on those that produce our brands or changes to the nature of the product such we deal with and the on the wider economy.
that is not as desirable to the consumer, therefore reducing sales.
Mitigation: We closely monitor and manage our exposure to wider In addition, regulations may impact our ability to market or sell economic factors to the extent that it is possible or beneficial to do certain products or engage with specific consumers.
so, in particular, hedging our currency requirements.
Mitigation: We proactively engage with the relevant authorities IT risks both directly and through a number of trade organisations to A systems issue could result in significant disruption to the ensure we can fully participate in the future development of business over a prolonged period or permanent loss of records legislation.
We also continuously develop our product portfolio and and data if the IT disaster recovery plans are not adequate develop new products in anticipation of likely regulatory requirements.
Risk: As Britvic has grown, both through acquisition and organically, so has its reliance on IT systems to function, a failure of which Changes in tax legislation could impact our shareholder returns could halt production or the ability to deliver goods.
There are Risk: We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions with complicated disaster recovery plans in place should a catastrophic failure occur, and different tax requirements and legislation regularly changes.
however should these prove to be inadequate this would result in Any changes in tax legislation or rates could potentially impact the permanent loss of records and data that would have a significant distributable profits of the organisation.
In addition, the subjective impact on our ability to operate.
nature of some tax treatments could lead to challenge from the Mitigation: The management of our data centre has been relevant tax authorities which could result in disputes.
outsourced to a professional provider with both robust disaster At the current time, there is a risk that any potential sugar tax in recovery and business continuity plans capable of meeting both GB or Ireland could impact some of our products.
our current and future needs.
Mitigation: We have a dedicated tax team, supported by external Inadequate security over the IT network could result in data advisors, who ensure that we comply with all tax regulations and loss or corruption requirements.
We monitor likely changes in these and consider the Risk: All IT networks are at risk of unwanted access which can impact that these could have on our business, taking action to have adverse consequences in terms of data leakage or loss, or mitigate this impact where possible.
We have a broad portfolio of systems failures.
low sugar products that should not be affected by any sugar tax, and would look to minimise the impact on the profitability of our Mitigation: Much of system is now hosted by a professional other products to the extent that it is possible through consumer provider who is well set up to maintain robust cyber security.
We review our security processes at least annually and conduct penetration tests to identify weaknesses and take corrective action.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 21 22 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance ove over rv viiew ew business re business revie view w financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation governance 25 Corporate governance report 26 Board of directors 33 Audit Committee report 35 Nomination Committee report 36 Directors remuneration report 56 Directors report 59 Statement of directors responsibilities Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 23 24 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
