Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued There are two dened benefit schemes Business continuity within Investec plc and both are closed to We have management new business.
Pension risk arises if the various policies net present value of future cash outows is The group maintains a global business and practices greater than the current value of the asset continuity management capability which pool set aside to cover those payments.
to mitigate incorporates an appropriate level of Primary sources at risk include: reputational resilience into the banks operations to minimise the risk of severe operational t A mismatch in the duration of the risk, including disruptions occurring.
assets relative to the liabilities strong values In the event of a major disruption, an t Market-driven asset price volatility that are regularly incident management framework will be and proactively t Increased life expectancy of individuals used to manage the disruption.
Continuity leading to increased liabilities.
will be achieved through a exible and reinforced.
adaptable response, which includes Investec plc monitors the position of the relocating impacted business to the funds closely and regularly assesses designated recovery site s. Dedicated potential adverse movements in the resources ensure all governance processes schemes in close conjunction with external, are in place with business and technology independent advisers.
teams responsible for activating and Further information is provided managing the recovery process.
on pages 82 to 84 in volume The group conducts regular exercises and three.
testing of recovery procedures to ensure that its recovery capability remains appropriate.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from Reputational risk any of our rights not being fully enforceable Reputational risk is damage to our or from our obligations not being properly reputation, name or brand.
This includes our rights and arises as a result of other risks manifesting obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially and not being mitigated.
applicable where the counterparty defaults We have various policies and practices to and the relevant documentation may mitigate reputational risk, including strong not give rise to the rights and remedies values that are regularly and proactively anticipated when the transaction was reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound entered.
corporate governance practices, which Our objective is to identify, manage, require that activities, processes and monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout decisions are based on carefully considered the group.
We seek to actively mitigate principles.
these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management We are aware of the impact of practices and allocating clear responsibility for such that may result in a breakdown of trust and management to legal risk managers, as well confidence in the organisation.
The groups as ensuring compliance through proactive policies and practices are regularly reinforced monitoring.
through transparent communication, 1 accurate reporting, continuous group culture The scope of our activities is continuously and values assessment, internal audit and reviewed and includes the following areas: regulatory compliance review, and risk t Relationship contracts management practices.
t Legislation governance Pension risk t Litigation t Corporate events Pension risk arises from obligations arising from dened benefit pension schemes, t Incident or crisis management where Investec plc is required to fund any deficit in the schemes.
