"Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Integrated global risk management structure Group risk and finance director Glynn Burger Head of risk South Africa Kevin Kerr Head of risk UK Ian Wohlman Head of risk Australia Peter Binetter %JWJTJPOBM BOE HFPHSBQIJD SPMFT MPCBM 6, BOE 0UIFS 4PVUI ""GSJDB ""VTUSBMJB Credit Risk Ian Wohlman Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Peter Binetter Kevin Kerr Gary Laughton Market Risk Mark Trollip Nick Sheppard Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Adam Rapeport Operational Risk Chandre Griesel Brian Johnson Chandre Griesel Shirley Snoyman Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Stephen Chipkin Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Stuart Manseld Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Kathryn Farndell Chris Fintan does not take place as expected, operate under board approved delegated Credit and counterparty with one party effecting required limits, policies and procedures."
There is risk management settlements as they fall due but a high level of executive involvement and not receiving settlements to which non-executive review and oversight in the they are entitled.
In terms of our credit decision making forums.
It is our Credit and counterparty denition, settlement debtors policy that all centralised credit committees risk description receivable in the short term i. e. less have a majority of voting members who are Credit and counterparty risk is dened than three days are excluded from independent of the originating as the current and prospective risk to credit and counterparty risk due business unit.
All decisions to enter into earnings or capital arising from an obligors to market guaranteed settlement a transaction are based on unanimous typically a clients or counterpartys failure mechanisms consent.
to meet the terms of any obligation to Replacement risk is the risk us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
In addition to the group credit committee, following default by the original Credit and counterparty risk arises when the following processes assist in managing, counterparty resulting in the funds are extended, committed, invested, measuring and monitoring credit and contract holder having to enter or otherwise exposed through actual or counterparty risk: into a replacement contract with implied contractual agreements, whether a second counterparty in order to reected onor off-balance sheet.
t Day-to-day arrears management and nalise the transaction.
regular arrears reporting ensure that Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily individual positions and any potential Credit and counterparty risk can manifest from three types of transactions: trends are dealt with in a timely manner as country risk as a result of the geopolitical t Lending transactions, giving rise to a and transfer risk associated with exposures t Watchlist committee, which reviews direct exposure.
The risk is created that arising from transactions with borrowers the management of distressed loans, an obligor will be unable or unwilling who are resident in a particular foreign potential problem loans and exposures to repay capital and or interest on country, or dependent on that countrys in arrears that require additional 1 advances and loans granted to it.
attention and supervision category includes bank placements, Credit and counterparty risk may also arise where we have placed funds with other t Corporate watch forum, which reviews in other ways and it is the role of the various financial institutions and manages exposures that may independent credit committees, assisted potentially become distressed as a t Issuer risk on financial instruments by Credit Risk Management, to identify result of changes in the economic where payments due from the issuer situations falling outside these denitions environment or adverse share price of a financial instrument will not be where credit risk may also be present.
movements, or that are vulnerable to received volatile exchange rate or interest rate Credit and counterparty t Trading transactions, giving rise to movements risk governance structure settlement and replacement risk To manage, measure and mitigate credit t Arrears, default and recoveries forum collectively counterparty risk and counterparty risk, independent credit which specically reviews and manages Settlement risk is the risk that committees exist in each geography where distressed loans and potentially the settlement of a transaction we assume credit risk.
These committees distressed loans for private clients.
10 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Whilst we do not have a separate country We typically originate loans with the t Environmental considerations risk committee, the local and global intent of holding these assets to t Social considerations credit committees will consider, analyse maturity, and thereby developing a hands and assess the appropriate limits to be on and longstanding relationship with t Economic considerations.
recorded when required, to assume our clients.
Refer to our sustainability exposure to foreign jurisdictions.
The local In certain instances we have report on our website.
group credit committee has the authority elected to sell certain assets to approve country limits within mandate.
Management and measurement down and or securitise them The global credit committee is responsible of credit and counterparty refer to pages 44 to 51 for for approving country limits not within the further information.
mandate of local group credit committees.
risk Fundamental principles employed in the Credit and counterparty risk management of credit and counterparty Concentration risk appetite risk are: Credit risk concentration exists when There is a preference for primary exposure t A clear denition of our target market large exposures exist to a particular in the groups three main operating counterparty or group of connected geographies i. e. South Africa, UK and t A quantitative and qualitative counterparties, or to a particular Australia.
The group will accept exposures assessment of the creditworthiness of geography, asset class or industry.
our counterparties where we have a branch banking business.
Concentration risk can also exist where The group will also tolerate exposures t Analysis of risks, including portfolio loan maturities are clustered to to other countries where it has core concentration risk concentration risk single periods in time.
considerations include asset class, monitored on a portfolio and transaction industry, counterparty and geographical basis by Group Risk and the various Credit and counterparty risk is always concentration business units.
Concentration risk can also assessed with reference to the aggregate exist where a number of counterparties are exposure to a single counterparty or group t Prudential limits of related parties to manage concentration engaged in similar activities and have similar t Regular monitoring and review of risk.
economic characteristics that could cause existing and potential exposures once their ability to meet contractual obligations Our assessment of our clients includes facilities have been approved to be similarly affected by changes in consideration of their character and economic, legal, regulatory or other t A high level of executive involvement integrity, core competencies, track record conditions.
The board sets a group risk in decision making with non-executive and financial strength.
A strong emphasis appetite limit framework which regulates review and oversight.
is placed on income and cash ow the maximum exposures we would be streams generated by the clients, third Regular reporting of credit and counterparty comfortable to tolerate in order to diversify party income or cash ow streams derived risk exposures within our operating units and mitigate risk.
This limit framework from lease or rental agreements in support is made to management, the executives is monitored on an ongoing basis and of property related transactions.
In this and the board at the BRCC.
The board reported to ERFF and BRCC on an ongoing manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our regularly reviews and approves the appetite basis.
Should there be any breaches to risk by thoroughly assessing the ability for credit and counterparty risk, which is limits or where exposures are nearing limits of our borrowers to meet their payment documented in risk appetite statements these exceptions are specically highlighted obligations.
and policy documents and implemented by for attention and action.
Furthermore we have very little appetite for unsecured debt Sustainability considerations Despite strict adherence to the above and ensure that good quality principles, increased default risk may arise Overview collateral is provided in support from unforeseen circumstances particularly Investec has a broadly based approach of obligations refer to page 39 in times of extreme market volatility and 1 to sustainability, which runs beyond for further information.
recognising our own footprint on the The relevant credit committee s within Target clients include high net worth environment, our many CSI activities and Investec will also consider wrong-way risk individuals, certain professionally qualied our funding and investing activities.
This at the time of granting credit for specic individuals, high income earning individuals, is not merely for business reasons but products to each counterparty.
Specic corporates, state owned enterprises based on a broader responsibility to our wrong-way risk occurs where exposure to and banks.
Corporates must have scale, environment and society.
Accordingly, a counterparty is positively correlated with experienced management, able board sustainable risk considerations are the counterpartys probability of default considered by the credit committee and members and strong earnings cash ow.
due to the nature of transactions with the investment committee when making lending Interbank lending is largely reserved for counterparty.
In other words, the mark those banks and institutions in the groups or investment decisions.
In particular the to market value of a transaction and the core geographies of activity which are following factors are taken into account likelihood of the counterparty defaulting systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures when a transaction might be approved increase at the same time.
to cyclical industries and start-up ventures or declined based on the outcome of the are generally avoided.
sustainability considerations: Investec integrated annual report 2013 11 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Investec completes scenario tests on its subsidiaries conduct their mapping of credit t 1FSTPOBM #BOLJOH delivers products and counterparty exposures in accordance loan portfolio with regard to the capital held.
to enable target clients to create and with the mapping procedures specified by manage their wealth, private client These tests stress the existing portfolio to the Central Bank Registrar, in the respective mortgages, transactional banking, high allow the bank to identify underlying risks geographies in which the group operates.
net worth lending, trust and duciary, and manage them accordingly.
These offshore banking and foreign exchange stresses include but are not limited to Credit and counterparty risk residential and commercial property prices, t 3FTJEFOUJBM.
PSUHBHFT provides nature of lending activities foreign exchange rates, default rates, mortgage loan facilities for high income impairments and capital usage.
The credit Credit and counterparty risk is assumed professionals and high net worth risk stress tests also play an integral part in mainly through lending collateralised by individuals tailored to their individual the banks capital planning process.
property and lending activities by private needs as well as vanilla mortgage and corporate clients, although some credit products for professional target market A large proportion of the portfolio is and counterparty risk does arise in other clients not rated by external rating agencies.
We mainly place reliance upon internal t 4QFDJBMJTFEFOEJOH provides consideration of counterparties and Lending collateralised by property structured credit facilities to high net borrowers, and use ratings prepared worth individuals and their controlled We provide senior debt and other funding externally where available as support.
Income producing Within the credit approval process internal assets account for the majority of exposure and external ratings are included in the t 5IF 1SPGFTTJPOBM 'JOBODF team to lending collateralised by property.
The assessment of the client quality.
creates innovative products specically portfolio is predominantly made up of designed to meet the personal commercial property collateral.
The internal rating models used are specic and professional finance needs of to each portfolio.
The internal ratings are Client quality and expertise are at the core predominantly medical, dental and used as an input into the credit decision accounting professionals.
This enables of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to and as a means of assessing the risk of these clients to maximise their personal the property market is well diversied with rated portfolios.
Ongoing development of wealth through cash management and strong bias towards prime locations for internal rating models has progressed in investment opportunities.
residential exposure and focus on tenant the project finance, private bank propertyquality for commercial assets.
Debt service related transactions, corporate, bank and An analysis of the private cover ratios are a key consideration in the financial institutions areas of operation.
client loan portfolio and lending process supported by reasonable asset quality information loan to security value ratios.
Fitch, Standard and Poors, Moodys and is provided on pages 36 DBRS have been approved as eligible An analysis of the lending and 37. external credit assessment institutions collateralised by property ECAIs for the purposes of determining Corporate Client activities portfolio and asset quality external credit ratings with the following We focus on traditional bank lending information is provided on elections: activities, as well as treasury and trading pages 36 and 37. services that are customer ow related.
t In relation to sovereigns and Private Client activities securitisations, Fitch, Moodys, The treasury function, as part of the We target high net worth individuals, Standard and Poors and DBRS have daily management of liquidity, places funds active wealthy entrepreneurs, high-income been selected by Investec as eligible with central banks and other commercial professionals, newly qualied professionals ECAIs banks and financial institutions.
These with high income earning potential, selfmarket counterparties are highly rated, employed entrepreneurs, owner managers t In relation to banks, corporates and investment grade entities with credit risk of in mid-market companies and sophisticated debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and a systemic nature in Southern Africa, the investors.
Standard and Poors are recognised as UK, Europe, Australia and the US.
eligible ECAIs A rigorous internal assessment process, 1 Lending products are targeted to meet supported by rating agency information, is the requirements of our clients.
Central t If two assessments are available, the undertaken to analyse each counterparty to our credit philosophy is the concept more conservative will apply to which we may be potentially exposed to of sustainability of income through the t Where there are three or more credit cycle.
As such, the client base has been ascertain their credit worthiness.
ratings with different risk weightings, grouped and dened to include high net Our trading portfolio consists of positions the credit ratings corresponding to the worth clients who through diversication in interest rates, foreign exchange and two lowest ratings should be referred of income streams will reduce income equities.
We maintain a thorough risk to and the higher of those two ratings volatility and individuals with a profession process that reviews and monitors all should be applied.
which has historically supported a high and potential credit risks inherent in customer sustainable income stream irrespective of The group applies the Standardised trading facilities.
These positions are marked the stage in the economic cycle.
approach for capital requirements in the to market daily with margin calls where assessment of its credit and counterparty Credit risk arises from the following necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the exposures.
The groups banking activities: event of counterparty default.
12 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Within the corporate lending businesses, corporates.
In the UK these are usually Wealth & Investment part of a larger facility participating with credit risk can arise from asset finance, Investec Wealth & Investment provides project and infrastructure finance, resource other banks either as transaction leader investment management services to private finance, corporate loans, growth and or support clients, charities, intermediaries, pension acquisition finance, asset based lending, schemes and trusts.
"Wealth & Investment t SPXUI BOE ""DRVJTJUJPO 'JOBODF fund finance, debt origination, credit is entirely an agency business that takes provides debt funding to proven investments and securitisation activities."
Its core business is management teams, running small to There are approved limits specifying the discretionary and non-discretionary mid-market sized companies.
Credit maximum exposure to each individual investment management services.
risk is assessed against debt service counterparty and industry limits, to minimise coverage from the robustness of the Settlement risk can arise due to concentration risk.
Facilities are secured cash generation for the business both undertaking transactions in an agency on the assets of the underlying entity.
historic and against forecasts capacity on behalf of clients.
"However, the The credit appetite for each counterparty risk is not considered to be material as is based on the financial strength of the t ""TTFU #BTFEFOEJOH provides working most transactions are undertaken with large principal borrower, underlying cash ow capital and business loans secured on institutional clients, are monitored daily, and and security."
Political risk insurance is taken collateral or assets used in the conduct trades are usually settled within two days.
There is also of the business, for example, accounts strong adherence to prudent country risk receivable, inventory, plant and Asset Management limits to manage concentration risk on an machinery.
We also provide advances Investec Asset Management regularly ongoing basis.
against cash ow or other assets transacts with well known rated market such as committed income or rights Assets we are involved in are diverse, counterparties.
These are all on an and centre around our areas of expertise t 'VOE 'JOBODF provides bespoke exchange traded delivery versus payment including mortgages, resources, aircraft, credit facilities to segregated funds to basis and exposure is to a movement in equipment leasing, corporate credit, project facilitate investment opportunities prior the value of the underlying security in the and infrastructure finance.
Any assets to institutional cash calls which the fund unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Direct originated are required to be of very strong has on irrevocable commitments.
Fund cash placements follow our policy, as credit quality that we are happy to hold on Finance will also support management outlined above, of only being exposed to companies in their co-investment balance sheet to maturity, or purchased at systemic banks of investment grade requirements sufciently low distressed prices that we quality in Southern Africa, the UK, Europe are happy to hold these assets on balance and the US.
t $SFEJU OWFTUNFOUT makes credit sheet to maturity because of low imputed investments in the primary and loan to value ratios and strong cash ows.
secondary markets for both investment accrual and arbitrage purposes, A summary of the nature of the lending generating annuity margin income and and or credit risk assumed within some of investment income.
"All investment the key areas within our corporate lending transactions are approved in advance business is provided below: and subject to rigorous stress testing t 4NBMM 5JDLFU ""TTFU 'JOBODF provides t 4FDVSJUJTBUJPO structuring and sale of lending to corporates to support financial assets, mostly in the form of asset purchases and other business sale to special purpose entities which requirements issue securities to investors."
"tBSHF 5JDLFU ""TTFU 'JOBODF provides An analysis of the corporate the finance and structuring expertise client loan portfolio and asset for aircraft and larger lease assets, the quality information is provided majority of which are senior loans with on pages 36 and 37. a combination of corporate and asset 1 backed collateral against the exposure Corporate Advisory and Investment Activities t 1SPKFDU BOE OGSBTUSVDUVSF 'JOBODF Counterparty risk in this area is modest."
arranges and provides nancing for The business also trades approved shares infrastructure assets, such as power, on an approved basis and makes markets transport, social infrastructure in shares where we are appointed corporate PFI private public partnerships and broker under pre-agreed market risk limits.
telecommunications Settlement trades are all on a delivery t 3FTPVSDF 'JOBODF debt arranging and versus payment basis, through major stock underwriting, together with structured exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the hedging solutions event of counterparty failure and would t $PSQPSBUFPBOT provides mostly be linked to any fair value losses on the senior loans to mid and large cap underlying security.
"Investec integrated annual report 2013 13 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Asset quality analysis credit risk classication and provisioning policy 3FHVMBUPSZ BOE FDPOPNJD ""SSFBST EFGBVMU BOE SFDPWFSJFT DBQJUBM DMBTTJDBUJPO '34 JNQBJSNFOU USFBUNFOU DMBTTJDBUJPO DBUFHPSZ %FTDSJQUJPO 1FSGPSNJOH BTTFUT For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio past due when it is greater than impairment is required which zero and less than or equal to recognises asset impairments 60 days past due the contractual that have not been individually credit agreed payment due date."
Management however is not concerned and there is confidence The portfolio impairment takes into in the counterpartys ability to repay account past events and does not the past due obligations.
cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed arising out of uncertain future in special mention when that events.
counterparty is considered to be By denition, this impairment is experiencing difficulties that may only calculated for credit exposures threaten the counterpartys ability which are managed on a portfolio to full its credit obligation to the basis and only for assets where a group i. e. watchlist committee loss trigger event has occurred.
is concerned for the following reasons: t Covenant breaches t There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity t An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty t Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: t Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days t Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
"1 14 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued 3FHVMBUPSZ BOE FDPOPNJD ""SSFBST EFGBVMU BOE SFDPWFSJFT DBQJUBM DMBTTJDBUJPO '34 JNQBJSNFOU USFBUNFOU DMBTTJDBUJPO DBUFHPSZ %FTDSJQUJPO ""TTFUT JO EFGBVMU Specic impairments are evaluated Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in subon a case-by-case basis where standard when the credit exposure objective evidence of impairment reects an underlying, well dened has arisen."
In determining specic weakness that may lead to impairments, the following factors probable loss if not corrected.
are considered: t The risk that such credit t Capability of the client to exposure may become an generate sufficient cash ow impaired asset is probable to service debt obligations t The bank is relying, to a large and the ongoing viability of the extent, on available collateral clients business or t Likely dividend or amount t The primary sources of recoverable on liquidation or repayment are insufficient bankruptcy or business rescue to service the remaining t Nature and extent of claims by contractual principal and other creditors interest amounts, and the t Amount and timing of bank has to rely on secondary expected cash ows sources for repayment.
These t Realisable value of security secondary sources may held or other credit mitigants include collateral, the sale of t Ability of the client to make a xed asset, renancing and payments in the foreign further capital.
currency, for foreign currency Credit exposures overdue for more denominated accounts.
than 90 days will at a minimum be included in sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when the credit exposure is considered to be impaired but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new nancing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss t A counterparty is placed in the loss category when the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted, or t Assets in this category are 1 expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benets resulting from such assets are remote.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 15 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued suretyship or guarantee in support of a Credit risk mitigation transaction.
As Investec has Credit risk mitigation techniques can be a low appetite for dened as all methods by which Investec Our corporate, government and institutional seeks to decrease the credit risk associated clients provide a range of collateral including unsecured debt, the with an exposure.
Investec considers cash, corporate assets, debtors accounts credit risk mitigation credit risk mitigation techniques as part receivable, trading stock, debt securities of the credit assessment of a potential bonds, listed and unlisted shares.
technique most client or business proposal and not as a commonly used The majority of credit mitigation techniques separate consideration of mitigation of risk.
linked to trading activity is in the form of is the taking of Risk mitigants include any collateral item, netting primarily International Swap Dealers covenant or term and condition imposed on collateral, primarily Association, Global Master Securities a transaction with the aim of reducing the Lending Agreement and International over tangible assets.
credit risk inherent to that transaction.
Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through As Investec has a low appetite for unsecured debt, the credit risk mitigation Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting technique most commonly used is the agreements have been signed and the enforceability is supported by external legal taking of collateral, primarily over tangible opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the assets.
Collateral is assessed with agreement, the exposures for all product reference to the sustainability of value and categories covered by such agreements the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable should be stated net of any liabilities owing collateral generally exhibits characteristics by Investec to the agreement counterparty that allow for it to be easily identied and for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets An analysis of collateral is subject to credit risk and related liabilities in provided on page 39. the financial statements where: Where a transaction is supported by a bond t A legally enforceable right to set-off or charge over property, the primary credit exists risk is still taken on the borrower.
When applications for facilities to be secured t There is the ability to settle the asset by property are submitted to the relevant and liability on a net basis, or to committee, the following characteristics realise the asset and settle the liability of the property are considered: type of simultaneously.
property: location of property: and the ease with which the property could be relet and In addition to the above accounting set-off or resold.
Where the property is secured by criteria, banking regulators impose the lease agreements, the credit committee will following additional criteria: attempt to match the period of the loan to t Debit and credit balances relate to the the identiable term of leases.
same obligor counterparty The bulk of collateral provided by private t Debit and credit balances are clients is commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial real estate generally denominated in the same currency and takes the form of good quality property have identical maturities often underpinned by strong third party t Exposures subject to set-off are riskleases.
Residential property is also generally managed on a net basis of a high quality and based in desirable 1 locations.
Residential and commercial t Market practice considerations.
property valuations will continue to form For this reason there will be instances part of our increased focus on collateral assessment.
It is our policy to obtain where credit and counterparty exposures a formal valuation of every commercial are displayed on a net basis in these property offered as collateral for a lending financial statements but reported on a facility before advancing funds.
Residential gross basis to regulators.
properties are valued by desktop valuation Investec places minimal reliance on credit and or approved valuers, where appropriate.
derivatives in its credit risk mitigation Other common forms of collateral in the techniques.
Periodically the bank in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, UK will enter into Credit Default Swaps cash and share portfolios.
In addition, the CDS in order to hedge a specic asset relevant credit committee may require a held or to create a more general or macro 16 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued hedge against a group of exposures in one management for the past four years book management together with the industry or geography, in these instances, and non-performing assets have been business units, repositioning some of our the bank is deemed to be buying substantially impaired 48% of the nonportfolios asset mixes as well as taking protection against the assets.
Depending performing Irish assets have been impaired advantage of opportunities that have arisen on the perceived risk, or spread, of the and we consider this level to be prudent as a result of dislocated markets.
underlying exposure, the CDS will uctuate and adequate.
Non-property collateralised Southern Africa in value: increasing in value when the asset lending as a percentage of gross credit has become more risky and decreasing exposures has increased.
The financial year in review has seen when risk has reduced.
Occasionally, the a combination of trends and factors Further information is provided bank will enter into trading investment CDS impacting on the credit quality and in the economic section on positions where we buy protection or sell assessment of credit and counterparty risk.
protection without owning the underlying asset.
The total amount of credit derivatives Further information is provided Core loans and advances increased by outstanding at 31 March 2013 amounts to in the economic section on 4.4% from 5.8 billion at 31 March 2012 to 8.9 million, of which 4.1 million is used pages 26 to 29 in volume one.
6.0 billion at 31 March 2013. for credit mitigation purposes and the Default loans net of impairments have Against this backdrop, core loans and balance for trading and investment.
decreased from 4.92% to 4.34% of core advances grew by 10.2% to R141.9 billion Total protection bought amounts to loans and advances.
The credit loss ratio is with commercial real estate investments 4.2 million 3.7 million relating to credit at 1.26%.
and residential owner occupied portfolios derivatives used in credit mitigation and representing the majority of the growth for total protection sold amounts to 3.0 million Private Client gross default loans before the financial year in review.
0.4 million relating to credit derivatives collateral and impairments increased used in credit mitigation.
marginally year-on-year largely due to a There has been continuing adherence to handful of clients experiencing financial lower loan to value lending and greater Further information on credit difficulty with no other major changes in competitive pressure on margins.
derivatives is provided on general trends reected in the private client page 58. portfolio.
Default loans net of impairments as a percentage of core loans and advances Investec endeavours to implement robust Defaults in corporate loans were higher than improved from 2.73% to 1.89% with an processes to minimise the possibility in 2012.
European improvement in both lending collateralised of legal and or operational risk in the corporates started feeling the pressure by property and the private client portfolio taking of collateral.
The independent of subdued economic activity, increased as some transactions have been settled legal risk function in Investec ensures the tax charges and government austerity and some written off.
The corporate enforceability of credit risk mitigants within measures including Greece, Netherlands client portfolio had a small number of the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in and Ireland began feeding through into defaulted counterparties where the decision which Investec operates.
When assessing mainstream consumption gures, reducing was made to write off the exposures in the potential concentration risk in its credit spending power.
Activity levels for new the financial year in review due to low portfolio cognisance is taken of the types corporate lending in the second half of the probability of recovery.
of collateral and credit protection that form financial year remained subdued due to the part of the portfolio.
The credit loss ratio improved to 0.61% ongoing euro zone crisis.
Credit and counterparty risk There was a decrease in the Kensington year in review The majority of the historical defaults were impairment charge following last years recorded in the lending collateralised by one-off increase as a result of our UK and Other property portfolio and largely comprise a adoption of new UK Regulator guidelines Against a difficult economic background, relatively small number of clients where relating to forbearance provisioning we continued to rebalance the lending development finance was provided at methodology.
The overall Kensington portfolios in line with our risk appetite reasonable loan to values but with no arrears position showed slow steady statement and in particular focussing on serviceability except realisation of collateral.
improvement and the legacy book 1 a reduction in property real estate as a Defaults have occurred when clients have continued to decrease in size.
The Irish proportion of our total loan exposures.
been unable to realise sales to service and mortgage book continued to deteriorate Our lending activity in structured property repay.
Managing certain of these defaulted in the first half-year due to the economic lending remained muted as we actively property developments in order to maximise and political environment in the country: managed this portfolio down.
Exposure recoveries is taking longer than originally however, the second half saw signs of to lending collateralised by property in anticipated.
stabilisation in house prices have started to the higher risk category of planning and appear.
Australia development continued to reduce yearon-year by 14.6%.
Lending supported by The Group Risk division has continued Core loans and advances increased proven cash ows rather than asset value to work closely with the business units to by 10.0% from A$3.0 billion at propositions continues to be favoured.
manage the impact of the increased risks 31 March 2012 to A$3.3 billion at Most property collateralised assets are 31 March 2013.
Default loans net of in the market and resultant pressure on located in the UK.
Our exposure to Irish our lending portfolios.
The key focus of the impairments increased marginally from domiciled assets has been under intensive Group Risk division has been on proactive 1.70% to 2.13% of core loans and Investec integrated annual report 2013 17
