Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued An overview of key risks Risk management framework, committees In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our and forums business operations.
A number of committees and forums These risks have been identify and manage risk at group level, highlighted on page 32 in as described more fully below.
committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are The sections that follow provide information mandated by the board.
on a number of these risk areas.
A diagram of our governance Additional risks and uncertainties not and risk framework is provided presently identied by us or that we on page 82 in volume one.
currently deem immaterial may in the future also negatively impact our business operations.
"The group committees and forums listed below have mandated certain committees and forums within the jurisdictions in which the group operates to support them in their objectives $PNNJUUFF 'VODUJPO ""VEJU DPNNJUUFFT t See pages 90 and 93 in volume one."
Members: Non-executive directors t The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk departments Chairman: Samuel Abrahams non-executive director report to the audit committees.
Frequency: t DLC audit committee four times a year t Investec Limited and group audit committee four times a year t Investec plc audit committee four times a year #PBSE SJTL BOE DBQJUBM DPNNJUUFF #3$$ t See pages 95 and 96 in volume one.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors senior management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Six times a year %-$ DBQJUBM DPNNJUUFF t See page 97 in volume one.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: At least quarterly &YFDVUJWF SJTL SFWJFX GPSVN &33' t See page 96 in volume one.
Members: Executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Weekly 1 MPCBM DSFEJU DPNNJUUFF t Considers and approves the granting of credit to counterparties Members: Executive directors and senior management in excess of the mandates granted to divisional and other credit Non-executive directors have a level of oversight forums on a global basis which is exercised within the applicable committee t Considers the level of acceptable counterparty and geographical Chairman: Glynn Burger group risk and finance director exposures within the board approved risk appetite framework Frequency: Twice a week t Reviews and approves changes to credit policies and methodologies.
SPVQ JOWFTUNFOU DPNNJUUFF t Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Members: Executive directors and senior management acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in which we Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO act as principal and retain an equity interest above Frequency: Weekly pre-determined thresholds : and capital expenditure or disposals above pre-determined thresholds.
