Risk management Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward Strong and effective risk management is central to how the Directors run the business and supports the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board believes that ongoing consideration and regular updates to the risk management framework enables the effective balancing of risk and reward.
The framework for evaluating risk is: Ongoing process to evaluate and update the risk management framework, to consider the level of risk appetite for each risk and the operating Develop and effectiveness of each line of defence.
communicate strategy and objectives Risk assessments Financial and non-financial Review and Risk are monitored risks are recorded in the monitor Identify and regularly by the Groups risk register.
Risks success of Framework Audit Committee assess risks are analysed for likelihood and overseen by and potential impact.
Mitigate risk Required actions are agreed and assigned, and deadlines are set.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 32 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management Levels of defence applied by the Group: Strategic Board 1 Audit Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Nomination committee 4 Operational Executive management 5 Investment committee 6 Legal Compliance 7 External Independent assurance 8 1.
The Board has overall responsibility 4.
The compliance function ensures that for the Groups risk management and that the Board has the appropriate all regulated activity undertaken is internal controls, sets the tone from balance of skills and knowledge within the regulated boundaries and the top, sets the strategic objectives, required to assess and address risk, permissions.
defines the risk appetite and monitors and that appropriate succession plans 8.
Independent assurance is provided by the risk exposure.
The whistleblowing are in place.
the independent auditors and various policy encourages disclosures to be 5.
Executive management identify, assess external consultants and advisers.
addressed to the Board Chairman and and manage the risks identified.
External consultants and advisers or any other Non-executive Director.
support management and the Board 6.
The Audit Committee oversees the through ad hoc consulting activities, the merits of each investment effectiveness of the internal control as required.
proposal and ensures that investment function and risk management decisions are aligned with the Groups systems within the Group.
strategic objectives and within the 3.
The Remuneration Committee acceptable risk limits.
ensures the appropriate incentivisation of Executive directors and staff.
com 33 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management Risk management continued As described further in the Corporate Governance report on pages 40 to 49, the operations of the Group and the implementation of its objectives and strategy are subject to a number of key risks and uncertainties.
Risks are reviewed by the Board at least annually and appropriate procedures are put in place to monitor and, to the extent possible, mitigate these risks.
Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Progress during the year KPI Portfolio company failure directly impacts the Groups value and The Groups staff have significant experience in The Group broadly Change in fair value The returns and cash proceeds from the Groups profitability.
sourcing, developing and growing early-stage maintained its rate of of equity and debt 1 early-stage companies can be very uncertain technology companies to significant value, including capital deployment into its investments.
At any time, a large proportion of the Groups portfolio value may be systematic opportunity evaluation and business building portfolio in the year accounted for by one, or very few, companies which could exacerbate Purchase of equity and The following risks are typically associated with early-stage companies methodologies.
the impact of any impairment or failure of one or more of these Significant increase in debt investments.
that can have a high risk of failure: companies.
Members of the Groups senior team often serve as nonportfolio value driven by Proceeds from the sale of may not be able to secure later rounds of funding: executive directors or advisers to portfolio companies to progress across a number Cash realisations from the Groups portfolio through trade sales and equity investments.
may not be able to source or retain appropriately skilled staff: help identify and remedy critical issues promptly.
IPOs could vary significantly from year to year.
competing technologies may enter the market: Support on operational, legal and company secretarial Some signs of increased matters is offered to minimise failures due to common liquidity and shareholder technology can be materially unproven and may fail: administrative factors.
risk appetite observed on IP may be infringed, copied or stolen: AIM.
The Group has spin-out company holdings across may be more susceptible to cyber-crime: and different sectors to reduce the impact of a single other administrative, taxation or compliance issues may lead to company failure or sector demise.
The Group maintains significant cash balances and seeks to employ a capital efficient process deploying low levels of initial capital to enable identification and mitigation of potential failures at the earliest possible stage.
The UKs recession and subsequent limited growth have had and The Group has significant balance sheet and Some strengthening of Change in fair value It may be difficult for the Group and its early-stage may continue to have an adverse effect on trading conditions and managed funds capital to deploy in attractive portfolio economic outlook and of equity and debt 2 companies to attract capital availability of capital in the UK, particularly for smaller businesses.
appetite in the equity The Groups operations are reliant on capital markets, particularly those in The success of those portfolio companies which require significant The Group operates a corporate finance function Total equity net assets.
capital markets, albeit from the UK.
As the Groups operations, and the operations of the majority of funding in the future may be influenced by the markets appetite for which carries out fundraising mandates for portfolio Profit loss attributable to a low base.
its portfolio companies, are based in the UK, the financial and operational investment in early stage companies, which may not be sufficient.
performance of the Group and particularly the ability of its portfolio The Group raised 100m in The Group maintains close relationships with a wide Failure of companies within the Groups portfolio may make it more companies to attract development capital is influenced by the general February 2014, of which the difficult for the Group or its spin-out companies to raise additional variety of co-investors that focus on companies at economic climate and trading conditions in the UK.
majority is intended to be capital.
Termination or non-renewal of arrangements through failure to The Group continues to consider and, where PoP agreement signed with Number of new portfolio Universities or other research intensive institutions may perform obligations may result in the loss of exclusive rights.
appropriate, enter into new and innovative partnerships University of Manchester.
3 terminate their partnerships or other collaborative and collaborations with research institutions.
The loss of exclusive rights may limit the Groups ability to secure Pilot agreements signed relationships with the Group attractive IP opportunities to commercialise.
The Group has been able to source opportunities with two Ivy League US through non-exclusive relationships and other sources.
The Groups business, results of operations and prospects are at least This could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Groups partially dependent on competitive advantage gained from access to long-term business, results of operations, performance and prospects.
Members of the Groups senior team work closely with Oxford Chemistry contract leading scientific research through partnerships and other collaborative partner institutions to ensure that each commercial due to expire in November With several new entrants to our market, this may reduce our arrangements with research intensive institutions and commercial relationship is mutually beneficial and productive.
2015. opportunities to create new spin-out businesses.
partners, such as Fusion IP, Technikos and Cambridge Innovation Capital.
The Groups track record in IP commercialisation Full access to Fusion may make the Group a partner of choice for other IP university partners institutions, acting as a barrier to entry to competitors.
anticipated assuming completion of full acquisition.
Key: Increase Decrease No change IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 34 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management Were more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
A summary of the key risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out as follows: Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Progress during the year KPI Portfolio company failure directly impacts the Groups value and The Groups staff have significant experience in The Group broadly Change in fair value The returns and cash proceeds from the Groups profitability.
com 35 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management Risk management continued Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Progress during the year KPI Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or an inability to Senior team succession plans are in place and updated The Group undertook Total equity net assets The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and attract, retain and integrate appropriately skilled and experiences staff regularly.
a full remuneration and 4 IP Group share price integrate new personnel could have an adverse effect on the Groups competitive advantage, incentivisation review in The Group carries out regular market comparisons for performance business, financial condition, operational results and or future 2013 and continues to The industry in which the Group operates is a specialised area and the staff and executive remuneration.
Group requires highly qualified and experienced employees.
There is a The Group seeks to offer a balanced incentive package risk that the Groups employees could be approached and solicited by The Group is anticipated to comprising a mix of salary, benefits,  or other technology-based companies and organisations, increase the breadth and based long-term incentives and benefits such as flexible or could otherwise choose to leave the Group.
Given the relatively small depth of its staff as a result working or salary sacrifice arrangements.
size of the Group, its operations are reliant on a small number of key of the Fusion IP acquisition The long-term incentives for all senior staff are in the individuals.
Scaling the team presents an additional potential risk.
subject to completion form of shares in the Group and all executives are shareholders in the business.
The Group encourages staff development and inclusion through coaching and mentoring.
Changes could result in universities and research institutions no longer University partners are incentivised to protect their IP for Ongoing focus on Total equity net assets.
There may be changes to, or impacts from, legislation, being able to own, exploit or protect intellectual property.
exploitation as the partnership agreements share returns regulatory compliance 5 IP Group share price government policy and regulation between universities, academic founders and the Group.
including third party Changes in government policy or legislation may make it unattractive performance.
There may be unforeseen changes in, or impacts from, government for research academics to participate in the commercialisation of the The Groups university partners also maintain close links policy, regulation or legislation including taxation legislation.
This could IP that they create.
with the government to manage their position with No apparent reduction in include changes to funding levels or to the terms upon which public respect to future legislative changes.
governmental support of Changes to tax legislation or the nature of the Groups activities, in moneys are made available to universities and research institutions and research and intellectual particular in relation to the substantial shareholder exemption, may The Group utilises professional advisers as appropriate to the ownership of any resulting intellectual property.
property focused adversely affect the Groups tax position and accordingly its value and support its monitoring of, and response to changes in, businesses.
The Group operates an FCA-authorised subsidiary and regulatory The Group has internal policies and procedures to changes or breaches could ultimately lead to withdrawal of regulatory ensure its compliance with applicable FCA regulations permissions, loss of fund management contracts, reputational damage and these are subject to external review.
In addition, through its normal operations the Group is exposed to a number of financial risks, Key: comprising liquidity, market and credit risks.
Further quantitative information is set out in note 2 to the Increase Groups financial statements.
Decrease No change IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 36 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Progress during the year KPI Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or an inability to Senior team succession plans are in place and updated The Group undertook Total equity net assets The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and attract, retain and integrate appropriately skilled and experiences staff regularly.
Board approval The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 01 to 37, has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Bruce Smith Chairman 3 March 2014 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 37 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Risk Management
