Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT As a global company, JLT faces a range of line Group Risk & Compliance provide about the key issues and opportunities for risks, each of which has the potential to advice, guidance and challenge to the each business.
impact on the achievement of our strategic business: the third line Group Internal However, the directors acknowledge that business objectives as well as providing Audit independently assesses and reports they are responsible for the Groups risk opportunity in the right circumstances.
on the effectiveness of governance, risk management, internal control systems and management and internal controls.
JLTs Corporate Governance Each operating company maintains The Groups risk & control framework Principal risks controls and procedures appropriate to its was extensively reviewed during 2013.
The principal risks faced by the Group are own business and regulatory environment The recommendations included: summarised in the table below.
while conforming to Group standards and Investing further in the Risk, guidelines.
The responsibility for internal Financial risks Compliance and Internal Audit teams controls within associated undertakings The principal financial risks are also rests with the senior management of those Adding further non-executive directors discussed in more detail in the Finance operations, the role of the Group being to to the organisations Boards and Audit Directors Review on pages 39 and 40. monitor its investments and to exert & Risk Committees ARCs influence, normally through Board Revising the Groups risk, compliance representation.
and audit methodologies Where relevant entity Boards delegate Enhancing accountability, ownership authority to their ARCs.
Each ARC has two and reporting for the risks the non-executive directors, many of whom organisation chooses to take are independent of the Group, one of which is Chair of the committee.
The first, A standard framework and principles are second and third lines of defence are used across the Group.
Each provides a focused Mike Reynolds report to the ARC to promote discussion The Group operates a three lines of Finance Director and agreement on the treatment of the defence governance model.
The first line 14th March 2014 businesss key risks, with reference to their the business is responsible for the appetite for those risks.
This approach identification and management of all the allows for open, challenging dialogue risks inherent in its operations: the second Principal Risks Nature of Risk Risk Mitigation STRATEGIC RISKS Economic instability JLTs business is more tied to economic Fee versus commission strategy activity and growth rather than market rates, Natural diversification through Group companies since greater levels of corporate activity drive Regular review at GEC and at Board level greater demand for the Groups services.
Strategic Risks There are risks to the business model arising Board review of strategic risks from changes in external events, our markets Strategic review and planning process and customer behaviour as well as risks Global efficiency initiative arising from mergers and acquisitions.
Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes OPERATIONAL RISKS The Groups core asset is its people.
Therefore Succession planning processes Loss of Key Staff there is a risk that the organisation may no Effective appraisal and development programmes longer be able to attract and retain market Robust contracts of employment leading talent.
Effective remuneration strategies Business Interruption The Group operates out of 115 offices in 39 Dedicated Group Business Continuity Management territories across the world, each with a unique function local environment.
There is a risk of a business Detailed Group business continuity policy and interruption due to a large external event.
procedures Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans The JLT businesses are reliant on the ability to Detailed IT policy and procedures in place Loss of IT Environment process its transactions on behalf of its clients.
Strong governance procedures over IT outsourcing and Risks arising from non-performance of an IT service level agreements in place supplier, malicious act, cyber crime and staff Monitoring of compliance with Group IT security policy not following group IT policies and procedures.
and service level agreements Limits of authority in place.
Annual IT Disaster Recovery Plan test by each business 41 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Principal Risks Nature of Risk Risk Mitigation Intermediaries and pension administrators Group Information Security Policy Information Security retain confidential data in the normal course of Dedicated information risk and data protection functions business.
Risk of loss of records, breach of Risk based monitoring and reviews performed by Group confidentiality or inadequate security measures Information Security Officer and Internal Audit need to be managed.
Intermediaries run a risk of incurring a loss if Common operating procedures and compliance policy Errors & Omissions the operating procedures in place across the Continuous training in errors and omissions avoidance Group are not complied with or alleged Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring negligence in provision of services advice Strong procedural and systems controls including becomes apparent.
workflow management Regular and ongoing quality assurance programmes Professional indemnity insurance programme The JLT Group operates in a regulated Common operating procedures and compliance policy Regulatory Sanctions environment in many jurisdictions across the Financial Crime Regular sanctions and third party payments screening world.
Risks arise from non-compliance with or programme misinterpretation of local and international Continuous staff training programmes regulations and failure to meet regulatory Central and regional risk and compliance resource standards.
FINANCIAL RISKS Capital Risk and Risks arising from an inability to maintain an Monthly management reviews of Group balance sheet Liquidity efficient capital structure and ensure an Management of refinancing and liquidity risk including optimal cost of capital.
maintenance of adequate, committed credit facilities Compliance with regulatory minimum capital resources and regular stress testing Foreign Currency The Group operates in 39 territories and incurs Prudent management of currency exposures through the foreign exchange exposures in the normal maintenance of rolling hedging programme using forward course of business.
foreign currency transactions and derivatives where appropriate Regular review and sensitivity analysis Risk of adverse impact on earnings from net Prudent use of interest rate hedging instruments where Interest Rate Risk exposure to changes in interest rates.
appropriate to hedge future interest rate exposures Counterparty Risk There is a risk to JLT if there is a failure of a Board approved investment and counterparty policy to: key counterparty resulting in a loss of own - limit the concentration of funds and exposure with any cash, fiduciary funds, investments & deposits, one party derivative assets and trade receivables.
- define cash and investments policy Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation levels and compliance with applicable regulation Risk of adverse impact on the Balance Sheet Regular monitoring and reporting of scheme asset Defined Benefit Pension and Income Statement as a consequence of performance and liability positions Scheme increase in Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Appropriate scheme investment strategy and deficit.
diversification Rolling triennial actuarial valuations and regular trustee funding updates Appropriate deficit funding basis Regular review of long term fide-risking strategy Regular scheme membership data verification Effective independent trustee governance Regular review of employee covenant 42
