Risks and Risk Management Risk is the potential for events to occur that can create either threats to success or opportunities for benefit.
Threats to the success of the business could adversely impact the Groups business model, reputation or financial standing.
Alternatively, under a well-formed risk management framework, potential risks can be identied in advance and converted into opportunities.
The Prospectus details all the potential risks that could occur in a PPP project.
In the normal course of business, each asset will have a rigorous risk management framework with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated regularly and approved by its board.
The purpose of JLIFs risk management policies and procedures is not to eliminate risk completely, as this is not possible: rather it is to reduce the likelihood of occurrence and to ensure that we are adequately prepared to deal with risks so as to minimise their impact should they materialise.
Risk identication and monitoring JLIF has a comprehensive risk management framework and risk register that assesses a the probability of each identied risk materialising: and b the impact it may have on JLIF.
This is captured in a rating system assigning a 1, 2 or 3 to the probability and a 1, 2 or 3 to the magnitude of the impact with 1 being the least probable smallest impact and 3 being the most probable greatest impact.
These values representing likelihood and impact are multiplied together and used to determine the overall severity of the risk.
The following red-amber-green system is used to prioritise and focus JLIFs risk management policies and procedures: s Red score 6 9 very likely to occur or has occurred in the recent past: significant potential impact on the rms stakeholders, reputation and or profits if the risk occurred.
s Amber score 3 5 likely to occur, with a medium reputational and or financial impact if the risk did occur.
s Green score 1 2 unlikely to occur and only minor impact should the risk materialise.
Mitigation controls and management factors have been developed with respect to each risk identied so as first to reduce the likelihood such risk occurring and secondly to minimize the severity of its impact in the case that it does occur.
The risk register is a live document that is reviewed and updated regularly as new risks emerge and existing risks change.
The risk register is presented to the Board at each Board meeting for consideration and approval.
Each of the underlying projects are overseen by experienced general managers who report to their individual SPV boards.
The general managers are based on site and maintain strong relationships between clients, sub-contractors and other partners.
This ensures effective management of potential risks.
JLIFs risk register covers five main areas of risk: Newcastle Hospital 1.
Strategic, economic and external: Location United Kingdom 2. operational, Business, Processes and Resourcing: The project involves the transfer of all of Newcastles acute healthcare 3.
Financial and Accounting: services from the Newcastle 4.
Compliance and legal: and General Hospital to modern, state-of-the-art facilities at the 5.
Royal Victoria Inrmary and the Freeman Hospital.
Each of these areas are summarised in the table below, followed by a detailed discussion of the risks.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 09.
Post-Mitigation The UP is used by the SPV to pay for operational costs first, Risk Risk Rating then to service senior debt and nally for equity.
Strategic, Economic Currency s Finance costs are xed at the time of the contract being signed and External through the use of interest rate swaps and xed rate loans Ination and interest rates s 3 thereby eradicating an interest rate risk in this respect.
Given finance costs are xed, it is normal therefore for the portion of s Acquisitions and pipeline the UP related to these costs not to be linked to an ination index s Funding of acquisitions and but rather to also be xed.
future equity raising Operational costs on the other hand are affected by ination and Competitors s this is reected in the UP received from the client.
A proportionate s Future of UK capital spending amount of the UP corresponding to these costs is index-linked meaning the amount received increases decreases in line with Operational, Operational obligations s ination.
This results in a natural hedge, removing the need for Business, Processes use of derivatives to mitigate ination risk.
In a minority of cases and Resourcing where the SPV has index-linked cash ows that fall outside of the Financial and s Financial natural hedge, the ination risk is hedged using ination swaps.
Accounting For UK projects linked to RPI or RPIX, the assumed level of s Gilt rates and discount rates ination used by JLIF in its valuation of its Portfolio is 2.75%.
New accounting standards s This is regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains reasonable and provides JLIF with relative protection against ination.
Compliance Regulatory s and Legal The Company has some interest rate exposure, through its own Information Cyber risk s cash deposits and those cash deposits in the projects.
JLIFs own Technology cash deposits are generally minimal given JLIFs raises capital to invest and therefore has very little cash drag.
The deposits within Asset Specic Investment risk s the project companies are much more sizeable and we work with the lending institutions to ensure the best available rates are achieved.
Strategic, Economic and External Currency Risk Acquisitions and Pipeline JLIFs Portfolio currently comprises five assets that are located JLIFs intention is to grow the Portfolio by identifying value outside of the UK and are therefore exposed to currency risk enhancement opportunities within our existing assets and by i. e. movements in exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2013 the acquisition of further assets.
However, there is a risk that a these assets represented 15.0% of the Portfolio Value and by pipeline of acquisitions does not materialise.
In this respect, JLIF currency as follows: benets from two first offer agreements with John Laing giving 10.4% Canadian Dollar it the right of first offer to a pipeline of infrastructure projects, valued by John Laing at approximately 400 million over the next 4.6% Euro six years.
These are assets that have already reached financial While this mix of currencies provides JLIF with diversication close or preferred bidder status or have recently become benets, the Net Asset Value NAV of these assets will vary operational and are considered suitable by JLCM for addition in Sterling terms due to uctuations in current exchange rates to JLIFs Portfolio.
The original First Offer Agreement, signed at being applied to all future years of income from those currency IPO, with John Laing was recently amended, further details of denominated projects.
Over the long term, the intention is not which can be found on pages 16 and 17 of this Annual Report.
to hedge this exposure on the Balance Sheet.
However, over Furthermore, JLIF is already seeking opportunities for the longer the short term, cash distributions arising from these assets will term, three to five years, both in the UK and overseas.
be monitored and hedged if appropriate.
Furthermore, JLIFs There is a risk that John Laing will be sold and that this impacts multi-currency revolving credit facility affords the possibility of the manager.
If John Laing is sold it is expected to be sold as a borrowing in a foreign currency, thereby acting as a partial hedge.
going concern and therefore the first offer agreements will transfer to a new owner.
ination and interest Rate Risk JLIF actively reviews its acquisition strategy and seeks to engage The underlying assets in the Portfolio have some exposure to in acquisitions from both John Laing and the wider market.
Each asset receives a Unitary Payment UP from a The increasing number of third party acquisitions has seen JLIFs public sector client.
This is paid every year from the end of credibility as a buyer and track record increase and has further construction until the end of the concession period which is broadened its diversication of co-shareholders, contractors, typically around 25 years.
clients, sectors and geographical markets.
The UP is calculated to cover the following costs incurred by the It is JLIFs experience in 2013 that the secondary PPP market, SPV in delivering the contract: both in the UK and elsewhere, was very active and this is expected Financing costs bank debt or bond finance is used to meet to continue in the short to medium term.
Please refer to the the costs of construction and is then repaid over the course Outlook section of the Investment Adviser Report for further of the concession period once the project is operational : information on expectations regarding future market activity.
Operational costs for maintaining the asset including soft services, such as cleaning and catering, and hard services, such as the replacement of roofs, lifts, ooring etc.
: and 3 Some interest rate risk is retained by the SPV in relation to deposit Cost of equity i. e. the expected return of the SPV shareholders.
Funding of Acquisitions and Future equity Raising Furthermore, a growing source of UK deal ow is infrastructure funds with nite lives reaching maturity and seeking to realise There is a risk that JLIF is unable to achieve its stated ambition an exit for investors.
Given the proliferation of this type of fund of growing the Portfolio by acquiring new assets due to a lack of in the mid-2000s and their typical investment horizon, JLIF funding, both corporate debt and equity capital from investors.
anticipates several portfolios coming to market over the next JLIF has a three year 150 million revolving credit facility.
provides JLIF with available short term finance than can be The medium to long term impact on the secondary market is accessed very quickly to pursue acquisitions.
The facility expires less clear.
However, there are a growing number of overseas in February 2016 and JLIF will seek to renance prior to this to jurisdictions in which infrastructure is procured using a PPP meet going concern requirements.
JLIF uses this facility to model similar to that used in the UK lending themselves to finance acquisitions prior to raising capital, thus mitigating the natural diversication by UK dominated infrastructure funds.
risk of not having adequate funding for growth.
Indeed, the secondary market in many of these jurisdictions Investors have been supportive of JLIFs capital raising activities is much less developed than that in the UK presenting less to date, with the most recent capital raise once again being competition thereby offering attractive investment opportunities.
oversubscribed and at the top of the pricing range.
This demonstrates the attractiveness of JLIFs strategy of raising equity Operational, Business, Processing and Resourcing to match an acquisition programme.
This, as well as successful JLIF invests in projects in which much of the risk is either capital raises by other listed infrastructure funds, confirms the retained by the public sector counterparty or passed down to appetite investors have for infrastructure as an asset class.
However, in all cases, some risk is retained by the SPV as identied in the Prospectus.
JLIF outsourcing the Competitors management of the project SPVs to third party operators who JLIF, in pursuing investment opportunities and in seeking to raise provide experienced professionals who, in many cases, have further capital, competes against a number of other listed and worked on the project for many years.
Such professionals have private infrastructure funds.
JLIF differentiates itself from its peer excellent relationships with clients and co-shareholders and are group in a number of ways including its low cost of operation, often based on site.
Risks can be mitigated such that the projects the operational experience and dedicated nature of the Investment are minimally affected, if at all.
Adviser, its aim to only raise capital against committed In the event that a single project should suffer from a material investments and having two offer agreements with John Laing.
issue, the diversity represented by JLIFs Portfolio of 52 assets In early 2014, JLIF amended its Investment Policy to include a means that the impact on the Portfolio as a whole is minimised.
category comprising up to 10% of Total Assets calculated at the All of the projects in the Portfolio have obligations to provide time of investment for infrastructure assets that are not necessarily operations and maintenance services to maintain the government-backed or classied as PPP assets but that generally infrastructure for the length of the concession period.
The project have the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
SPVs, in which JLIF invests, outsources the provision of these Should JLIF wish to expand its overseas investments there is services to experienced facilities management and management a risk, in being a non-domiciled investor, that it may be at a services companies.
JLIF ensures that a diverse range of competitive disadvantage when bidding for assets, particularly providers are used to supply these services to its projects such from a tax perspective.
This could potentially limit JLIF's ability that failure of any single service provider has a minimal impact to increase the geographic diversication of its Portfolio.
JLIF on the Portfolio as a whole.
The following two charts show the will procure specialist tax advice with respect to acquisition diversity of facilities management companies and management structuring such that any competitive disadvantage is either services companies providing services to projects in which JLIF minimised or eradicated entirely.
There is a risk of John Laing is an investor.
launching another fund, which is a competitor to JLIF.
To mitigate the impact of this risk, the current management team is dedicated Spread of Facilities management Contracts to JLIF through a written commitment and has a set of rules and procedures in place to manage any potential conicts that 2 10 may arise.
uk Future of Capital Spending 7 3 Under its Investment Policy, JLIF is required to hold at least 50% 2 of its Portfolio by value in UK assets.
JLIF therefore has a 1 5 1 significant interest in the future of UK infrastructure spending.
There is a risk that spending is either reduced or stopped 4 3 altogether or that the model used to procure infrastructure offers 2 1 3 3 a risk allocation that would not allow JLIF to invest under its 5 1 1 2 1 1 investment policy.
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Should either of the above risks materialise, the immediate impact on JLIF and the secondary PPP market would be small as there is sufficient deal ow in the UK market to sustain this space in the short term, as primary participants seek to recycle equity to reinvest in new infrastructure projects.
Johnson Controls Sodexo Amey Seddon Pinnacle Housing Rydon Maintenance Reliance Skanska Lemcon Oy Black and MacDonald Serco Hyde Housing Balfour Beatty ISS Mediclean Thales Carillion Sir Robert McAlpine Vinci Interserve NCS Caerphilly SPIE Matthew Hall United House Strukton Brookeld Adactus Housing Kier Mitie Bouygues Compass Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 11.
Spread of management Contracts JLIF is a non-EU Alternative Investment Fund AIF and JLIF is self-managed, meaning that the AIFM Alternative Investment Fund Manager and AIF are the same entity.
The Board 28 performs the functions under the directive, complying with the transparency requirements in terms of disclosures in financial statements and regular reporting to the regulator.
As a result, JLIF registered with the FCA in August 2013 as a non-EU AIF following legal advice procured by the Board.
The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA requires financial institutions to obtain information about every holder 12 of every account across all of their afliated entities, in order to 3 1 comply with verication and due diligence procedures, to identify 2 1 2 1 US accounts and to report annually with respect to any US account.
1 2 1 1 1 JLIF has already applied for registration for FATCA Model 1 Intergovernmental Agreement for Foreign Financial Institutions FFIs to enable JLIF to be included in the first IRS Foreign Financial Institution FFI List which is planned to be published on 2 June 2014.
The Board of the Company has noted the rules of the UK FCA Financial relating to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated JLCM is responsible for preparation of a fair market valuation collective investment schemes and close substitutes referred of the Portfolio.
To provide assurance to both the Board and to as non-mainstream pooled investments or NMPI, effective JLIFs shareholders, an independent verication exercise is from 1 January 2014. performed by a leading accountancy rm and an opinion The Board has sought legal advice and received guidance from provided to the Directors.
the FCA, after which it has concluded that shares in the Company The discount rate used to value the Portfolio is based on are excluded from these new NPMI rules as the investment underlying average gilt rates plus a market premium to ensure returns received in connection with shares in the Company are the overall WADR is consistent with a fair market value.
An wholly or predominantly linked to, contingent on, highly sensitive increase in underlying gilt rates may lead to an increase in to or dependent on, the performance of or changes in the value discount rates applied by the market and a consequential of shares, debentures or government and public securities which decrease in the Portfolio Value.
There has not historically been are not themselves issued by special purpose vehicles.
As a a direct correlation between market discount rates and gilt rates.
result, the Board is of the view that the restrictions relating to Infrastructure funds tend to value their portfolios at through non-mainstream pooled investments will not apply to shares in cycle discount rates that reect the anticipated risks and rewards the Company.
In effect, the market premium applied provides a buffer against increases in gilt rates.
Management Information Technology also considers relevant market transactions.
There exists an increasing threat of cyber-attack in which a In November 2013 the EU endorsed the revised investment hacker or computer virus may attempt to access the JLIF website entities standard that JLIF has early adopted for application in or JLIFs secure data and attempt to either destroy or use this its 2013 annual accounts.
Given this is a new standard there is a data for malicious purposes.
While the Board thinks it unlikely risk that it is applied incorrectly.
Management ensures it remains that JLIF would be the deliberate target of a cyber-attack, there up to date with the latest accounting developments and any is a possibility that it could be targeted as part of a random or IFRIC opinions on interpretation of accounting standards.
JLIFs IT providers have procedures in place to deter cyber-attacks and JLIFs data is separately stored on multiple Compliance and Legal servers which is backed up regularly.
JLIF is required to comply with certain London Stock Exchange Asset Specic and Guernsey regulatory requirements.
JLCM, as Investment Adviser, is regulated and authorised by the Financial Conduct There is a risk to shareholders that the equity invested in JLIF is Authority FCA.
There is a risk that failure to comply with any not itself quickly invested by JLIF in new assets, thus sitting as of the relevant rules could result in a negative reputational or uninvested cash on JLIFs Balance Sheet.
To mitigate this risk, financial impact on the Company.
JLIF only seeks to raise new funds in the equity markets either: JLIF therefore ensures that it remains well informed as to the To repay debt drawn on the revolving credit facility to finance legislation and guidance relevant to both the Company itself as an acquisition: or well as the Project Entities in which it invests.
This is achieved by Once a specic investment opportunity with a strong chance seeking legal counsel where appropriate and by ensuring training of completing has been identied.
In this regard, JLIF is provided as necessary to the Investment Adviser and to the ensures that any consents or approvals required are under Board.
For example, both the Board and JLCM undertake regular project documentation are sought at an early stage of the training to remain current on the requirements of the Bribery Act sale process to avoid unnecessary delays.
and its implications for the operation and management of JLIFs business activities.
Typically JLIF uses its revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions that originate outside of its first offer agreements, then repays With regard to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers this with a capital raise to offer an efficient investment for Directives AIFMD the position was claried in late 2013. shareholders.
Those acquisitions from first offer arrangements, are usually a lot more certain so a capital raise can be timed such that the assets are acquired very shortly afterwards.
Laing Investments Management Services Mill Asset Management Group Skanska Infrastructure Managers Ltd Hydea Thales UK Highway Management Services Sir Robert McAlpine Interserve Bilnger Berger HCP Social Infrastructure Semperian Special Management Services BV Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation m
