n o i t a u l a v E n o i R t e s a c p Strategy 23 How we manage risk Our risks We need to manage risk so we can meet our objectives, build Like all businesses, we are affected by a number shareholder value and promote our stakeholders interests.
We have a group-wide risk management process.
It has four of risks and uncertainties.
These may be impacted stageswhich are summarised below.
by internal and external factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are akin to those felt by similar companies in terms of scale and operation.
Principal risks and uncertainties Business This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties affecting us, but it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to impact our activities business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity or capital resources.
As in the prior year, the uncertainties in the global economy and credit markets continue to present challenges, both to our business and to others.
These challenges drive a number of the risks that we face and we focus our efforts on predicting and mitigating them.
The principal risks we described last year have evolved, and so has our response to them.
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable Changes over the last year butcannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are identied Last year we improved the way we manage risk through better and addressed.
There may be risks which are unknown or which are reporting, evaluation and training.
This year we have further developed presently judged not to be significant but later prove to be significant.
our approach including: In our principal risks section below, we explain what we are doing to Scenario planning and war gaming.
We have already used these prevent our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
techniques to good effect in understanding traditional physical business continuity threats.
This year we have also applied them to Our principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction some of the risks we highlight below.
with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements for Assurance.
Our line of business and service unit audit & risk this document, and the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking committees have extended their focus on risk management across statements.
Their advice, analysis and reviews have helped usget better at dealing with risks inside our business.
You can read the cautionary statement regarding Guidance and toolkit refresh.
We have updated our risk 177 forward-looking statements on page management policy and guidance.
We have also added to the toolkit that our risk management specialists and the wider business use to put our risk management process into action.
Enterprise Risk Management framework Line of business and Audit & Risk service unit audit Committee & risk committees Line of business & service Operating Group Risk Panel Board unit leadership teams Committee Our lines of business and our The Group Risk Panel supports The Operating Committee identies, The Board has overall responsibility service unit follow our process the Board and the Operating evaluates, responds to and monitors for making sure we manage risks for managing risk as part of our Committee.
Every three months it risks.
significant risks are reported appropriately.
It regularly reviews Enterprise Risk Management reviews the Group Risk Register and monitored through the Group either directly, or through the Audit framework.
That means identifying which summarises those risks of Risk Register.
The Operating & Risk Committee, how we are and responding to the key risks to greatest signicance across our Committee assigns a management doing across the group, in our lines their business.
They record the risks business, considers the inclusion owner to take charge of monitoring of business and in our service unit.
in a register for their leadership of new or emerging risks, and and managing each risk.
It monitors teams to review.
Audit & risk recommends ways to tackle them.
It these risks through regular detailed committees in each line of business, also oversees the work of the group reviews as well as six-monthly and our service unit, ensure this risk management function.
reviews of the Group Risk Register.
