S St tr ra at tegy egy 24 24 Our principal risks Security and resilience Major contracts In keeping with other organisations that process and store data, We have a number of complex and high-value national and we have a responsibility to many millions of customers, both multinational contracts with certain customers.
The revenue business and consumer, to safeguard their electronic information arising from, and the profitability of these contracts are subject and to maintain the continuity of services.
This requires the to a number of factors including: variation in cost: achievement highest levels of operational security and resilience, which of cost reductions anticipated in the contract pricing, both in can be threatened at any time by incidents such as malicious terms of scale and time: delays in the delivery or achievement of cyber-attacks, theft of copper cable and equipment, vandalism, agreed milestones owing to factors either within or outside of our sabotage, extreme weather, component overload, loss of power control: changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies and human error.
The volume of trafc through our systems and or businesses: and the performance of our suppliers.
Any of these networks is increasing, and customer tolerance of interruptions factors could make a contract less profitable or even loss-making.
reduces as the world becomes ever more dependent on The degree of risk generally varies in proportion to the scope and information technology.
life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages of Changes over the last year the contract.
Some customer contracts require investment in the Concerted efforts to deter cable theft, supported by legislative early stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of changes and the well publicised arrest and prosecution of thieves, the contract.
Major contracts often involve the implementation are beginning to reduce the number of service interruptions in of new systems and communications networks, transformation of the network.
Theft of equipment from our premises has also legacy networks and the development of new technologies.
However, we are detecting more cyberrecoverability of these upfront costs may be impacted by delays attacks aimed at stealing data or disrupting our own and our or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance risk exists customers websites.
We have strengthened our defences against these cyber-attacks Changes over the last year and now routinely cope with attacks that a few years ago would The difficult economic and market conditions, particularly in have caused considerable risk of data loss.
Our segregation and Europe, have increased financial and operational pressures on encryption of data has increased.
In further recognition of the our customers and have made the environment even more importance of people and behaviours in managing this risk, a competitive.
With our investment and expansion into highcampaign to raise staff and supplier awareness of cyber threats growth regions, the landscape of our risks and opportunities is proceeding in response to the increasing sophistication of naturally changes as we must deal with rapidly evolving attacks.
We have also refreshed our data protection governance geo-political risks and different trading environments and with the appointment of a Chief Privacy officer.
Our control and governance framework has been extended to include contracts between BT and UK local We are upgrading much of our equipment to improve reliability, authorities seeking to extend the reach of bre broadband in increase capacity and reduce energy consumption.
ooding across the UK in the year caused several service outages that demanded urgent action and resources to be diverted.
For larger contracts, we have recently expanded the scope of independent reviews to critical stages of the contract lifecycle to Impact help identify any key issues, risks and actions which need to be A breach of our security, or compromise of data and or monitored.
resilience affecting our operations, or those of our customers, could lead to an extended interruption to network services or Impact even affect national infrastructure.
Such failure may lead to a Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these loss of customer confidence, termination of contracts, loss of contracts, as well as changes in customers requirements, revenue, and reduced cash generation through penalties and budgets, strategies or businesses, may lead to a reduction in unplanned costs of restoration and improvement.
Additional our expected future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
reputational damage and financial loss may arise from a legal or Unexpectedly high costs associated with the delivery of contracts contractual failing such as breaching data protection or handling could also negatively impact profitability.
We may lose revenue requirements.
Failure or interruption of data transfer could also due to the merger or acquisition of customers, business failure have a significant adverse effect on our business.
or contract termination and contracts may become loss-making.
Failure to replace the revenue and earnings lost from such Risk mitigation customers could lead to an overall reduction in group revenue, Our strategy for resilience is to combine formal business profitability and cash ow.
continuity planning with well-tested, rapid and exible responses.
We have a rolling programme of major incident Risk mitigation simulations to test and rene our crisis management procedures.
We have in place business processes that support each stage of a Our security defences range from physical protection of our major contracts lifecycle: bid: in-life: renewal: and termination.
assets, access controls, real-time analysis and sharing of Our programme of in-life reviews is designed to validate financial intelligence, and continuous monitoring for intrusion and and non-financial controls over delivery of the contract.
It anomalies, through to rapid modication of rewalls and incorporates tiered levels of dened reviews according to the automated blocking of malicious data trafc.
Together, these scale and complexity of the contract.
Controls are applied and measures increase the likelihood that any potential incidents can regularly monitored across our major contracts.
All our major be contained and dealt with as quickly as possible.
contracts are subject to regular management review and many are subject to independent review both internal and external as part of that governance.
Our independent review programme helps us apply lessons learned and to promote best practice through the business.
S St tr ra at tegy egy 25 25 Pensions Growth in a competitive market We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our dened We operate in markets which are characterised by: high levels benefit pension schemes.
Low investment returns, high ination, of change: strong competition: declining prices: technology longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the substitution: market and service convergence: customer churn: cost of funding BTs main dened benefit pension scheme, the declining revenues: new competitors: and regulatory intervention BT Pension Scheme BTPS, becoming a significant burden on our to promote competition and reduce wholesale prices.
A significant proportion of our revenue and profit is generated Changes over the last year in the UK where the overall telecoms market has been in decline Following the conclusion of the 30 June 2011 triennial funding in real terms, despite strong volume growth in new services.
valuation of the BTPS in May 2012, the valuation documentation Revenue from our calls and lines services to consumers and was submitted to the Pensions Regulator for their review.
The businesses has historically been in decline but new broadband final Court decision in the Crown Guarantee case, after any and connectivity markets are growing.
Our ability to deliver appeals, will give greater clarity as to the extent to which the profitable revenue growth in a responsible and sustainable liabilities of the BTPS are covered by a Crown Guarantee.
This manner depends on us delivering on our strategic priorities see will inform the Pensions Regulators next steps with regard to page 14. the valuation of the Scheme.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is Changes over the last year uncertain as to when they will conclude their review.
The level of risk facing our business increased as the economic Government bond yields have fallen since the valuation at situation in the UK and other key markets deteriorated in the 30June 2011, with real yields being negative at times.
Depressed business activity together with lower disposable has been caused by a number of factors, including the Bank of incomes continues to be a major barrier to growing revenues, Englands Quantitative Easing programme.
If the fall in yields particularly among business customers.
is maintained and reected in the next funding valuation, due Regulatory decisions made during the year also contributed as at 30 June 2014, this would increase the value of the BTPS adversely to our risk prole, revenue and profits.
failed to address imbalances in the competitive playing eld.
The European Commission is reviewing the current Directive for This means that some of our competitors in the consumer space pensions and we responded to a relevant consultation during benefit from limited regulation on their core business combined the year.
The Commissions aim is to issue new draft legislation in with extensive sector-specic regulation being applied to our UK summer 2013.
Depending on its scope, there is potential for any xed-line business.
legislative change to have an impact on BTs funding liabilities in A number of competitor-related developments have contributed the future.
We will continue to monitor developments in this area.
These include, but are not limited to: Impact the acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide by Vodafone: An increase in the pension deficit and associated funding the decision by Vodafone and O2 to establish a joint venture requirements may have an impact on the level of deficit to consolidate existing network infrastructure and local payments we are required to make into the scheme.
Indirectly it transmission: the agreement which brought forward the may also have an adverse impact on our share price and credit timetable for 4G mobile services being launched in the UK: and rating.
Any deterioration in our credit rating would increase our increased competitive activity around over-the-top video-oncost of borrowing and may limit the availability or exibility demand services in the UK.
of future funding, thereby affecting our ability to invest, pay Impact dividends or repay debt as it matures.
Failure to achieve profitable revenue growth from our strategic Risk mitigation priorities may lead to a continued decline in revenue, erosion of The investment performance and liability experience, as well as our competitive position and might also lead to a reduction in the associated risks and any mitigation, are regularly reviewed profitability and cash ow in the future.
and monitored by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
Risk mitigation The BTPS has a well-diversied investment strategy, which Our mitigation of this risk centres on successfully executing our reduces the risk of adverse movements in the value of individual strategy.
We believe that delivering this strategy, with its focus asset classes and helps ensure that an efficient balance of risk and on Customer service delivery, Cost transformation and Investing return is maintained.
for the future, as well as investing in our existing business and offering new services in adjacent markets, will together help us Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of drive profitable revenue growth.
protection that enables variations in the funding position of the BTPS to be managed without having a material impact on the We have a well-developed cost transformation programme in ongoing performance of our business.
place which should provide future savings to support profitability trends.
We also believe risks can be mitigated by seeking changes in regulation to level the playing eld so that we can compete effectively, and for the benefit of our customers.
Strategy Strategy S St tr ra at tegy egy 26 26 Communications industry regulation Business integrity and ethics Our activities across all the jurisdictions in which we operate We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical can be impacted by regulation.
Regulatory requirements and behaviour, and have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and constraints can directly impact our ability to compete effectively corruption.
We have to comply with a wide range of local and and earn revenues.
international anti-corruption and bribery laws.
In particular the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA In the UK where, following detailed market analysis, we are found provide comprehensive anti-bribery legislation.
Both have extrato have significant market power, Ofcom requires us to provide territorial reach and thereby cover our global operations.
As we wholesale services at regulated prices.
It can also require us to expand internationally, we are increasingly operating in countries make retrospective repayments to other CPs where we are found identied as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
to have set prices outside regulatory requirements, and can impose fines on us for non-compliance with the regulatory rules, We also have to ensure compliance with trade sanctions, and including competition law.
Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can restrict the Changes over the last year extent to which we can enter markets and compete.
Regulation The Serious Fraud Ofce SFO has produced revised guidance will also define the terms on which we can purchase key on the UK Bribery Act.
The SFO has indicated it will now focus wholesale services from others.
on its role as an investigator and prosecutor of serious and or complex fraud and where there is sufficient evidence and it is in In the UK, risks can come from, for example, periodic market the public interest, prosecutions rather than civil settlements will reviews which might introduce tighter regulatory constraints from now be pursued, even where companies have self-reported.
This new charge controls or from CPs disputing or complaining about represents a change to its previous stance where self-reporting our pricing, products or services.
Outside the UK, regulators can may have led to more lenient treatment.
It has further confirmed investigate our licensing requirements and whether our services that it considers facilitation payments to be bribes.
The US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Changes over the last year Commission have also produced guidance on the FCPA giving Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of information about the US governments approach to FCPA areas which are summarised in Regulation on page 38.
of these rulings have resulted in a negative impact either through retrospective price reductions or on our future pricing.
In addition, sanctions regulations in Europe and the US have been extended.
Impact Risks from regulation are most significant in the UK.
Impact Failure by our employees, suppliers or agents to comply with Around 5.8bn of our revenue of which 3.3bn is to anti-corruption and bribery and sanctions legislation could result downstream parts of BT is from wholesale markets where we in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant have been found to hold significant market power and which damage to our reputation.
This could in turn impact our future are currently subject to regulatory charge controls.
Most of revenue and cash ow, the extent of which would depend on these controls require us to reduce our prices annually to reect the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned and any expected reductions in unit costs through efficiency savings.
Allegations of corruption or bribery or Controls are usually set for three years and will therefore constrain violation of sanctions regulations could also lead to reputation revenues during that period.
and brand damage with investors, regulators and customers.
Other CPs can ask Ofcom to resolve disputes with us about Risk mitigation current or historic prices.
Where Ofcom nds that these prices We have in place a number of controls to address risk in this area.
are, or have been, set at levels above those required under the These include a comprehensive anti-corruption and bribery regulatory framework, we may need to make retrospective programme, The Way We Work, which is our statement of payments to CPs.
business practice and is being refreshed to give greater guidance to our people.
We ask all BT employees to sign up to its principles We may from time-to-time be required to provide new services, and our anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have specic or existing services on improved terms, to wholesale customers policies covering gifts and hospitality and charitable donations on a non-discriminatory basis.
This could increase our costs.
We run a training programme with a particular Regulation outside the UK can impact our revenue by restricting focus on roles such as procurement and sales.
our ability to compete through overly-restrictive licensing We regularly assess our business integrity risks to make sure that requirements or ineffective regulation of access to other CP the appropriate mitigation is in place.
Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our Risk mitigation business.
We also use external providers to carry out assessments We employ a team of regulatory specialists including in areas we believe to be higher risk, to ensure our policies are accountants and economists who, together with legal experts understood and the controls are functioning.
and external advisors, continuously monitor and review the We conduct due diligence checks on third parties including scope for regulatory changes and potential future disputes.
Procurement contracts include antiteam maintains a dialogue with regulators and with other key corruption and bribery clauses.
A trade sanctions policy and inuencers to ensure our positions are understood and to drive sign-off procedure are also in place.
for fair and proportionate regulation.
We are also able to appeal any regulatory decisions where we believe errors have been made.
S St tr ra at tegy egy 27 27 Supply chain The integrity and continuity of our supply chain is critical to our operations.
Our aim is to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of the global supply market to add value to our business and customers.
We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation to contracting and payment, are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
The failure of a critical third-party supplier to meet its obligations could cause significant harm to our business and the BT brand, as well as potentially impact our cost transformation and efficiency plans.
Changes over the last year Olympic website security Many suppliers continue to be impacted by the global economic Protecting the worlds most popular website downturn and as a result we have seen an increase in the number When we were asked to host the ofcial website of suppliers suffering from financial distress.
The downturn has for London 2012 we knew that would mean also increased the risk of suppliers applying less focus on key unprecedented levels of trafc from all over the areas such as business continuity management or corporate and world.
During the Games, the website had more social responsibility in an effort to reduce their costs.
than 450 million visits which transferred 1,451 Impact terabytes of data.
Whilst the size of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, The websites high prole carried a high risk of all supplier failures typically result in an increased cost to our cyber-attack.
There was at least one hacktivist business and have the potential to negatively impact the service campaign every day.
In many cases the cost associated with supplier failure is significant, particularly if it then results in us But with our proxy servers and cyber-defence tools having to change technology.
If we are unable to contract with plus the knowhow and experience of our Cyber an alternative supplier, our customer commitments could also Defence Operations team we stopped 11,000 be compromised, possibly leading to contractual breach, loss of malicious requests every second during attacks revenue, penalties or increased costs.
In total, we blocked 212m malicious connection attempts.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly So during Games time there were no security lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Risk mitigation We planned well for the high volumes of internet We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy, trafc.
We made good technology choices for and where possible, take actions to reduce risk, such as through combating cyber-attacks.
We had the data and tools dual-sourcing where appropriate.
We operate a comprehensive we needed to analyse threats in detail.
This all meant in-life risk mitigation programme that classies our suppliers into we could focus our defences and share intelligence appropriate risk categories and then aims proactively to build to help make sure we kept the Games website up risk mitigation plans and detect potential supplier failures before andrunning.
For our critical suppliers this mitigation strategy considers a range of risks including: financial failure: supplier capability and capacity: sole sourcing: corporate and social responsibility: business continuity: security: location: and the overall supplier relationship.
This approach has been complemented by a programme specically looking at our low spend suppliers, to ensure we achieve maximum business benefit but at the same time do not contract with too many suppliers, exposing us to unnecessary risk.
By adopting this approach, we seek to minimise the risk of not being able to meet our customer and legal commitments or comply with our ethical policies.
This helps to minimise our exposure to loss of revenue, financial penalty and any adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure that the goods and services that we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
