Principal risks and uncertainties Our performance and prospects may Risk: Risk: be affected by risks and uncertainties Interruption to Patent invalidity, patent relating to our business and operating environment.
Our internal controls product supply infringement litigation and include a risk management process to changes in patent laws identify key risks and, where possible, manage the risks through systems and processes and by implementing specific mitigation strategies.
Impact: Impact: The most significant risks identified BTG relies on third-party contractors for the BTG can be subject to patent challenge at any in an annual update of the Groups risk supply of many key materials and services, time.
Challenges can relate to the validity of such as filling and freeze-drying of end BTGs patents or to alleged infringement by register that could materially affect products.
These processes carry risks of BTG of intellectual property rights of others, the Groups ability to achieve its financial failure and loss of product.
Problems at which might result in litigation costs and or and operating objectives are contractors facilities may lead to delays and loss of earnings.
BTG might be obliged to summarised in this section.
Other risks disruptions in supplies.
Some materials and sue third-parties for their infringement of its are unknown or deemed less material.
services may be available from one source patents in order to protect revenue streams.
only and regulatory requirements make Failure by BTG to maintain or renew key substitution costly, time-consuming or patents might lead to losses of earnings and commercially unviable.
BTGs polyclonal liabilities to licensees or licensors.
BTG may antibody products rely on serum produced not be able to secure the necessary from our sheep flocks in Australia, which intellectual property rights in relation to could be subject to disease outbreaks or fire.
products in development, limiting the potential to generate value from these BTG relies on its single site in Wales for products.
Changes in patent laws and other supply of manufactured antibody products, intellectual property regulations in territories with the consequent possibilities for where BTG or its licensees conduct business disruption to supplies.
BTG manufactures that make it more difficult or time-consuming its own Bead and Brachytherapy products to prosecute patents, or which reduce the at single sites in Farnham, UK, and Oxford, available term of granted patents or periods CT, USA, respectively, with the consequent of market exclusivity protection, could possibilities for disruption to supplies.
adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
BTG plans to undertake the manufacture of PEM at its Farnham site, requiring the BTGs patent portfolio is currently subject completion of new manufacturing facilities to several challenges.
to meet the requirements of Good Manufacturing Practice.
This site will require Mitigation: regulatory approval and a licence to support Dedicated internal resource supplemented the commercialisation of PEM.
Any delay in by external expertise monitors patent completion of this facility or obtaining the portfolios, third-party patent applications necessary manufacturing licences may result and intellectual property rights: development in a delay in the approval of PEM reducing and implementation filing, defence and future earning potential.
The continuity of enforcement IP strategies: robust processes potential PEM revenues will also be subject in place to automate patent renewals: to single source risk.
internal controls established to avoid disclosure of patentable material prior to Mitigation: filing patent applications.
Rigorous monitoring of suppliers: dual sourcing implemented where practicable: Change in 2012 13: inventories maintained and monitored None.
through sales and operational planning process and production changes implemented where needed to ensure continued product supply: rigorous quality control procedures in place: regular checks made on sheep flock health: disaster recovery plans under regular review.
Change in 2012 13: PEM has been transferred to our Farnham site with a successful UK regulatory Business review inspection completed.
32 Principal risks and uncertainties BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Risk: Risk: Risk: Patent expiry, competition Failure to comply with Product liability and other may reduce current regulations may result in key risks may not be revenues product delays, failures, capable of being adequately regulatory actions and insured financial penalties Impact: Impact: Impact: BTGs key current royalty-generating products The pharmaceutical industry is highly The manufacturing, testing, marketing and are expected to continue to provide royalty regulated and the Group must comply with sale of BTGs products involve significant revenues until their patents or licence a broad range of regulations relating to the product liability.
As the developer, agreements expire.
Any unforeseen patent development, approval, manufacturing and manufacturer and or seller of certain loss, supply, safety or compliance issues marketing of its products.
This is particularly products, BTG may be held liable for death with these products could result in premature true in the US, from which the Group derives or personal injury to persons receiving the cessation of the revenues.
BTG earns most of its revenues and where the Group products during development or after the revenues from sales of its Acute Care has established its own sales and marketing product is approved.
products CroFab, DigiFab and Voraxaze.
Specific requirements relating CroFab is patent protected but DigiFab and to quality assurance apply to the Groups Mitigation: Voraxaze have no patent protection at this manufacture of products, particularly in the BTG maintains product liability insurance time: CroFab and DigiFab are protected by pharmaceutical area.
Regulatory regimes and operates quality systems relating to significant know-how and complex are complex and dynamic, and alterations the manufacture of its products and a manufacturing processes and BTG expects to the regulations may result in delays in pharmacovigilance system to monitor revenues to continue regardless of patent product development, approval or withdrawal.
safety events arising with respect to products protection.
However, future competition Ensuring compliance with such regulations sold.
It may not be commercially viable to cannot be ruled out and competing products necessitates allocation of significant financial adequately insure against the occurrence could materially adversely impact BTGs and operating resources.
Failure to comply of other key risks.
Instituto Bioclon has with certain rules, laws and regulations announced the completion of a Phase III may result in criminal and civil proceedings clinical trial of a potential competitor product against the Group.
Significant breaches could Change in 2012 13: to CroFab.
BTG also earns revenues from result in large financial penalties, which could None.
sales of its bead and brachytherapy products, materially adversely impact the Groups all of which are subject to competition.
While financial performance and prospects.
these medical devices benefit from patent Moreover, failure by BTG or a BTG partner protection certain patents are subject to company to comply with regulations may challenge.
result in a product being withdrawn from the market with a subsequent loss of revenues.
Mitigation: New royalty streams may emerge.
For Mitigation: example, following expanded regulatory A Code of Conduct has been established, approval in the US and elsewhere of Zytiga supported by a mandatory training as a treatment for men with advanced programme: robust compliance systems prostate cancer during 2012, this has are in place to ensure sales and marketing become BTGs largest royalty stream: activities comply with regulations in the US additional future royalty streams would result and other territories: standard operating if alemtuzumab is approved to treat multiple procedures are in place to ensure compliance sclerosis.
Mitigations with respect to the with good clinical and manufacturing practice bead products include product development, and to manage pharmacovigilance geographic expansion, appropriate IP lifecycle requirements, monitored through quality management and the conduct of clinical control systems.
Internal expertise is studies to expand their indicated uses maintained to manage these risks.
Change in 2012 13: The Group had several regulatory inspections Change in 2012 13: at its various sites during the year which have Zytiga received approvals to treat resulted in the Group needing to Conduct chemo-nave prostate cancer patients assessments and undertake remedial and royalty revenue increased significantly, actions in relation to findings.
offsetting the final royalties received on BeneFIX.
Business review 33 Principal risks and uncertainties BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk: Risk: Inability to access new The success of development products and programmes activities and market may limit future growth acceptance is uncertain Impact: Impact: BTG conducts limited fundamental The development of medical products and research to generate its own development medical devices is inherently uncertain and programmes but instead seeks to acquire the timelines and costs to approval may vary new products and late-stage development significantly from budget or expectation.
The programmes from other organisations.
product may not demonstrate the expected There is significant competition from other safety and efficacy benefits and may not companies also seeking to acquire new be approved by regulatory bodies, such products and programmes who may have as the US Food and Drug Administration.
greater financial resources and sales and Manufacturing difficulties or patent litigation marketing reach than BTG.
BTG may not may cause programmes to be delayed or be able to acquire suitable products and halted or products withdrawn.
Failure of a programmes, which will materially adversely late-stage programme such as PEM would impact the Groups financial future materially adversely impact the Groups performance and growth prospects.
Regulatory approval requirements may change, resulting in further uncertainty.
Even if a product is approved that Mitigation: is no assurance of commercial success.
Dedicated product acquisition team in place: strategy is to focus on niche opportunities that leverage BTGs US commercial Mitigation: operations and those that may be a better fit Experienced development team in place: with BTG than with other organisations.
focus is on acquiring late-stage programmes Development teams working to develop that have already demonstrated proof of follow-on products from existing technology concept and potentially have lower-risk platforms such as embolisation beads.
development pathways: development programmes monitored to identify risks and challenges and recommend mitigating and Change in 2012 13: corrective actions.
Certain products are Strategy to expand the approved uses of licensed to other companies who may have Bead products outlined during the year.
greater resources to support product development.
Regulatory team in place, consultation undertaken with applicable regulatory authorities.
Business review 34 Principal risks and uncertainties BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Risk: Risk: Risk: Competition may erode Pricing and reimbursement Currency and treasury revenues pressures are increasing effects can adversely impact results Impact: Impact: Impact: The Group operates in competitive markets.
There is increasing pressure on healthcare Many of BTGs revenues and receipts are The products on which BTG currently earns budgets causing payers to demand denominated in US dollars and movements revenues, or from which it anticipates increasing treatment and economic benefits in foreign exchange rates could adversely earning revenues once on the market, before agreeing to reimburse product impact results.
face competition from other products that suppliers at all or at appropriate prices.
are already approved or in development.
In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation Mitigation: Competing products may have superior was adopted in the US, requiring BTG actively manages its exchange risks efficacy and side effect profiles, cost less to manufacturers to increase the rebates or where feasible, using short-term hedging produce or be offered at a lower price than discounts they give on products reimbursed transactions guided by market expectations BTGs products: such competition could or paid for by public payers, including and economic forecasts to seek to match materially adversely impact Group revenues.
The purpose of the actual receipts and payments over a rolling reform is to increase healthcare coverage in 12-month period to those forecast.
This the US population and to manage treatment Mitigation: policy can result in both exchange gains and of chronic conditions efficiently and cost BTG focuses on niche opportunities, losses but provides a level of certainty over effectively.
Management of acute conditions addressing specialist markets where there cash receipts.
BTGs Acute Care is limited competition and high barriers to and interventional oncology products treat entry: CroFab and DigiFab have no current serious medical conditions and the impact of competitors: both products are complex to Change in 2012 13: existing healthcare reform on current Group manufacture.
We seek to differentiate the None.
revenues is not expected to be material to embolisation and drug-eluting Bead products the Groups financial position.
If BTG acquires by supporting a range of clinical studies to products in future that are more impacted by generate safety and efficacy data to expand healthcare reforms, revenue expectations their indicated uses.
Failure of a product to qualify for government or health insurance Change in 2012 13: reimbursement or the failure to achieve an None.
appropriate sales price could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
Future healthcare reforms may become more onerous and may have a negative impact on Group revenues.
Mitigation: BTG focuses primarily on niche products that address serious unmet needs: early on in a products development, the Group conducts pricing and reimbursement studies: the assessments of potential new products will include an assessment of healthcare reforms on pricing and reimbursement.
Business review 35 Principal risks and uncertainties BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
