Principal risks and mitigations There are a number of key risks which could prevent us from achieving our strategy.
The robust management of these is fundamental to Jupiters culture.
Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Sustained under Failure to Significant Regulatory Distribution and Operational Failure of third Business continuity Counterparty Risk performance retain key staff mandate breach non-compliance product trends error or fraud party supplier incident failure There is a risk that We are a human Our funds are managed A significant regulatory The risks reflect A material error in The failure of a Business operations, The failure of a our clients will not capital business in accordance with investigation or potential future the execution of a key provider on which we systems and processes trading or depositary meet their investment and our staff are a investment mandates action against the changes in our fee business process, or a rely for the provision of are liable to disruption counterparty with objectives due to significant component and restrictions agreed Group could have a structures, in the terms fraud being successfully key business processing from fire, power loss, which we have a weaknesses in the of successfully with our clients.
Failure detrimental effect we are able to agree carried out against us activities may lead to systems failure or relationship.
financial markets or executing our strategy.
to adhere to these on our reputation with third party or our clients.
our failing to deliver external events.
from poor mandates would reflect and business.
distributors, or in the the required level of performance.
a poor level of client appetite of clients to service to our clients service and may invest in our products.
or shareholders or jeopardise relationships fulfilling our regulatory with our clients.
Poor performance of The departure of a high If investments are made Regulatory censure Our ability to A significant error or Our relationships with Inability to carry out The loss of or inability Potential impact the financial markets or profile fund manager or managed in breach and the related adverse generate flows may successful fraud may key stakeholders may our business activities.
to access material by our fund managers or member of our of an investment publicity may lead to be jeopardised by lead to negative be jeopardised in the amounts of our or may lead to our management team mandate, we may be a loss of confidence fundamental changes financial impact on the event of our providing our clients funds.
products being could lead to a required to unwind the by our clients as well in distribution patterns Group due to the cost an inadequate level uncompetitive or significant level relevant transactions as having a negative or by a sustained of redressing any issues.
of service, resulting in otherwise unattractive of redemptions from and could be liable for reputational effect market appetite for the loss of clients or to new or existing our funds or a failure any losses suffered by which could impinge products Jupiter regulatory financial clients, resulting in a to run our business in an affected party in on our ability to does not offer.
decline in Group AUM an effective manner, doing so.
having a material impact on our revenues and or corporate performance.
Jupiter maintains a We believe that high Functionality is We maintain a robust We undertake ongoing We rely on efficient All third parties who Continuity and business The security of our Mitigation range of flexible levels of employee coded onto the order compliance culture and analysis of the markets and well-controlled provide critical services resumption planning clients' assets is Jupiter's Controls investment products engagement and management system all employees including in which we operate processes.
The potential to our business are is in place across our primary consideration that is designed to equity ownership to allow the pre and fund managers and in order to ensure that impact and likelihood subject to a high level business in support of when evaluating deliver value to our drive business post-trade monitoring distribution staff are we maintain a diverse of processes failing of ongoing oversight, all of our key activities.
potential clients irrespective outperformance and of investment activity, required to undertake suite of products that and operational risks providing assurance We support remote counterparties.
we strive to ensure including system training with regards continue to appeal including fraud that they are of the working, including core We seek to diversify Our investment we have an attractive warnings being raised to regulatory matters.
to our existing and materialising is assessed required standard.
system access for all our exposures process seeks to working environment.
to alert fund managers Our Compliance potential future clients.
by each operational Jupiter has established of our key staff in the across different meet investment We maintain prior to any department conducts a A well-defined product area on a regular basis.
formal guidelines for event that they are institutions and targets within clearly a competitive investments being programme of internal development process Where these likelihoods the management and unable to travel to actively monitor their stated risk parameters.
In addition, monitoring to ensure enables us to deliver are felt to be outside oversight of all third Jupiter's offices, and creditworthiness using We use tools and and make use of client portfolios are that regulatory controls new products or our appetite for risk, party relationships to maintain alternative a suite of key risk governance principles deferred remuneration subject to a are adhered to.
Our risk enhancements to management actions ensure that they are premises, including a indicators, including within our investment and share-based comprehensive governance structure target client groups and or control subject to a level of dedicated office suite market data and credit risk framework and we payment arrangements programme of and whistleblowing in a timely and improvements are scrutiny commensurate equipped with all key agency ratings.
Any review performance in order to align staff monitoring by our policy are designed efficient manner.
identified in order with the potential risk portfolio management deposits are placed that lies outside long-term interests Compliance and to ensure that any to bring each potential they may pose to our and support systems, according to agreed expectations.
Fund with those of the Portfolio Analytics regulatory issues can risk back to within business.
should our normal limits which may performance is Group.
We also teams in order to allow be escalated to senior acceptable levels.
business systems or be amended in monitored as part develop, monitor and swift remediation in management in an Jupiter maintains a premises become the context of any of the investment maintain succession the event of any open and timely way, comprehensive level unavailable.
performance risk planning for all key breaches being ensuring the maximum of insurance cover and management process roles.
appropriate amount of we assess our capital and is formally regulatory protection resources to ensure that overseen by a Portfolio for clients.
these are appropriate Review Committee in the context of our which meets quarterly.
12 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Sustained under Failure to Significant Regulatory Distribution and Operational Failure of third Business continuity Counterparty Risk performance retain key staff mandate breach non-compliance product trends error or fraud party supplier incident failure There is a risk that We are a human Our funds are managed A significant regulatory The risks reflect A material error in The failure of a Business operations, The failure of a our clients will not capital business in accordance with investigation or potential future the execution of a key provider on which we systems and processes trading or depositary meet their investment and our staff are a investment mandates action against the changes in our fee business process, or a rely for the provision of are liable to disruption counterparty with objectives due to significant component and restrictions agreed Group could have a structures, in the terms fraud being successfully key business processing from fire, power loss, which we have a weaknesses in the of successfully with our clients.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 13
