PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risks and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels.
It also identifies the assurance activities relating to the relevant mitigating actions.
RISK OVERVIEW Using this framework, every business documents their key risks The effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and in a consistent reporting format which specifically identifies the uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of delivering the mitigating activities, relevant controls and related assurance Groups strategic objectives.
The Risk management and internal activities for each significant risk.
Management then consolidates control section of the Corporate governance report on pages 42 and the risk information at both a business area and Group level using 43 includes further information on the specific procedures designed the same reporting format, culminating in the Group risk to identify, manage and mitigate business risk which could have a assessment.
The Executive Committee then reviews the Group risk material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or assessment, the relevant controls and other steps taken to mitigate results of operations.
the risks identified and the assurance procedures in place over such controls with a view to determining any further actions required in The Companys risk management framework provides a consistent order to reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The risk methodology by which every business and business area, the assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board.
Executive Committee and ultimately the Board assess the risks that the Group faces against a defined set of probability and impact CHANGES TO THE RISK PROFILE criteria.
In assessing impact, the following criteria are considered: The Group operates in many business environments and across a business continuity: health, safety and the environment: regulatory: number of geographies in which risks and uncertainties exist, not reputational: and financial.
The probability and impact of each risk all of which are necessarily within the Companys control.
The risks is assessed on two bases.
The first, defined as Gross Risk, is the identified in the 2012 Annual Report remain those of most concern probability and impact of a risk if none of the mitigating actions or to the business at the end of 2013.
However, the risk of a negative internal controls designed to reduce either the probability or the impact due to countries leaving the eurozone is considered to have impact of a risk occurring were in place.
The second, defined as Net decreased since the previous year and is no longer regarded as a Risk, is the residual probability and impact of a risk assuming that principal risk for the purposes of the Group risk assessment.
The the mitigating actions and internal controls operated as intended in principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps an effective way.
taken to mitigate such risks and uncertainties are detailed below.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive and is not presented in order of potential probability or impact.
Market risks Mitigating factors Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service competition from international companies as well as national, levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates.
needs and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or national presence in the markets in which the Group operates customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the and maintaining strong relationships with a variety of different Groups growth potential, either through pressure on sales volumes suppliers thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of or margins from customers, the loss of customers, increased price products to its customers.
The Group also regularly reviews the competition or unforeseen changes in the competitive landscape competitive environment in which it operates.
due to changes in technology or routes to market.
Product price changes The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source its of operations.
There could be significant increases in the cost of products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not specific products leading to a diminution in margins if cost increases dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product.
cannot be passed on in full to customers or substitute products Increased focus on the Groups own import programmes and sourced from elsewhere.
In addition, adverse economic conditions brands, together with the reinforcement of the Groups service resulting in a period of commodity price deflation and increased and product offering to customers, helps to minimise the impact levels of imported products may lead to reductions in the price of price deflation.
and value of the Groups products.
If this were to occur, the Groups The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued revenue and, as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the value inventory in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels of inventory held in stock may not be fully recoverable.
efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
30 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Financial risks Mitigating factors Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
The Group does outweigh the associated risks.
not hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material transaction exposures are usually limited and exchange rate translation impact on the Groups reported results.
fluctuations have minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless The Group may also be subject to transaction exposures where there is a sudden and significant adverse movement of a foreign products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and currency in which products are purchased which may lead to a delay movements in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
The Group of the Groups net assets.
undertakes some forward purchasing of foreign currencies for identified exposures to reduce the impact of short term volatility.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related hedging activity is regularly monitored by senior management.
The Groups approach to managing foreign exchange risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different its trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and sources and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.
There to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they is a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary fall due and that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups funds when required or that such funds will only be available requirements in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with on a monthly basis based on the management accounts.
Sensitivity certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess interest cover.
A breach of these covenants could result in a significant their impact on covenants.
proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Operational risks Mitigating factors Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive growth strategy includes additional acquisitions.
Although the advantage and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group Group operates in a number of fragmented markets which provide continually reviews acquisition targets and has established future acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that the processes and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition Group will be able to make acquisitions in the future.
There is also a due diligence and post-acquisition integration.
risk that not all of the acquisitions made will be successful due to The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an the loss of key people or customers after the acquisition, or acquisition through the recruitment and retention of high deterioration in the economic environment of the acquired business.
quality management combined with effective strategic planning, In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this of performance by both business area and Group management.
will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
Business continuity The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities failure through of its major distribution facilities or information systems.
the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one location and the impact of information systems failure through the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws market sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
and mitigate against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation to the supply of defective products or breaches of their The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance contractual arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with countries increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any defective products.
potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 26 to 29 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 31 4% Decrease in accident incidence rate SUPPORT IMPROVE SUSTAIN We are fully engaged in our wider responsibilities, including reducing environmental impact, a commitment to social well-being and supporting our people to develop their skills to benefit community initiatives.
