Principal Risks PRINCIPAL RISKs Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the Groups strategic themes, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The key steps the Group takes to address these principal The Board has overall responsibility for determining the risks are described in the table under Mitigation.
It is not nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take possible for the Group to implement controls to respond in achieving its strategic objectives its risk appetite, and to all the risks it may face, and the steps the Group has for ensuring that risks are managed effectively.
The Board taken to address certain risks including those listed may has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility not manage these risks effectively.
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management methodology.
The principal risks are not listed in order of significance and each of the risks should beconsidered independently.
As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers the If more than one of the eventscontemplated by the risks set principal risks facing the Group and the nature and extent out occur, it ispossible that the combined overall impact of these risks.
The Groups Internal Audit and Risk of such events may be compounded.
Assurance function facilitates a risk assessment process in each key business area and global support function Since the last annual report, the Groups assessment to review the significant risks facing its operations and to of its principal risks has incorporated the following: record the relevant controls and actions in place to mitigate these.
The detailed assessments are then consolidated the macroeconomic outlook has worsened with to provide input into the overall Group risk assessment.
See expectations for global economic growth reducing, the Corporate Governance Report for further details of the adversely impacting consumer confidence and Groups risk management processes and internal controls.
sales growth: the expiration of the Japan licence in 2015 will result The Board and the executive management team use a in the loss of significant revenue to the Group.
The Group combination of different and complementary skills to assess is preparing plans for its business in Japan following the risks facing the business.
In determining its risk appetite the expiration of the licence: and the Board considers a variety of information when reviewing the Group operations and in approving key matters reserved the Group has been directly operating its Beauty for its decision.
This information includes: business since 1 April 2013.
However, ongoing activity to integrate this business into the Group could divert updates provided by senior management on key strategic management resources with an adverse impact and operational matters: on the Groups other businesses.
information provided for the purposes of deciding whether to approve those significant matters which have been reserved for the Board: and Group risk assessments facilitated by the Groups Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Function and the reports of the external auditors.
The risks set out in the table on the following pages represent the principal risks and uncertainties which may adversely impact the performance of the Group and the execution of its key strategic themes.
Other factors could also adversely affect Group performance and so the risks set out should not be considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
60 Principal Risks Risk Impact Mitigation Sustained economic slowdown.
The Groups performance remains The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local economic strong: however, the sustained risks.
In addition, the Groups financial reporting and review economic slowdown has: i reduced processes are designed to highlight any change in ongoing consumer wealth leading to a sales performance.
Counterparty credit checks are in place reduction in demand: ii impacted the for all key customers and suppliers, and flexible payment financial stability of suppliers and their terms are used to assist suppliers as required.
Group Treasury ability to secure finance which could monitors the credit ratings of financial institutions which hold disrupt the Groups supply chain Group deposits to enable the Group to take appropriate action or lead to an increase in bad debts: should there be a downgrade in their creditratings.
and iii impacted the financial stability and recovery of banks and other financial institutions, all of which could adversely impact sales and profitability.
Loss of key management or the The loss of key individuals or the Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, with inability toattract and retain inability to recruit and retain individuals specific initiatives in place designed to retain key individuals.
with the relevant talent and experience Recent regulatory changes may make it more difficult to would disrupt the operation of the remain competitive in the global market for executive talent.
business and adversely impact the Recruitment is ongoing and talent review and succession Groups ability to deliver its strategies.
planning programmes are inplace and have been updated during the year.
A substantial proportion of Group The licence with Sanyo Shokai and The Group is preparing plans for the transition of its business profits is reliant upon its licensed Mitsui & Company in Japan expires in in Japan following the expiration of the licence.
business in Japan andother key 2015, whereupon the royalty income licensed product categories.
under the licence will cease.
To minimise risks in Japan the Group has its own operations in Tokyo.
The Group expects licensees to maintain operational and financial There are minimum royalty payments specified in its licence control over their businesses.
Should agreements, including the apparel licence with Sanyo Shokai licensees fail to manage their and Mitsui & Company.
Under its licence agreements, the operations effectively or be affected by Group can control product development, marketing and a major incident, the royalty income distribution.
Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to may decline, directly impacting monitor compliance with licence terms, which canmanage but Group profits.
The risk has been reduced due to the integration of the Beauty business.
The Groups operations depend on A failure in these systems or a denial of A number of controls to maintain the integrity and efficiency of IT systems and operational service could have a significant impact the Groups IT systems are in place, including recovery plans infrastructure in order to trade on the Groups operations and which would be implemented in the event of a major failure.
Increasingly technology reputation, and potentially result inthe The IT disaster recovery plans are tested on a regular basis.
is also being used to stream major loss of sensitive information.
IT security is continually reviewed and updated and third party events and to communicate through IT security specialists areused to regularly test these controls.
Failure by the Group or A failure to act appropriately could A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate associated third parties to act result in penalties, adverse press Responsibility function.
These include the continuing activities in accordance with ethical coverage and reputational damage set out in the Great Brand, Great Company section.
with a resulting drop in sales and profit.
The Group relies on a small number of The Group continues to strengthen its supply chain vendors in key product categories, and management function to enable it to evolve and develop its for specialist digital and IT services.
manufacturing base to reduce dependence on key vendors.
Failure of one of these businesses The Group has continued to strengthen its internal digital and to deliver products or services IT teams and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to would have a significant impact internal resources.
Annual financial checks are carried out on on business operations.
62 Principal Risks Risk Impact Mitigation The failure to adequately complete A failure by the Group to deliver The Group has established Beauty as the fifth product the Beauty transition would revenue and profit performance.
division staffed by industry experts from both within adversely affect the Groups return and outside the organisation with priority being placed on investment.
In addition, this on sourcing, distribution and regulatory compliance.
incremental activity could divert management resources resulting in an adverse impact on the Groups existing business.
Major incidents such as natural A major incident at a key location could Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate operational catastrophes, global pandemics significantly impact business risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted operation of the or terrorist attacks affecting operations, with the impact clearly business, particularly in the short-term.
The regional spread one or more of the Groups key varying depending on the location and of the Groups key distribution hubs also helps to mitigate risk.
locations could significantly its nature.
The impact of the loss of a There is a Group incident management framework in place that impact its operations.
distribution hub would clearly differ addresses the reporting and management of major incidents, from a global pandemic, but both and this is tested each year using third party specialists in this would impact revenue and profits.
Tailored plans have also been produced during the year for a number of high impact events.
The significant growth and pace of Failure to effectively manage the pace Governance processes are in place for each major strategic change within the business puts of change will inevitably adversely initiative and these are supplemented by regular meetings pressure on both internal and impact the Groups operations and with senior management to review operational performance.
Management and operational structures are continually reviewed to ensure that these support the Groups growth.
The Groups operations including Failure to comply with these The Group continually monitors and seeks to improve now its Beauty division are subject requirements couldleave the Group its processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, to a broad spectrum of regulatory open to civil and or criminal legal franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the Groups requirements inthe various challenge, significant penalties contractual terms and conditions, its ethical and business jurisdictions in which the Group andreputational damage.
The pace of change and the consistency of application of Specialist teams at Group and regional level, supported legislation can vary significantly by third-party specialists where required, are responsible across these jurisdictions, for ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant to particularly in an environment their roles.
A number of these teams were strengthened where public sector debt is often during the year.
Assurance processes are in place to monitor high and tax revenues arefalling.
compliance, with results being reported to the Group Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
The Group operates in a number Seizure of assets or staff.
Related The Group uses the services of professional consultants of emerging markets which are party business practice that is to advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering new typically more volatile than inconsistent with the Groups markets, to undertake due diligence and to monitor ongoing developed markets, and are subject ethical standards and the UK developments.
The Group works with franchisees or partners to changing economic, regulatory, regulatory environment.
Increased who compensate for its relative lack of experience in a number social and political developments operational costs due to country of these markets.
that are beyond the Groups control.
specific processes driven by the Infrastructure and services also regulatory environment.
tend to be less developed.
Unauthorised use of the Trademarks and other intellectual The Groups global Brand Protection team has continued Groups trademarks and other property IP rights are fundamentally to expand during the year to enable the Group to strengthen proprietary rights.
important to the Groups reputation, its brand protection efforts in a number of high risk markets, success and competitive position.
including in the digital environment.
Given the Groups Unauthorised use of these, as well as emphasis on digital innovation the team places a particular the distribution of counterfeit products, focus on this area.
damages the Burberry brand image and profits.
Where infringements are identified these are addressed through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws which afford varying degrees of protection and enforcement priorities depending on the country.
Consequently, the Group cannot necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing IP issues.
63 Great brand, Great company GReat brand, great company Burberry believes that to be a great brand, it must also be a great company.
Burberry constantly leverages the energy of its creative thinking culture for positive change, from its own organisation, to its business partnerships, wider community engagement and societal and environmental impact.
Commitment to its extended global community is at the heart of the Burberry core values: to Protect, Explore and Inspire, and the business strives to evolve its practices in line with these principles.
1% 830 65% 20% 1% of Group profit before Over 830 audits, visits and Tanneries supplying more Further 20% increase tax donated to charitable trainings conducted in the than 65% of accessories in uptake of global causes, the majority to the global supply chain leather are engaged in Sharesave Scheme Burberry Foundation Burberrys environmental management programme 8,000 155 700 8,000 hours dedicated to 155 young people 700 associates recognised volunteering by associates participated in Burberry for reaching Long Service in 55 cities Create, an immersive milestone anniversaries six-week creative training and employability programme, delivered by Burberry associates 66
