RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.
Understanding the risks implicit in our business and the markets in which we operate provides us with real competitive advantage.
MISSION AND PURPOSE We seek to promote an Our risk management framework environment where: seeks to support our business ambitions, enabling us to select those theres openness and risks that can give us sustainable transparency in how we make returns and closely managing those decisions and manage risks: risks that are unrewarded, and to significant business decisions optimise the capital that we hold are aligned with our strategy, so that we can deliver our strategy.
our capital performance target and our expected returns, RISK CULTURE and consider the effect on our Effective risk management is integral reputation and customers: to our business operations.
managers make decisions in SIMON GADD, the light of the impact on the CHIEF RISK OFFICER People at all levels of the organisation entire Group: and are engaged in the management of business managers own the risks Good risk management is risk.
At the group level, the Group and risk management processes more than having the right Board sets our overall appetite for associated with the activities for policies and procedures in risk: our non-executive led Group which they are responsible.
Its how our people Risk Committee supports the Board behave, the values that they in determining the Groups risk We know that no system of control is work to and the tone set appetite and assessing the Groups fail-safe and we encourage managers by our business leaders.
significant risk exposures: and to report weaknesses and deficiencies executive director led risk committees as soon as they are identied.
seek to ensure risks are managed within acceptable tolerances.
RISK BASED CAPITAL Solvency II is targeted for regulatory We consider risk intrinsically as part of implementation in early 2016. our decision making, whether pricing We completed a three-year programme a product or evaluating a major to prepare for Solvency II in 2012, transaction, assessing the impact signicantly enhancing our economic of the decision on our risk prole capital and risk framework by delivering and our overall risk appetite.
Over the last 12 months weve actively used its output We encourage managers to have as one of our decision analysis tools to a positive attitude to risk and to evaluate our strategic plans, set risk understand the risks that are inherent appetite, allocate capital and evaluate in our business so that they can product pricing.
We also use our ensure we: internal model in the assessment of significant transactions.
take advantage of business opportunities: While there are still elements of meet our business objectives: the SII rules that will need to be control our areas of greatest risk: nalised, we believe that our focus act promptly to x any weakness on developing and using our internal and failure in our processes: and model in the running of our business are confident that we hold the positions us well for the transition to right capital for the risks to which the SII capital regime.
indd 42 14 03 2014 20:48 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS OUR RISK LANDSCAPE The products that we write, the investments that we hold to meet our obligations and the environment in which we operate give rise to a broad range of risks.
Our risk management framework, which is described overleaf, seeks to ensure that we are only exposed to those residual risks for which we have an appetite.
MARKET RISK Investment performance We invest in a range of investment assets including equities, bonds and property to meet the obligations from our insurance products: however, there is a risk that the income and value of these investment assets may uctuate relative to required targets.
Interest rates Interest rate movements and ination can impact the value of the investment assets and ination we hold to meet our obligations, as well as the value of the obligations themselves.
Currency Fluctuations in exchange rates can vary both the value and income from investment assets denominated in foreign currencies, as well as the sterling profits and value of our overseas businesses.
CREDIT RISK Bond default We hold a significant portfolio of corporate bonds to back our annuity business.
The portfolio is diversied across a range of sectors and geographies, but inherently is exposed to the risk of default.
Property lending We also hold property lending and sales and leaseback investments and are inherently counterparties exposed to the risk of default by a borrower or tenant, although we protect our interests by taking security over underlying property.
Banks and the issuers Banking and money market counterparties, the issuers of financial instruments and the ofnancial instruments providers of settlement and custody services may default on their obligations to us.
Reinsurance In using reinsurance in our annuity and protection businesses, we are exposed to the counterparties risk that a reinsurer may default, impacting the payment of claims to us and requiring us to either seek alternative reinsurance arrangements, potentially on less advantageous terms or bear the reinsured risks directly.
INSURANCE RISK Longevity, mortality The pricing of long-term life insurance business requires assumptions to be made for andmorbidity future trends in the life expectancy and general health of those that we insure: with the risk that actual experience may diverge to our assumptions.
Life catastrophe We also make assumptions about the likelihood of catastrophic events that could cause a widespread loss of life or disability within the pool of the lives that we insure.
Persistency lapse Were exposed to the risks that acquisition costs may not be recovered from product margins if policies lapse earlier than we anticipated within our pricing assumptions.
Expense Product pricing must also take account of the future costs of product servicing, with deviations in actual costs presenting the risk of reduced product profitability.
Weather events In pricing household insurance products, we make assumptions about the likelihood of weather events, with the risk that actual experience may diverge from assumptions.
OPERATIONAL RISK People, process, systems Our business processes can be complex, with significant reliance placed upon a and external events combination of IT systems and manual processes.
Weakness or failure of these systems or processes could result in financial loss or adversely affect our customers.
Regulation and The markets in which we operate are highly regulated.
Changes in regulation or legislation legislation can require changes to our products or business processes.
A breach of legislative or regulatory requirements may expose us to financial penalties and damage our reputation.
LIQUIDITY RISK Contingent events Low probability and typically extreme events that if not adequately planned for can result in unanticipated requirements for liquidity.
Collateral Failure to hold sufficient cash or suitable liquid assets to meet collateral requirements for financial instruments, resulting in unplanned disposals of assets at excessive cost.
There are potentially material correlations between all the above risks, with a single event leading to losses on multiple risk types.
These correlations are difficult to estimate though they would tend to be more acute as the underlying risk scenarios become more extreme.
An assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact our business strategy, earnings or profitability are set out on page 48.
Note 8 asset risk, 18 insurance risk and 28 operational risk to the financial statements further describe how the above risks relate to our businesses and the control techniques that we apply to manage them.
indd 43 14 03 2014 20:48 RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.
FRAMEWORK OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RISK APPETITE Sets out our overall attitude to risk, and the ranges and limits Our framework enables the Group of acceptable risk taking.
Board to draw assurance that the risks to which the Group may be exposed RISK TAKING Cascade our risk appetite to our business managers and empower are being appropriately identied managers to make decisions that are consistent with our appetite AUTHORITIES and managed, and that risks that may for risk.
present significant financial loss or damage to our reputation are being RISK POLICIES Formal policies define our approaches to risk management and the necessary control standards to ensure these risks are managed minimised.
The core elements of in line with risk appetite.
our framework are set out below.
RISK Tools that help business managers to identify and evaluate the Risk appetite risks to which we may be exposed and formulate appropriate IDENTIFICATION Our risk appetite expresses the risk mitigation plans.
AND ASSESSMENT types of risk that we are prepared to be exposed to in pursuit of our RISK Our framework to report and support the review of ongoing and business strategy, the minimum emerging risks, and assess actual risk positions relative to the risk MANAGEMENT capital requirements that we wish targets and limits that we set.
INFORMATION to maintain and the degree of volatility of earnings that we will RISK OVERSIGHT Review and challenge by the group chief risk officer CRO seek to avoid.
team of the effectiveness of our risk identication and management processes.
The Group Risk Committee leads an annual review of the Groups risk RISK COMMITTEES Group level committees that oversee the management of risks and challenge how the risk framework is working.
appetite, assessing the continued appropriateness of our key measures and tolerances relative to the risk Our risk appetite sets the ranges and limits of acceptable risk taking exposures of the Group.
As part of the Group Board strategy day, assessment is made of the level of risk RISK APPETITE PRINCIPLES KEY MEASURES taking proposed in the group plan and the capacity for risk taking within the STRATEGY We manage a diversied portfolio in which we Return on overall appetite framework.
accept risk in the normal course of business and capital aim to deliver sustainable returns on risk-based capital in excess of cost of capital.
The Groups risk appetite is approved by the Group Board Weve an appetite for risks we understand Capital on the recommendation of the and are rewarded for, and which are consistent allocation with delivery of our strategic objectives.
and utilisation Group Risk Committee and the group chief executive.
The regular CAPITAL We aim to maintain an appropriate buffer of Capital management information received capital resources over the minimum regulatory coverage ratio by Group Board and Group Risk and economic capital requirements.
Committee includes our risk appetite dashboard setting out actual risk VOLATILITY Weve a low appetite for volatility of earnings: Variance in positions relative to the targets in particular volatility arising from risks where earnings to plan we have more exposure than the wider market.
and limits set in our risk appetite.
CONDUCT, We treat our customers with integrity and Customer and act in a manner that protects or enhances reputation risk CUSTOMER the Group franchise.
dashboard AND REPUTATION LIQUIDITY We expect to be able to meet our payment Liquidity ratio and collateral obligations under extreme, but plausible, liquidity scenarios.
indd 44 14 03 2014 20:48 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS We further express our appetite for the specic risks to which we are exposed as follows: TYPE APPETITE MANAGEMENT MARKET RISK Weve an appetite for market risk within our Weve limited appetite for significant losses or volatility from annuities and with-profits businesses, and market risk and so we set clear risk limits which must our shareholder funds, where be adhered to by group businesses.
CREDIT RISK Weve appetite for credit risk to the extent that Weve limited appetite for significant losses from counterparty accepting this risk enables us to optimise failures and we therefore establish clear risk limits which must policyholder and group risk adjusted returns.
be adhered to by group businesses.
INSURANCE RISK Weve an appetite for longevity, mortality Weve a low appetite for persistency and expense risks.
and morbidity risk together with selected We manage these risks by investigations and monitoring household insurance risks as we expect to experience and reect the conclusions in our product design add value by accepting such risks.
Weve limited appetite for exposure to weather events and purchase excess of loss reinsurance to protect against this risk.
We also use reassurance to manage significant aggregate exposures to longevity, mortality and morbidity risks.
OPERATIONAL RISK Weve very limited appetite for large operational We aim to implement effective controls to reduce operational losses due to the likely customer impact, risk exposures except where the costs of such controls exceed reputational damage and opportunity costs.
LIQUIDITY RISK Weve no appetite to fail to meet our obligations We maintain at group level sufficient liquid assets and standby when they fall due or to incur material losses facilities to meet a prudent estimate of the Groups cash outows, on forced asset sales to meet obligations.
as identied through annual planning processes.
Risk taking authorities Risk mitigation changes in the prole of existing We cascade the parameters of our risk We deploy a range of risk management and emerging risks.
The assessment appetite to our business managers techniques to manage and mitigate process evaluates the risks that are through Risk and Capital Mandates.
risks, thereby controlling our risk inherent in our products as well Our mandates articulate the product exposures in line with our risk limits.
as those that are presented from types and features that may be For example, we use derivative changes in the environments that written: the target capital positions instruments to hedge unrewarded we operate in.
and ranges of earnings volatility risks as part of our asset liability within which the overall prole management activity and reinsurance Own Risk Solvency Assessment of risks should be managed: and programmes to transfer significant Our risk identication and assessment tolerances for specic risk exposures.
aggregations and concentrations process forms part of our broader Activities that would result in a of insurance risk exposures.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment business operating outside agreed Our framework of controls includes process, designed to evaluate the parameters require formal approval documented underwriting policies resilience of our balance sheet to from the Group centre.
and structured delegated pricing a range of market conditions and and underwriting authorities.
external events and that we maintain Risk policies It also includes investment policies our target levels of capital.
Risk control which take into account the nature We have established strategies of our liabilities, guarantees and Risk management information for managing market, insurance, other embedded options given Our risk management information credit, liquidity and operational risk.
is structured to enable all significant Formal policies define our approaches risk positions to be monitored: to risk management and the minimum Risk identication and compare actual risk exposures and control standards that should be assessment capital positions to targets, limits applied in managing our significant Review Process and tolerances established as part risk exposures.
We operate a risk identication and of our risk appetite framework: and assessment process under which assess the delivery of our target our businesses regularly consider customer outcomes.
indd 45 14 03 2014 20:48 RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.
Risk oversight STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS Group Risk and the Group CRO Our Group Risk team plays an integral role in the strategic The group chief risk officer CRO, who planning process, assessing the risk prole of the plan is independent of the business line, and proposed risk taking.
leads our group risk team.
The group CRO works closely with the Group Risk Committee and RISK APPETITE the Group Board on articulating acceptable risk taking and ensuring REVIEW AND The group CRO evaluates the group strategic plan, the the effective operation of our risk and ANALYSIS impact of proposed risk taking and aggregation of risks.
The group risk team also provides objective advice DEBATE AND The Group Board and Risk Committee consider the Group and guidance on a range of risk CHALLENGE CROs assessment of proposed risk taking.
matters to our business managers, including matters such as product RISK TAKING Working with the Group Board, the Group CRO advises on development, business transactions CAPACITY the Groups appetite for the prole of risk presented in the strategic plan.
The team also carries out assessment of the groups economic capital requirements to STRATEGIC PLAN confirm that they meet regulatory solvency requirements.
ALIGNMENT TO Risk limits and tolerances, aligned with the groups risk RISK APPETITE appetite are cascaded to business units.
Divisional Risk ofcers During 2013 we reorganised RISK Risk mitigation programmes are developed with input MANAGEMENT our group risk team, appointing from the Group Risk team to ensure risks are managed STRATEGIES to agreed tolerances.
divisional risk ofcers to each of our divisions.
This alignment reinforces GROUP CRO The group CROs monitoring plan is aligned with the risk our risk framework with each of PLAN areas identied within the group strategic plan.
our divisional leaders having a risk expert on their management team.
Each divisional risk officer also has CAPITAL a reporting line to the group CRO STRESS AND The groups formal programme of stress and scenario tests to maintain their independence.
SCENARIO are set with input from the Group CRO on the economic, TESTING market and business stresses.
ASSESSMENT Capital requirement are monitored within each business AND unit.
The Group Risk team provides oversight of significant AGGREGATION risk aggregations and variances to plan.
ASSESSING Using the output of our internal model the Group CRO CAPITAL independently validates the businesss assessment of SUFFICIENCY the sufciency of capital to deliver strategic objectives.
indd 46 14 03 2014 20:48 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS EVALUATING TRANSACTIONS Risk Committees Three lines of defence The Group operates a three lines of defence risk governance model.
Whether its a direct investment The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for the groups risk or a business acquisition, as well as management framework.
The Group Risk Committee supported assessing strategic t and profitability, by group risk led by our group CRO, serves as the focal point we undertake detailed evaluation of the of risk management activities.
risks that new opportunities present and our appetite for those risks.
Our group CRO plays an integral OUR THREE LINES ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ASSOCIATED COMMITTEES role in facilitating the assessment OF DEFENCE AND THEIR ROLE of risks.
Alongside the formal business proposal for each significant transaction, the group CRO presents a separate report setting out his 1 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT DIVISIONAL COMMITTEES The groups business divisions are Risk management committees assessment of the risks and our RISK TAKING responsible for risk taking, within established within each of capacity to manage them.
the parameters of our risk our business divisions provide appetite, and are accountable a forum for the review of for the management risk in line material risk exposures and with policies and procedures risk mitigation activities.
established in the groups risk and capital management framework.
2 GROUP RISK GROUP RISK COMMITTEE USING REINSURANCE Advises on risk appetite: The Committees primary role RISK CONTROL establishes the groups risk and is to provide guidance to the AND capital management framework: Board in relation to the groups We use reinsurance extensively in OVERSIGHT evaluates the management of risk management policies and our protection businesses.
As well key risks: assesses the overall procedures and advice on what as managing exposures to mortality operation of the groups internal constitutes acceptable risk taking.
model and considers the and morbidity risks, and providing sufciency of capital to deliver resilience against extreme events, the groups strategic plans.
working with our reinsurers has enabled us to further rene our underwriting practices and the pricing of risk.
We are increasingly 3 GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE using reinsurance within our The groups internal audit function The responsibilities of the INDEPENDENT annuities business.
We already provides Independent assurance Committee include advising ASSURANCE reinsure a proportion of enhanced on the operation and effectiveness the Board on the effectiveness of business risk management, the of the groups internal control annuity business and we continue group risk oversight and challenge environment and risk to develop ways to reinsure the processes, and the processes management systems.
longevity risk in our bulk annuity in support of the groups internal model.
By using reinsurance we can continue to grow our annuities book in a way that both optimises our risk and capital and minimise earnings volatility.
Executive level risk committees Beneath the Group Risk Committee is a structure of executive director led committees providing more focused review and challenge of specic risks to the Group and reviewing the effective operation of the risk framework.
indd 47 14 03 2014 20:48 RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.
OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Set out below is an assessment of current principal risks and uncertainties.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent risk exposures and high level control processes are set out at Notes 8, 18 and 28 of the financial statements.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION Changes in regulation or legislation may have The implementation of the Retail Distribution RDR We seek to actively participate with a detrimental effect on our strategy.
Legislation at the start of 2013 has resulted in dramatic shifts government and regulatory bodies in the and government scal policy inuence our in the distribution landscape.
The retrenchment by UK and Europe to assist in the evaluation product design, the period of retention of the banks and challenges to IFA distribution models of change so as to develop outcomes products and our required reserves for future in response to RDR and other regulatory initiatives, that meet the needs of all stakeholders.
Regulation defines the overall together with a slow transition of consumers to Internally, we evaluate the impact of all framework for the design, marketing and the RDR model has presented broader market legislative and regulatory change as distribution of our products: and the prudential uncertainty for products that rely on customers part of our formal risk identication and capital that we hold.
The nature of long term access to advice.
Solvency II is targeted for assessment processes, with material business can result in some changes in regulation implementation in early 2016.
Revised capital matters being considered at the Group having a retrospective effect on our businesses.
calibrations for long term business provide Risk Committee and the Group Board.
significant changes in regulation may reduce sufficient exibility to address many of the We maintain a exible distribution model our earnings and profitability or require us to adverse capital impacts for UK insurance rms.
to respond to changing market trends.
Challenges remain, however, in ensuring that final implementation is proportionate and cost effective for the insurance sector.
Investment market performance or conditions Global investment markets have returned to As illustrated on pages 16 and 17 we model in the broader economy may adversely impact pre-financial crisis levels, responding both to the our business plans across a broad range of our earnings and profitability.
The performance more positive economic outlook and the conditions economic scenarios and take account of and liquidity of investment markets, interest created by the monetary policies being exercised alternative economic outlooks within our rate movements and ination impact the value by central banks.
There is limited resilience, overall business strategy.
As part of our of investment assets we hold in shareholders however, in the current environment for shocks business plans we have sought to ensure funds and those to meet the obligations arising such as those from an abrupt change in monetary focus upon those market segments that from insurance business.
Interest rate movement policy, with potential for significant falls in the we expect to be resilient in projected and ination can also change the value of the value of certain asset classes should markets conditions.
Details of our business strategy obligations.
We use a range of techniques to reassess returns.
Sensitivities to manage mismatches between assets and interest rates, exposure to worldwide equity liabilities.
However, financial loss can still arise markets and currencies are set out on pages from adverse investment markets.
significant falls in investment values can reduce the fee income of our investment management business.
Broader economic conditions impact the timing of the purchase and the period of retention of retail financial services products.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other types 2013 saw a further narrowing of credit spreads We actively manage our exposure to default of counterparty the Group is exposed to the risk reecting market confidence in the issuers of risks, setting counterparty selection criteria of financial loss.
A systematic default event investment grade bonds.
We have continued to and exposure limits and hold reserves within the corporate sector, or a major sovereign experience low levels of default on our corporate against our assessment of counterparty debt debt event, could result in dislocation of bond bond portfolio.
There remains, however, a range defaults.
We continue to diversify the asset markets, signicantly widening credit spreads, of factors that could trigger write downs in our classes backing our annuities business, to and may result in default of even strongly rated investment assets.
These factors include a deterioration include the use of property lending, sale issuers of debt, exposing us to financial loss.
in the confidence in banks within the eurozone or the and leaseback and other forms of direct We are also exposed to banking, money market currency area itself: a failure to definitively resolve investment.
Our bond default provisions are and reinsurance counterparties, and settlement, the US government debt ceiling: and a financial crisis set out at page 41.
Exposures to credit risk custody and other bespoke business services, in emerging markets.
are set out on page 160 and sensitivities to a failure of which could expose us to both changes in credit spreads on page 173. financial loss and operational disruption of our business processes.
As a UK-based Group, our earnings are As a significant participant in the long-term savings We actively manage our brand and seek inuenced by the performance and perception markets, we are exposed to changes in consumer to differentiate our business model from of the UK financial services sector as a whole.
We are also exposed to increased costs that of our competitors, focusing on our The financial crisis, subsequent investment of regulatory compliance through regulatory and customers needs through a diversied performance and low interest rate environment, legislative responses to events in the financial portfolio of risk, savings and investment together with consumers perceptions of the services sector.
Recent examples include the EU businesses.
We also actively engage with robustness of financial institutions, may impact transaction tax and the central clearing of certain our regulators to support understanding consumer attitudes to long-term savings.
derivative instruments, which would increase the of the risk drivers in the markets in which Regulatory actions may also adversely impact costs associated with pension savings products we operate, and highlight matters where consumers perception of the value of insurance and annuities, respectively.
we believe the industry need to change.
products and result in changes to the regulatory and legislative environment in which we operate.
indd 48 14 03 2014 20:48 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION Reserves for long-term business may require We regularly appraise the assumptions underpinning We undertake significant analysis of revision as a result of changes in experience, the business that we write.
In our annuities business longevity and mortality risks to ensure regulation or legislation.
The writing of long-term we are, however, exposed to factors such as an appropriate premium is charged for insurance business requires the setting of improvements in medical science beyond those the risks we take on and that our reserves assumptions for long-term trends in factors anticipated leading to unexpected changes in life remain appropriate.
We remain focused on such as mortality, lapse rates and persistency, expectancy.
In protection business we remain developing a comprehensive understanding valuation interest rates, expenses and credit inherently exposed to loss from events causing of annuitant mortality and we continue defaults.
Actual experience may result in the widespread mortality morbidity or significant policy to evolve and develop our underwriting need to recalibrate these assumptions reducing lapse rates.
As illustrated by the implementation of capabilities.
The sensitivities of our profitability.
Forced changes in reserves can also the EU gender neutral pricing legislation, there is business to a range of scenarios are set be required because of regulatory or legislative also potential for legislative intervention in the out on page 173.
We also continue to ensure intervention in the way that products are priced, pricing of insurance products irrespective of risk that legislators recognise the benets reducing profitability and future earnings.
factors, such as age or health.
to consumers of pricing insurance products based on the risk factors that each policy presents.
The Group may not maximise opportunities from Macro trends in the markets in which we operate As set out at pages 18 and 19, weve clear structural and other changes within the financial include an ageing population, the increasing strategies to respond to the macro trends.
services sector, adversely impacting future use of digital technologies and significant reform in Risks arising from macro trends have earnings.
significant changes in the markets in the provision of state welfare.
Within the investment been considered as part of the Group which we operate may require the review and management business asset classes are increasingly Risk Committee focused business and risk realignment of elements of our business strategy.
homogeneous providing opportunities for reviews.
The Committee and the Group A failure to be sufciently responsive to potential businesses with scale such as us.
The retrenchment Board has also debated the risks of change and understand the implication to of the banks also provides opportunity for insurance management stretch, with strategic projects our businesses, or the incorrect execution rms to participate in investment and lending being re-focused as appropriate.
As set of change may impact the achievement of activities.
Responding to these macro trends out on page 8 during 2013 we undertook a our strategic objectives.
potentially creates organisational challenges and significant re-structure of our businesses management stretch across the range of initiatives.
to deliver our strategic responses to the changes in the markets in which we operate.
A material failure in our business processes As we grow we continue to invest in our system Our risk governance model set out on may result in unanticipated financial loss or capabilities and business processes to ensure page 47 seeks to ensure that business reputation damage.
We have constructed our that we meet the expectations of our customers: management are actively engaged in framework of internal controls to minimise the comply with regulatory, legal and financial reporting ensuring an appropriate control environment risk of unanticipated financial loss or damage to requirements: and mitigate the risks of loss or is in place.
The group risk team provides our reputation.
However, no system of internal reputational damage from operational risk events.
expert advice and guidance on the required control can completely eliminate the risk of error, The restructure of our business divisions seeks control environment, together with objective financial loss, fraudulent actions or reputational to support the positioning of appropriate resources challenge in the way risks are being managed.
Our plans for growth inherently will to manage these risks.
Our internal audit function provides increase the prole of operational risks across independent assurance on the adequacy our businesses.
and effectiveness of our controls.
The work of the Group Audit Committee in reviewing our internal control system is set out on page 64.
The financial services sector is increasingly The financial services sector has seen a significant Were focused on maintaining a robust and becoming a target of cyber crime.
As we and rise in attempts by third parties to seek and exploit secure IT environment that protects our our business partners increasingly digitalise perceived vulnerabilities in IT systems.
Potential customer and corporate data.
Working with our businesses, we are inherently exposed to threats include denial of service attacks, network our business partners we deploy control the risk that third parties may seek to disrupt intrusions to steal data for the furtherance of techniques to evaluate the security of our our on-line business operations, steal customer financial crime, and the electronic diversion of funds.
systems and proactively address emerging data or perpetrate acts of fraud using digital threats.
During 2013 the Group Risk media.
A significant cyber event could result Committee reviewed cyber risks and our in reputation damage and financial loss.
control framework, with further review scheduled for 2014.
We remain vigilant to the range of risks, however, the evolving nature of cyber threats means that residual risks will remain.
indd 49 14 03 2014 20:48 IN THIS SECTION Board of directors 52 Letter from the chairman 54 Corporate governance 56 Nominations Committee report 62 Audit Committee report 64 Group Risk Committee report 68 Directors report on remuneration 70 O ur housing shortage has been decades in the making, and is now so severe it will take innovation and creative thinking to tackle.
CAMPBELL ROBB, CEO, SHELTER SPEECH TO POLICY EXCHANGE, NOVEMBER 2013 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p050-069.
indd 50 14 03 2014 20:57 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 51 80038 L&G p050-069.
