Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK OVeRVIeW Effective risk management, governance and control Managing risk effectively is important for any bank and fundamental to our Achievements in 2013 strategy.
We are now a more efficient, low risk, uK focused retail and commercial Impairment bank.
This has been achieved by maintaining a conservative business model Our impairment charge improved by 47 per cent to 3,004 million, mainly which embodies a risk culture founded on a prudent appetite for risk.
driven by the reduction in non-core assets and the sustained improvement in Our approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework and a Group asset quality.
strong risk management culture which guides how our employees approach Complaints their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
The amount During 2013 banking complaints fell to 1.0 per 1,000 accounts excluding and type of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or tolerate, otherwise PPI, compared with 1.5 at the end of 2011, and 2.4 at the start of 2010.
Our known as risk appetite, works in tandem with our strategy and is approved 2014 reduction target was met and exceeded by September 2013. by the Board.
Our risk appetite is then embedded within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
Loan to deposit ratio Our funding position remains strong with an improved loan to deposit ratio of 113 per cent, from 121 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The core loan to Risk as a strategic differentiator deposit ratio fell to 100 per cent from 101 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The Group strategy and risk appetite were developed together to ensure one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivers on becoming Credit ratings the best bank for our customers whilst helping Britain prosper and creating Credit ratings reflected the progress the Group had made on delivery sustainable growth over time.
During 2013 both Fitch and Standard & Poors upgraded lloyds Banks standalone rating to bbb, therefore affirming its long-term Risks are identified, managed and mitigated using our Risk Management credit rating at A.
The principal risks we face, which could significantly impact the delivery of our strategy, are discussed on pages 133 to 196.
Improved capital position Our common equity tier 1 CeT1 capital position has continued to build We believe effective risk management can be a strategic differentiator, to 10.3 per cent on a pro forma fully loaded CRD IV basis, increasing by in particular: 2.2 per cent in the year, in line with our capital generative strategy.
Sustainable growth Non-core asset reduction The role of risk is to support the business in delivering sustainable We made substantial capital accretive non-core asset reductions during growth, which is achieved through informed risk decision making and the year and, together with additional sales announced in October, our full superior risk and capital management, supported by a consistent year 2014 target of less than 70 billion of non-core assets was achieved by risk-focused culture across the Group.
Our year end position of 63.5 billion is ahead of plan.
Conservative approach to risk We have a fully embedded conservative approach to, and prudent State aid commitments appetite for, risk with risk culture and appetite driven from the top.
In line with strengthening the balance sheet, we continued our commitment to reduce our assets and met our target in December 2012, two years Strong control framework ahead of the mandated completion date.
In May 2013, we received formal This framework is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk confirmation from the european Commission that we were released from management as it ensures appropriate engagement in developing risk this commitment.
appetite and that business units operate within approved parameters.
Risk transformation Effective risk analysis, management and reporting The Risk Transformation Programme has driven the clarity on where risk This identifies opportunities as well as risks and ensures risks are allocates transformational investment funding in order to deliver the most managed appropriately and consistently with strategy.
Our principal efficient and effective returns for the Group.
This has ensured that the risks and performance against risk appetite are monitored and investments made deliver the benefits required and underpin the Group's reported regularly to senior management using quantitative and targeted objective of sustainable growth.
qualitative analysis and are subject to relevant stress testing.
This enables us to understand the risk in the business at both an individual Priorities for 2014 risk type and aggregate portfolio level.
Deliver the strategic plan Business focus and accountability underpin the Groups strategy to be the best bank for customers and Managing risk effectively is a key focus and is one of the five criteria support sustainable growth in the uK economy.
within the Group Balanced Scorecard on which business areas and individual performance are judged.
Our approach to risk means that Customer focus businesses remain accountable for risk but a strong and independent Put our customers at the heart of our business through a clear conduct risk function also helps ensure adherence to the Groups risk and led approach and a strong understanding of all our stakeholders, control frameworks.
Continued investment in risk systems and supported by the codes of responsibility, applied to both current processes will also help differentiate our risk management approach.
activities and historic legacy issues.
Operational agility More on 123 Risk management evolve risk into an agile, flexible function that supports the business in its next phase of growth with effective working across the Group.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Risk governance Risk management strategy and risk appetite are developed and reviewed structure designed to ensure that our risk appetite, policies, procedures, in tandem with Group strategy.
The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk controls and reporting are fully in line with regulations, law, corporate management framework to ensure a robust and consistent approach to risk governance and industry good-practice.
management is applied across all business areas and all risk types in order to Our approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong drive improvements in its risk profile in line with risk appetite.
risk management culture which ensures that business units remain The framework articulates individual and collective accountabilities for risk accountable for risk and therefore guides the way all employees approach management, risk oversight and risk assurance and supports the discharge their work, behave and make decisions.
Board-level engagement, coupled of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators.
It establishes with the direct involvement of senior management in Group-wide risk issues a common risk language which assigns risks to which the Group is exposed at Group executive Committee level, ensures that issues are promptly into categories which are used consistently to support risk aggregation and escalated and remediation plans are initiated where required.
It will evolve and be periodically updated to reflect any changes in interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures relies the nature of our business and the external environment.
upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
A strong control framework remains a The framework outlines the key risk management activities undertaken priority for the Group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk consistently across the Group for all types of risk.
Performance is optimised by allowing business units to Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board, operate within approved parameters.
down through the management hierarchy, supported by a committee based More on 129 risk governance Accountability for ensuring risks ar e managed Confirmation of Risk Framework consistently with Board approved Risk Framework effectiveness and underlying risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy.
Board Authorities Approval of the risk management framework Role and Group-wide risk principles of the Board Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles to be recommended Through Board-delegated Executive Authorities to the Board.
Role of there is effective oversight of risk management Be exemplars of risk management senior consistent with risk appetite management Determined by the Board and S enior Management.
The risk appetite framework ensures our Risk Business units formulate their strategy in line with risks are being managed in line with appetite the Groups risk appetite our risk appetite Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide Supports a consistent approach to Governance behaviour and risk decision making.
enterprise-wide behaviour and frameworks Consistency is delivered through the policy decision making framework and risk committee structures Monitoring, oversight and assurance To maintain a robust control framework, Three lines o f Mandate of the ensures effective risk managemen t identifying and escalating emerging Risk Division across the Group defence model risks and supporting sustainable growth Defined process es exist to identify, This is carried out by all three lines of Risk monitoring, Risk identification, measure and control our current defence and is an integral part of our aggregation and reporting measurement and control and emerging risks control effectiveness assessment In line with our Code of Our processes and infrastructure Resources Responsibility.
are being invested in to further Culture and capabilities Culture ensures performance, improve our risk management risk and reward are aligned capabilities Risk-specific needs Risk-type specific defined in detail for sub-frameworks Primary risk drivers implementation by each business Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK OVeRVIeW The most significant risks faced by the Group which could impact on the success of delivering against the Groups strategic objectives together with key mitigating actions are outlined below.
Principal risks Key mitigating actions Credit policy incorporating prudent lending criteria aligned with the Credit risk Board approved risk appetite to effectively manage credit risk.
As a provider of credit facilities to personal and commercial customers, together with financial institutions and sovereigns, any adverse changes in Clearly defined levels of authority ensure we lend appropriately the economic and market environment we operate in, or the credit quality and responsibly with separation of origination and sanctioning activities.
and or behaviour of our borrowers and counterparties would reduce Robust credit processes and controls including well-established the value of our assets and increase our write-downs and allowances for committees to ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, impairment losses, adversely impacting profitability.
considered and controlled with independent credit risk assurance.
Customer focused conduct strategy implemented to ensure customers are Conduct risk at the heart of everything we do.
As a major financial services provider we face significant conduct risk, including selling products to customers which do not meet their needs: Product approval, review processes and outcome testing supported by failing to deal with customers complaints effectively: not meeting conduct management information.
customers expectations: and exhibiting behaviours which do not meet Clearer customer accountabilities for colleagues, including rewards with market or regulatory standards.
learn from past mistakes, including root cause analysis.
A rates hedging programme is in place to reduce liability risk.
Market risk We face a number of key market risks including interest rate risk across the Board approved pensions risk appetite covering interest rate, credit Banking and Insurance businesses.
However, our most significant market spreads and equity risks.
risk is from the Defined Benefit Pension Schemes where asset and liability Credit assets and alternative assets are being purchased by the pension movements impact on our capital position.
schemes as equities are sold.
Continually review IT system architecture to ensure systems are resilient, Operational risk readily available for our customers and secure from cyber attack.
We face a number of key operational risks including fraud losses and failings in our customer processes.
The availability, resilience and security Implement actions from IT resilience review conducted in 2013 to of our core IT systems is the most significant.
reflect enhanced demands on IT, both in terms of customer and regulator expectations.
Hold a large pool of liquid primary assets to meet cash and Funding and liquidity risk collateral outflows.
Our funding and liquidity position is supported by a significant and stable customer deposit base.
However, a deterioration in either our or the uKs Maintain a further large pool of secondary assets which can be used credit rating or a sudden and significant withdrawal of customer deposits to access Central Bank liquidity facilities.
would adversely impact our funding and liquidity position.
Stress test the Groups liquidity position against a range of scenarios.
Close monitoring of actual capital ratios to ensure that we comply with Capital risk current regulatory capital requirements and are well positioned to meet Our future capital position is potentially at risk from adverse financial future requirements.
performance and the introduction of higher capital requirements for distinct risks, sectors or as a consequence of a specific uK regulatory requirement.
Internal stress testing results to evidence sufficient levels of capital For example in 2013, the PRA introduced significant additional capital adequacy for the Group under various scenarios.
requirements on an adjusted basis that major uK banks are required to meet.
We can accumulate additional capital in a variety of ways including raising equity via a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
The legal, Regulatory and Mandatory Change Committee ensures we Regulatory risk drive forward activity to develop plans for regulatory changes and track Due to the nature of the industry we operate in we have to comply with a progress against those plans.
complex and demanding regulatory change agenda.
Regulatory initiatives we have been working on in 2013 include CRD IV, Mortgage Market Continued investment in our people, processes and IT systems is enabling Review, Dodd-Frank and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 2010.
The us to meet our regulatory commitments.
sanctions for failing to comply far outweigh the costs of implementation.
Most eu State aid commitments now met with the divestment of the State aid rebranded TSB retail banking business outstanding.
HM Treasury currently holds 32.7 per cent of the Groups share capital.
We continue to operate without government interference in day-to-day now progressing the divestment of TSB through an Initial Public Offering management decisions, however there is a risk that a change in subject to regulatory and european Commission approval, to ensure best government priorities could result in the current framework agreement value for our shareholders and certainty for our customers and colleagues.
being replaced, leading to interference in the operations of the Group.
The divested business, rebranded TSB, has operated as a separate Failure to meet the eu State aid commitments arising from this business within lloyds Banking Group since September 2013. government support could lead to sanctions.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Principal risks Key mitigating actions Key risk indicators Future focus Credit policy incorporating prudent lending criteria aligned with the Commentary Continue to support the uK economy Credit risk 1 Impairment charge Asset quality ratio Board approved risk appetite to effectively manage credit risk.
Through non-core asset reduction and effective through appropriate lending to SMes and As a provider of credit facilities to personal and commercial customers, 5.7bn 1.02% risk management of both existing and new first-time buyers.
together with financial institutions and sovereigns, any adverse changes in Clearly defined levels of authority ensure we lend appropriately business, we have seen sustained improvements the economic and market environment we operate in, or the credit quality and responsibly with separation of origination and sanctioning activities.
0.57% in credit quality and reduction in impairments.
and or behaviour of our borrowers and counterparties would reduce 3.0bn Robust credit processes and controls including well-established the value of our assets and increase our write-downs and allowances for committees to ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, More on credit risk impairment losses, adversely impacting profitability.
133 considered and controlled with independent credit risk assurance.
2012 2013 2012 2013 Commentary Customer focused conduct strategy implemented to ensure customers are Continued reduction in complaint levels and Conduct risk Banking complaints per We are continuing our journey to embed the at the heart of everything we do.
As a major financial services provider we face significant conduct risk, 1,00 0 accounts excl.
PPI conduct strategy and be the industry leader for including selling products to customers which do not meet their needs: Product approval, review processes and outcome testing supported by 1.1 complaints performance.
1.0 failing to deal with customers complaints effectively: not meeting conduct management information.
More on conduct risk 163 learn from past mistakes, including root cause analysis.
2012 2013 Commentary A rates hedging programme is in place to reduce liability risk.
Pensions deficit Continue to effectively manage the Defined Market risk Volatility in the Defined Benefit Pension Schemes Benefit Pension Scheme to secure pensions We face a number of key market risks including interest rate risk across the Board approved pensions risk appetite covering interest rate, credit 957m is reducing as we target rates hedging and 787m provisions to members and minimise the Banking and Insurance businesses.
More on market risk 164 2012 2013 Stress and scenario testing.
Availability of core systems Commentary Continually review IT system architecture to ensure systems are resilient, Increased investment in IT resilience.
Operational risk Through effective control activities interruptions readily available for our customers and secure from cyber attack.
99.90% 99.94% We face a number of key operational risks including fraud losses and Risk appetite monitoring for critical business to customer service and operational losses for failings in our customer processes.
The availability, resilience and security Implement actions from IT resilience review conducted in 2013 to processes.
2013 have remained within the Board approved of our core IT systems is the most significant.
reflect enhanced demands on IT, both in terms of customer and appetite limits.
More on 169 operational risk 2012 2013 Primary liquidity Commentary Hold a large pool of liquid primary assets to meet cash and Continue to meet all current regulatory ratios Funding and liquidity risk Core loan to wholesale funding 1 The primary and secondary liquidity assets collateral outflows.
1 yr maturity deposit ratio and ensure we meet all future regulatory ratios.
Our funding and liquidity position is supported by a significant and stable provide a substantial buffer in the event of an 2.0 101% 100% customer deposit base.
However, a deterioration in either our or the uKs Maintain a further large pool of secondary assets which can be used 1.7 Further reduction of the loan to deposit ratio.
credit rating or a sudden and significant withdrawal of customer deposits to access Central Bank liquidity facilities.
The Group is now in a position where the core Stress test the Groups liquidity position against a range of scenarios.
loan book is fully funded by core deposits.
More on funding and 171 liquidity risk 2012 2013 2012 2013 Commentary Close monitoring of actual capital ratios to ensure that we comply with Capital risk Implement remaining non-core run-off and CRD IV fully loaded Risk-weighted 1 Significant progress has been made in current regulatory capital requirements and are well positioned to meet CET1 ratio assets prevailing rules disposals to be net capital accretive.
Our future capital position is potentially at risk from adverse financial strengthening the balance sheet and future requirements.
2 performance and the introduction of higher capital requirements for distinct 10.3% 310.3bn expect, prior to any dividend, to generate capital position through our strongly capital 263.9bn risks, sectors or as a consequence of a specific uK regulatory requirement.
8.1% Internal stress testing results to evidence sufficient levels of capital fully loaded CeT1 capital of around generative strategy.
For example in 2013, the PRA introduced significant additional capital adequacy for the Group under various scenarios.
2.5 percentage points over the next 2 years.
We can accumulate additional capital in a variety of ways including raising More on capital risk 178 equity via a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
2012 2013 2012 2013 Commentary The legal, Regulatory and Mandatory Change Committee ensures we Legal, regulatory and mandatory Ongoing constructive engagement Regulatory risk investment spend We continue to build constructive relationships drive forward activity to develop plans for regulatory changes and track with regulators.
Due to the nature of the industry we operate in we have to comply with a with our regulators in order to effectively progress against those plans.
402m complex and demanding regulatory change agenda.
Regulatory initiatives Continued compliance with the regulatory manage the regulatory change agenda.
323m we have been working on in 2013 include CRD IV, Mortgage Market Continued investment in our people, processes and IT systems is enabling change agenda.
Review, Dodd-Frank and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 2010.
More on 192 regulatory risk 2012 2013 Commentary Most eu State aid commitments now met with the divestment of the TSB will be divested through an Initial State aid Government shareholding We continue to work closely with the european rebranded TSB retail banking business outstanding.
Public Offering, subject to regulatory and HM Treasury currently holds 32.7 per cent of the Groups share capital.
39.2% Commission, HM Treasury, PRA, FCA and european Commission approval.
We continue to operate without government interference in day-to-day now progressing the divestment of TSB through an Initial Public Offering 32.7% the Monitoring Trustee appointed by the management decisions, however there is a risk that a change in subject to regulatory and european Commission approval, to ensure best Continue to support the government in the european Commission to ensure the successful government priorities could result in the current framework agreement value for our shareholders and certainty for our customers and colleagues.
process of returning the Group back to implementation of the Restructuring Plan and being replaced, leading to interference in the operations of the Group.
The divested business, rebranded TSB, has operated as a separate Failure to meet the eu State aid commitments arising from this 2012 2013 business within lloyds Banking Group since September 2013.
1 These key risk indicators are also key performance indicators KPIs.
government support could lead to sanctions.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 44 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial results Summary of Group results 45 Divisional results 56 Other financial information 66 Five year financial summary 68
