Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 126 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Emerging risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
Competition Interventions by the competition authorities in response to a return to profitability or to perceived or actual market inefficiencies could change the competition landscape and possibly impact market structures and margins.
This risk is underlined by the creation of the new Competition and Markets Authority and the introduction of a competition mandate for the FCA.
Key mitigating actions Implementation of the Groups Conduct Strategy, applying value for money principles, and ensuring that the customer is at the heart of the Groups business planning.
The Group is working with the FCA on using behavioural economics and customer trials to improve customer outcomes.
Application of the risk management framework to competition risks across the Group.
Evolution of conduct expectations The Consumer Credit regulatory regime is in a period of transition and will be transferred from the Office of Fair Trading OFT to the FCA in April 2014 to complement its current mandate.
It is possible that the FCA will adopt a different approach and apply a wide range of enforcement powers.
Key mitigating actions Rigorous implementation of Conduct Strategy across the Group.
Proactive regulatory advice and challenge to be applied across the Group.
Programmes in place to deliver redress for customers where identified.
Continue work to prepare for the FCA approach on consumer credit regulation.
Ring-fencing and resolution planning Ring-fencing legislation and final rules on Resolution Planning will impact the Groups strategy and the capacity cost to serve customers effectively.
The dimensions of the ring-fence may challenge the Groups future shape and the scope of its activities while an effective Resolution Plan may prompt structural change in order to make the Group more resolvable in a crisis.
Without a robust Resolution Plan, the Group could face higher costs of capital liquidity.
Key mitigating actions Ongoing engagement with HM Treasury, PRA and the Boe on the evolving uK regulatory framework, and impact of eu Directives.
Coordinated scenario analysis and planning through the Ring-Fencing and Resolution Programme under GeC sponsorship.
Mobilisation of resources across the Group to assess impacts and propose potential responses aligned to Group strategy.
Evolving requirements on capital While there is now greater clarity on regulatory capital requirements, there remains some uncertainty as uK and european regulatory frameworks continue to evolve.
For example, in 2013, the PRA introduced significant additional capital requirements on an adjusted basis that major uK banks are required to meet.
Areas of uncertainty include the calibration of the leverage ratio in the uK, evolving CRD IV technical standards and potential changes to the calculation of capital requirements i. e. risk-weighted assets.
Key mitigating actions The Group has made significant progress and continues to deliver on its strategy of strengthening the balance sheet, including its capital position, to improve the resilience of the Group.
The Group has strong governance, processes and controls which, combined with the Groups proactive management of risk, result in an appropriate level of capital.
Technology Internet and mobile technologies are changing customer behaviour, leading to changes in the banking model.
Major changes in payments are also expected over next two to five years.
The cyber risk landscape has continued to evolve over the last 18 months.
Key mitigating actions Increased focus on digital, demonstrated by the creation of the Digital, Marketing and Customer Development function.
IT resilience improvement programme following the 2013 review.
Development of customer focused IT risk appetite and refreshed cyber strategy with refined risk appetite.
Culture A cultural change is needed in banking to restore trust, with greater evidence of genuinely client-centred behaviour and enterprise-wide management of risks.
Key mitigating actions Further embedding and implementation of the Groups Risk Management Framework.
Continuing work to embed a strong, customer-centric and robust risk culture, alongside wider Group Cultural Transformation activities.
engagement in Chartered Banker: Professional Standards Board and roll out of the Foundation Standards and planning for the leadership Standards.
Assessment of Group actions against the findings of the Barclays Salz Review and response to the various components of the Banking Reform Act.
Scottish independence The impact of a yes vote in favour of Scottish independence is uncertain.
The outcome could have a material impact on compliance costs, the tax position, and cost of funding for the Group.
Key mitigating actions Monitoring and assessment of the potential impact on the Groups business and impact on customers of a vote in favour of Scottish independence.
