40 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT We are subject to a variety of risks which may have an impact on our ability to deliver on our strategy.
As our Group has grown we have enhanced our risk management capabilities to ensure that we can maintain our trajectory, while protecting the value of our business and the integrity of our brand.
The components of the ERMF are as follows: The Group Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework The Board is responsible for determining the Group Risk Appetite.
During FY 2013, the Group developed and has since implemented an This defines the nature and extent of the risks the Group is willing Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework ERMF.
This framework to take to achieve its strategic objectives is designed to ensure that the risk assumed in executing our strategy is adequately managed across all levels of the business.
The ERMF defines roles and responsibilities for risk management oversight and activities, including for the Board, the Executive The ERMF will also enable the Board and Executive Management to maintain, Committee and sub-Committees thereof and annually attest to, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control Three Executive Sub-Committees have recently been created covering and risk management as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
financial, operational and new product and market risk to provide the appropriate level of risk oversight across the enlarged organisation LSEG Governance structure: The Group Risk and Audit functions have been separated and each has been signicantly strengthened.
The Groups risk control structure is First Line Second Line Third Line based on the three lines of defence model: LSEG Board The First line is responsible and accountable for identifying, assessing and managing risk Audit and Risk Committee The Second line is responsible for dening the risk management process and policy framework, and for providing challenge to the first line on risk Executive management activities, assessing risks and reporting to the Group Board Committees on risk exposure Financial Operational New Products The Third line of defence provides independent assurance over the Treasury effectiveness of the systems of controls and the ERMF L. O.
& Risk Champions Group Functions Risk Internal Audit Group-wide risk policies have recently been enhanced across the whole business.
These policies define the level of risk we are willing to take in a number of risk appetite statements.
They also set out the principles, minimum standards and risk management activities the Group requires its businesses and functions to follow to manage their business within the agreed risk appetite.
Strategic Risk Objectives The Strategic Risk Objectives of the Group have been dened as follows: To identify and manage significant risks to the delivery of the Groups business strategy To identify and manage significant risks to the day to day operations of the Group To identify and manage significant risks to the reputation of the Group To have a clearly articulated Group risk appetite from which risk limits are derived To have the necessary resources and capabilities to monitor and manage all of the Groups significant risks To have clear roles and responsibilities in respect of risk management across the Group To have an efficient decision making process which takes into consideration a range of business conditions that could impact the risk prole of the Group To optimise cost of the Groups regulatory capital.
Functions Group Committees LOB OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business review Risk management oversight 41 Risk assessment The risk identication and assessment process allows for the monitoring of risk trends and management actions at all levels and also facilitates the decision making process.
The Group regularly performs bottom-up and top-down risk assessments, with risks identied at business unit, divisional and Group levels.
Divisional risk reports are reviewed by the Executive Committee and sub-Committees and the Audit and Risk Committee ARC each quarter.
The Group Risk Report is reviewed by the Board at least every six months.
Each Group-level risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who is responsible for managing or mitigating the risk in order to remain within risk appetite.
Executive Committee members present their divisions risk management processes and latest risk reports to the Audit and Risk Committee once every six months on a rotational basis.
The Board receives presentations on material risks and related mitigants as appropriate.
significant new products, and proposed initiatives in new markets, are now reviewed by the New Product and Market Committee prior to approval by the Executive Committee.
The Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, on pages 57-59, provides details of the work carried out to assist the Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities for risk management and systems of internal control.
Risk categorisation The Group is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may impact its ability to execute its strategy and deliver its expected performance.
Group-wide risks are classied into the following three categories: Corporate risks: Risks related to the strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of the strategy : also risks associated with reputation or brand values Financial risks: The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or value as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial taxation and regulatory information Operational risks: The risk of loss or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
