42 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Overview of Principal Risks: Corporate Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Investment risk Clearing Change management New products and markets Counterparty and market risk Clearing Employees Competition Settlement and custodial risks Security threats Regulatory change and compliance Capital management Technology Acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet Treasury Corporate Risks Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
Also risks associated with reputation or brand values.
Risk description Mitigation Global economy Within the Eurozone, the Group has significant operations in Italy, a country The Group performs regular analyses to monitor the markets and the that has been severely affected by the financial crisis.
As a result, the Group potential impacts on the business.
Activities include tracking Key Risk has a substantial proportion of its assets and liabilities denominated in Indicators, stress testing, currency hedging and frequent liaison with euros and income arising from customers and products which are exposed the Groups financial advisers.
Additionally, some of our technology operations are based in Sri Lanka.
LSEG established a Eurozone working group that met regularly during the year and closely monitored and analysed multiple market scenarios and Low growth and high debt concerns characterised the whole FY 2013, which action plans in order to minimise the potential impacts stemming from a has affected the performance of both developed and emerging economies.
deterioration of the macro economic environment.
The Eurozone crisis is The Eurozone crisis peaked last summer, prompting the intervention of the now a standing item on the agenda of the newly formed Group Financial ECB president in August 2012.
Since then, a series of actions by central Risk Committee.
To the extent possible by the Group, various mitigating authorities, such as the launch of the European Stability Mechanism ESM actions were taken throughout the year.
and the agreement over the banking surveillance system at European level, has stabilised the environment.
There have been several credit downgrades In Sri Lanka, the Group maintains regular contact with key governmental of European countries: European countries remain exposed to adverse parties and has appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure key shocks and a weak banking sector.
technology operations are not dependent on a single geography.
Business Continuity Management BCM and crisis management procedures would be invoked to manage the response to an unexpected event.
For more information, see Market position and outlook, pages 8-11, and Financial risk management, pages 84-87.
Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry.
Continued consolidation Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the effects has fuelled competition including between companies in different of competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
are actively engaged with clients and the Group undertakes constant market monitoring to mitigate risks.
Commercial initiatives are aligned In our Capital Markets operations, there is a risk that competitors will with our major clients and this is complemented with an ongoing focus improve their products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes our on new technology deployment and cost reduction.
There is increasing competition for primary listings from other global exchanges and regional centres.
The financial crisis, made more We maintain a dedicated international marketing team focused on severe by the possibility of default of certain peripheral countries, has key target markets.
The team promotes the benets of listing on our generated market instability which potentially could have a negative markets to international issuers, the global advisory community and impact on market trends, new listings and new products.
In Post Trade Services, the consolidation of clients has led to a concentration of revenues.
Any future loss of liquidity or reduction in volumes on exchanges may impact clearing revenues.
In Information Services, FTSE is currently the third largest index provider and consolidation within the industry is expected over the next three to five years.
Client migration to competitors could lead to a loss of revenue.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong and established market players in some areas where we are establishing a presence.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business review Principal risks and uncertainties 43 Risk description Mitigation Regulatory change The Group and its exchanges, CCPs and other regulated entities operate Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our strategic in industries that are highly, and increasingly, regulated by governmental, planning, including the impact on our growth strategies, both organic and competition and regulatory bodies at European, federal, national and inorganic.
We continually monitor regulatory developments and directly provincial levels.
engage with regulatory and governmental authorities at a national, EU and international level.
We continue to develop our relationships with the key Delivery of the G20 agenda in the EU has resulted in a large number political stakeholders, particularly at EU and UK level.
Potential impacts from of measures which may impact our business directly or indirectly.
The regulatory change are assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities European Commission has also brought forward or is likely to proposals are developed and mitigating strategies and actions are planned.
for a variety of regulations in the future, including a Financial Transactions Tax and arrangements for resolving failed non-bank market infrastructure.
As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater certainty about their likely final form.
The Group continues to consider that, balancing In the UK, the financial services industry has been operating under a new the potential negative and positive outcomes, the likelihood of major adverse regulatory structure since 1 April 2013 where the FSA has been replaced regulatory developments is low.
Indeed, further opportunities exist for the by three separate regulatory bodies.
Also in April, legislation came into Group to deliver solutions to help the market address the changing force in the UK making the administering of, and providing information to, regulatory environment.
specified benchmarks a regulated activity: the only specified benchmark is LIBOR.
However, it is possible that more indices could be subject to similar measures under proposals due to be published by the European Commission in Q2 2013.
Compliance There is a risk that one or more of the Groups regulated entities may fail to The Group continues to maintain governance controls to mitigate compliance comply with the laws and regulatory and competition conditions to which risk.
AIM has a strong governance framework including proactive market it is, or becomes, subject.
In this event, the regulated entity in question may monitoring and support and education of NOMADs.
Compliance policies be subject to censures, fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
are regularly reviewed to ensure that staff uphold our corporate standards.
For more information on regulatory changes see Market Position and Outlook on pages 8-11.
Acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet The completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet The acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet included agreeing represents a significant increase in LSEGs operations including a material a governance framework with certain rights and controls for LSEG.
increase in the Groups balance sheet size due to CCP assets and liabilities.
As part of the alignment process, the enlarged Group is targeting specic The governance of the enlarged Group is aligned and strengthened with cost savings and revenue increases.
the additions of the CEO of LCH.
Clearnet to the LSEG Executive Committee and the Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet to the LSEG Board.
The acquisition of a majority stake will subject the Group to increased regulatory scrutiny and reporting complexity.
A failure to successfully LSEG has set up a programme management framework to deliver the align the businesses of the enlarged Group may lead to: an increased cost transaction objectives, including the alignment of the governance and base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure to capture operations of LCH.
A Steering Committee has been created future product and market opportunities: and risks in respect of capital to provide strategic direction and to oversee progress against objectives.
The new LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework includes LCH.
Clearnet, and was designed to ensure appropriate risk management across the whole of the enlarged Group.
Clearnets business activities, see pages 26-27.
See also the Chairmans statement on pages 12-13, and the Chief Executives statement on pages 14-15, for more information on the Groups acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
44 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Financial Risks The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial taxation and regulatory information.
Risk description Mitigation Investment risk clearing The Groups clearing provider, CC&G, holds a significant amount of cash Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance with and securities deposited by clearing members as margin or default funds.
the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as policies issued under the To ensure optimum ongoing liquidity and immediate access to funds, governance of the CCP themselves.
These policies stipulate a number CC&G deposits the cash received on both a secured basis Government of risk management standards including credit and concentration limits.
Bonds and central bank deposits and on an unsecured basis into the local bank market.
With the latter, there is a risk of loss should a depositIn the course of 2012, CC&G started its alignment process to EMIR and taking bank in which funds are deposited default.
will be fully compliant when the new technical standards take effect on 15 September 2013.
As part of this process, CC&G has increasingly The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR was adopted on invested its resources in secured arrangements and decreased 4 July 2012 and entered into force on 16 August 2012.
On 15 March 2013 the exposure towards unsecured deposits with commercial banks.
the regulatory technical standards entered into force and the transitional In addition, we maintain a close dialogue with the Bank of Italy, period will terminate on 15 September 2013.
The final target, as specified one of the regulators of CC&G and its deposit-taking counterparties.
in EMIR, is the investment of at least 95 per cent of the CCP collateral in secured instruments.
Committees overseeing CCP investment risk meet regularly.
To date, CC&G has not experienced a capital loss as a result of the default of a member.
Counterparty credit and latent market risk clearing CC&G guarantees final settlement of trades and manages counterparty The financial risks associated with clearing operations are mitigated by: credit risk for a range of assets and instruments including cash equities, Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, technical equity derivatives, energy products, agricultural products and corporate and organisational criteria and Government bonds.
As a consequence, the Group is exposed to The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds counterparty credit risk and is also potentially exposed to market to cover exposures to participants.
Each member pays margins, and liquidity risks if a member defaults.
computed at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which CC&G would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the CC&G has an interoperability agreement with LCH.
Clearnet SA for Italian members default.
Clearing members also contribute to default Government bonds traded on wholesale markets.
Under this arrangement, funds managed by CC&G CC&G makes reciprocal deposits of margins with LCH.
Clearnet SA to reect CC&G maintains back-up credit facilities supporting daily liquidity.
the traded positions on Italian participants and is therefore exposed to counterparty credit risk on LCH.
Committees overseeing counterparty credit and latent market risks meet on a regular basis.
Settlement and custodial risks The Group offers post trade services and centralised administration of Asset commitment risk is mitigated through pre-positioning availability financial instruments through its CSD subsidiary, Monte Titoli.
Monte Titoli of security and pre-funding availability of cash.
offers pre-settlement, settlement and custody services.
These activities carry counterparty risk in particular asset commitment risk, operational Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes reducing risk and custody risk including asset servicing risk.
administrative activities and formalised procedures for all services.
Monte Titoli mitigates IT risks by providing for redundancy of systems, Monte Titoli does not provide intraday settlement nancing to daily back-up of data, fully updated remote recovery sites and agreed its members.
Liquidity for Monte Titolis operations is provided by the Bank of Italy.
For more information on these risks see the Post Trade Services section of the Business Review pages 24-25, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management pages 84-87.
Clearnet see section of the Business Review pages 26-27.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business review Principal risks and uncertainties 45 Risk description Mitigation Capital Risk The Group incorporates a number of regulated entities within its structure.
The Group maintains an ongoing review of the capital positions of its Principal risks to managing this capital are: regulated entities and operates within capital limits which are overseen by the Treasury Committee, the newly created Financial Risk Committee, Increases in the regulatory requirements of those companies the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Groups Treasury Policy and or any extension to the Group as a whole recognises the need to observe regulatory requirements in the A scarcity of debt or equity whether specic to the Group management of the Groups resources.
or driven by general financial market conditions.
LSE plc has been subject to new regulations in terms of capital The regulated entities in the Group ensure sufficient capital resources are requirements.
These new limits have been agreed with the regulator maintained to meet regulatory requirements, particularly in Post Trade and are now effective.
Services where capital requirements are increasing.
Failure to do so could lead to loss of regulatory approvals.
The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
The Group makes regular assessments of debt and equity market conditions.
To maintain sufficient financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost, and meet its objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating, the Group is mindful of potential impacts on its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
For more information on financial risk see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management pages 84-87.
46 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Operational Risk The risk of loss or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Risk description Mitigation Technology The Groups businesses and major revenue streams are highly dependent The performance and availability of the Group systems are constantly on secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising where possible and and throughput.
Technology failures impact our clients and can potentially to ensure a prompt response to any potential service interruption.
The lead to a loss of trading volumes and adversely impact the Groups Groups Technology Services management team mitigates this risk by reputation and brand.
ensuring prioritisation of all developments and operations activities, and resource utilisation and allocation is kept under constant review.
The Group now increasingly provides its IT development and operations in-house, with particular reliance on MillenniumIT, following the successful The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault tolerant and alternative migration of the Groups UK markets on to Millennium technology.
While standby computer facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of this gives the Group a greater degree of control in this area, there remains system disruptions.
a risk of resource over-stretch to meet both the requirements of the Group and those of third parties.
The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic IT suppliers to avoid any breakdown in service provision which could adversely affect the The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the Groups businesses.
Where possible, the Group has identied alternative provision of hardware, software, communication and networks for suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to elements of its trading, data and other systems.
deliver on its contractual commitments.
For more information see the Technology Services section of the Business Review, pages 30-31.
Change management The Group has a number of major, complex projects and strategic actions The senior management team is focused on the implementation of the underway concurrently, including implementation of new technology Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their importance to systems, cost management initiatives, and strategic development of the Groups future success.
Each major project, including those in respect the Groups post trade and derivatives businesses.
If not delivered to of M&A and integration, is managed via a dedicated project workstream sufciently high standards and within agreed timescales, these could overseen by a member of the Executive Committee.
Rigorous software have an adverse impact on the operation of core services and revenue design methodologies, testing regimes and test environments are growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of employed to minimise implementation risk.
Product development teams simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill.
are being strengthened to ensure the Group can continue to deliver Synergies and cost benets may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
advanced trading and information technology to meet clients needs.
With regards to M&A and integration activities, the additional projects and workstreams could have an adverse impact on the day to day performance, key strategic initiatives and could damage the Groups reputation.
For more information see Chairmans statement, pages 12-13, and Chief Executives statement, pages 14-15.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business review Principal risks and uncertainties 47 Risk description Mitigation Security threats The Group depends on having secure premises and uninterrupted The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity operation of its IT systems and infrastructure.
Potential security and crisis management policies, procedures and guidelines in place.
threats require continuous monitoring and assessment.
Security threats are taken very seriously and robust physical security arrangements are in place, including close liaison with Government Terrorist and cyber attacks and similar activities directed against our agencies and police forces as required.
ofces, operations, computer systems or networks could disrupt our markets, harm staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our Additionally, extensive IT security measures are in place to mitigate business operations.
Civil or political unrest could impact on security risk.
The Groups internet connections are pro-actively monitored companies within the Group.
at all times and, with the support of a third party, malicious trafc is blocked.
There are also contingency procedures in place that can Long term unavailability of key premises or trading and information be invoked in the event of a threat against the Groups infrastructure.
outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence Furthermore, rigid security policies are enforced.
The IT security and reputational damage.
Security risks have escalated in recent years team monitors intelligence and the Group is a member of the Centre due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
for the Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI.
Employees The calibre, quality and retention of employees is critical to the success The Group operates a performance management and appraisal system, of the Group.
The loss of key members of staff could have an adverse and Executive development opportunities are provided with the impact on the Groups operations and ability to deliver its strategy.
Nominations Committee responsible for considering succession plans for key senior positions.
The Groups ability to attract and retain high quality individuals depends on the condition of recruitment markets and corresponding compensation A performance related annual bonus and pay review process is in place packages of financial services, technology rms and regulators with which for all employees.
Regular benchmarking of reward and incentive systems the Group competes for the same key staff.
is performed to ensure they are competitive.
The Group also offers Long Term Incentive Plans for high performers and critical staff and turnover is monitored and reported to senior executives quarterly.
A centralised training budget allows a coordinated approach to development across the Group.
There are also plans to enhance talent management over the next 12 to 18 months, specically enhancing Group succession planning and launching a new HR system.
For more information see Our wider responsibility, pages 36-37 and Remuneration Report, pages 54-63.
