F c i i n g a e t n a c r i t a S l 20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Risk management Last year we highlighted business transformation risks as one of the Mans business model is Groups principal risks, following the announcement of two rounds of strengthenedby an integrated significant cost reduction plans.
These plans are largely complete and our business has managed to successfully absorb these cost reductions and approach to risk management.
emerge as a more operationally efficient organisation.
In the Principal risks and mitigants section on page 22 we have noted anumber of recent regulatory developments.
This dynamic regulatory environment together with the Groups global presence and wide range of products means compliance is increasingly demanding.
The Group has remained focused on ensuring that our operational and risk management frameworks keep pace with the evolving regulatory landscape in the Mans risk management framework jurisdictions in which we do business.
The responsibility for risk management rests with Mans Board, however, accountability is embedded throughout all layers of the business.
The risk We have taken significant steps to improve the efficiency of the Groups management framework aims to ensure that the business operates within capital and liquidity structure.
Following the Groups move in regulatory the Boards acceptable risk tolerances, as defined by the risk appetite status from Full Scope to Limited Licence in April 2013, we implemented statements.
Our governance structure provides a solid foundation for a plan at that time to use our strong capital and cash position to buy all ongoing oversight in a dynamic environment.
outstanding debt and hybrid securities.
Developments in 2013 We have continued to reduce our legacy positions in funds whilst the Our risk profile has not changed significantly during the year: investment further fide-gearing of structured products has resulted in reduced loans to underperformance continues to be the biggest risk facing the Group.
This together with the improved capital and liquidity structure has Adiverse product range gives Group shareholders protection against allowed the Group greater flexibility to selectively seed new funds.
concentrated underperformance from any one sector.
The Group has continued to add to our wide range of investment styles and products.
The risk to the Groups balance sheet from counterparty defaults remains We have recruited several proven investment professionals to enhance low.
We continue to keep a close eye on counterparty and average credit our offering and attract funds.
spreads which have been tight throughout 2013.
Risk Management Categories The risk of reduced funds under The risk that Man or its management due to: business units will: poor fund performance make inappropriate strategic choices fund underperformance relative to a be unable to successfully implement benchmark or peer group selected strategies be subject to changes which invalidate strategies and undermine the existing business model Note: This is a risk Man must adopt as part of its businessmodel.
The risk of a loss The risk resulting from: to Man owing to: inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems adverse market movements external events counterparty failure to deliver investor or shareholder assets when due insufficient liquidity resources available for Man to meet its obligations Note: This includes legal and regulatory risks.
t O n p e e m r t a s t e i v o n n I a l Strategic report 21 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Mans risk appetite statements Mans governance The risk appetite statements are set by the Board and cover all significant The below committees have been given a mandate by the Board and risk categories.
They apply to both the investment management functions the CEO to oversee the risk management framework.
These and Man Group itself.
The statements express the Boards appetite for committees provide assurance to the Board that risk has been risk, promote a risk aware culture and set out objectives and boundaries managed according to the risk appetite statements: for Mans business.
PLC Board The primary goal of risk management is to support the achievement of company objectives by encouraging an appropriate balance between risk-seeking and risk-averse activities, in a controlled and regulatory Audit and Risk Committee compliant context.
CEO The Audit and Risk Committee The governance framework and control environment within the Group ARCom is a committee of the have been designed to manage risks in accordance with these Board which has oversight of the statements.
The Board and ARCom receive regular reporting on the Assurance functions see page 34 Groups risk profile and adherence with risk appetite.
In the event that for further detail.
breaches to risk appetite occur, these will be resolved in line with the Executive Committee firms procedures and processes.
The statements are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
The Executive Committee is accountable for all risks assumed A summary of the risk appetite statements is available at www.
in the business and is responsible for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline.
Risk Assurance Committee Finance Committee The Risk Assurance Committee The Finance Committee approves RAC oversees the operational, actual and contingent use of the regulatory and reputational risks Group balance sheet and ensures faced by the Group and the internal the adequacy of economic and control environment.
The RAC regulatory capital and liquidity ischaired by the Chief Risk buffers.
The Finance Committee is Officer, CRO.
Three lines of defence The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for risk The overall risk management framework at Man is based on the three management in each business unit.
Embedding accountability at the lines of defence, and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee as business level is the first line of defence.
delegated by the Board: The business units are monitored by a number of risk control functions i. e. Risk, Compliance, which form the second line of defence.
1st line 2nd line 3rd line The independent review and oversight provided by Internal Audit is of defence of defence ofdefence thethird line of defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and Business Compliance governance processes.
Management Although Man and the investors in its products are susceptible to losses, we believe our risk management framework supports long-term value In Business through the process of risk-aware decision making.
Risk Risk Management Operational Management Internal Audit External Audit 22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Principal risks and mitigants Risk Mitigant 1.
Investment underperformance risks Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, relative to a benchmark or This is the key risk Man has to accept if it is to undertake its business.
relative to peer groups would reduce funds under management FUM Mans investment businesses each have clearly defined investment and may result in lower subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This may processes designed to target and deliver on the investment mandate also result in dissatisfied clients, negative press and reputational damage.
Lower FUM results in lower management fee revenue and underperformance Fund and manager performance is closely monitored, and we focus on results in lower performance fees, if any.
hiring and retaining highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to perform within the parameters of their mandate.
The breakdown of Mans FUM and revenue margins by product line is shown on page 16.
Mans diversified range of products and strategies across the alternatives marketplace mitigates the risk to the business from underperformance of any particular strategy.
Regulatory risks Man offers a wide range of investment products from a global network of Man supports proportionate and thoughtful global regulation and initiatives offices in 19 jurisdictions.
This results in Man being subject to a matrix of that develop the regulatory environment.
regulations both at a supra national and individual jurisdiction level, coupled with a rapidly changing regulatory environment.
Man continuously assesses whether the products it markets comply with new regulations as they emerge and change.
In this respect, the company Man is regulated by 20 regulators and lead regulated by the UK Financial conducts an independent review process for all products.
Man continues to liaise directly with competent authorities e. g. IOSCO, Notable recent regulatory developments include the implementation of the ESMA, NFA, HMT, FCA, DFSA and CSRC through its Compliance EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the implementation department which consists of approximately 28 FTE or equivalents of CRD IV, preparations for EMIR and Dodd Frank Chapter VII and the specialists functionally split between Corporate, Investment Management, emergence of detail on UCITS V, MiFID MiFIR, Market Abuse Directive II Sales and Marketing and Financial Crime.
Compliance is located across andFinancial Transaction Tax.
Operational risks Operational risk is defined by Man as the risk resulting from inadequate or Mans Operational Risk Policy provides an overview of the responsibilities failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
that all staff have to identify, assess, monitor and manage operational risk within the Group.
Man continues to outsource a number of functions that were previously performed internally.
The risks are that the outsourced service providers The aim is to ensure that operational risks are identified, understood, do not perform as required, resulting in knock-on implications for our assessed and mitigated in such a way that their financial impact is business as a whole.
managed in accordance with a defined risk appetite.
Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA is at the core of our assessment of operational risks.
Key risk indicators and operational risk events are also analysed to ensure that our assessment of operational risks in RCSA is up-to-date and correctly reflects the Groups operational risk profile.
Mans operations team have extensive experience of running an outsourcing process, and have implemented a robust methodology including extensive KPI monitoring to ensure that service providers are able to deliver as required this is in turn monitored by Risk Assurance Committee RAC and ARCom.
Strategic report 23 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Risk Mitigant 4. Credit counterparty risks The risk that a counterparty with which the funds or Man have financial Man diversifies its deposits across a number of the strongest financial transactions fails to deliver back investor or shareholder assets.
counterparties, each of which are approved by the Finance Committee and have maximum exposure limits set, in line with Mans risk appetite.
Shareholders and investors in Man funds and products are exposed to credit risk of prime brokers, clearing houses, futures clearers, depository Man monitors credit spreads and ratings of our main trading banks and guarantee providers, if any.
counterparties and banks as forward indicators of their credit quality.
During 2013 the average CDS spreads for banks have remained tight as Man also provides loans to guaranteed products, and so is subject to central banks have maintained strong liquidity provision policies.
counterparty risk to certain investor funds.
Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is actively adjusted such that the risk of default related to balance sheet loans to funds is small.
Discretionary trading risk The risk that fund managers place inappropriate trades outside of Front office systems provide automated checks and controls at portfolio mandate and regulatory boundaries.
Man may need to compensate for and trade level.
Each investment management business has dedicated any losses arising for such trades, as well as face the possibility of fines, risk management personnel who monitor portfolio profiles and provide lawsuits and reputational damage.
Such risks include insider dealing, valuation, mis-allocation between In addition all fund managers are required to undertake regular mandatory funds and market abuse.
training to ensure they are aware of due processes and their responsibilities related to the placing of trades.
Key staff retention The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform Man has been able to attract and retain an array of talented individuals their role.
Business and investment processes are designed witha view to continue this trend and minimise the impact of losing any particular key individuals.
In addition, there is an established succession planning process at senior levels of the business.
Legal risks The global nature of Mans business, with corporate and fund entities Man operates a robust legal framework which underpins all aspects of its collectively located in 19 jurisdictions, makes it subject to a wide range business and is resourced by experienced legal teams.
These teams are physically located in Mans key jurisdictions helping Failure to comply with these laws may put Man at risk of fines, lawsuits or them to understand the context and impact of any legal requirements.
Reputational risks The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines our reputation Our reputation is dependent on both our operational performance and as a leading alternative investment manager.
Reputational damage could fund performance.
Integrity is fundamental to ensuring Man is able to result in significant redemptions from our funds, and could lead to issues attract investment in funds.
Our strong governance and control structure with external financing, credit ratings and relations with our outsourcing outlined above helps mitigate operational concerns, and our attention to providers.
people and robust investment processes aim to ensure we comply with very high standards of investment management practice.
The Board regularly reviews evidence of whether the right tone from the top is beingmaintained.
24 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 People and corporate responsibility Human resources strategy To achieve superior performance for Our human resources objectives are aligned with the strategic priorities ourclients and shareholders we need to for Man.
We achieve this by hiring the most able people and developing and motivating them in an environment which stimulates innovation and have the right people in the right roles, profitable growth.
fully motivated and competitively paid.
Talent We are very conscious of the need to Despite the challenging market conditions, we believe it is important todevelop and retain talented individuals for the future of the business.
provide appropriate development for our Toincrease our talent pipeline we have launched a new investment management graduate programme and a structured summer internship talented and increasingly international programme, both of which start in 2014.
Five high calibre graduates have workforce.
Encouraging effective been hired and will participate in a two year programme, rotating through placements in AHL, FRM, GLG and Sales which will equip them with a collaboration and teamwork across broad knowledge of our products and overall business.
Four interns will theCompany, within the bounds of spend 10 weeks with us in the summer, working on key projects with a view to successful interns being offered a place on the following years regulation and good governance, is graduate programme.
In 2013, we hired apprentices for the first time in the UK through participation in the Ladder for London initiative a scheme launched bythe Evening Standard to help tackle youth unemployment in London through apprenticeships.
Our apprentices were offered a 12-month full-time position, and have attended college for one day per week during Breakdown of staff by gender % their first six months.
To ensure the apprentices get maximum benefit from their work placement, they are supported by supervisors, assigned Male Female buddies and HR.
They also have exposure to management through 100 31 14 14 discussion sessions at which they provide progress updates to members of the senior leadership team.
86 86 75 We focus on retention through our annual performance evaluation 69 andsuccession planning processes.
This annual review is a valuable opportunity for managers to give individuals feedback on their 50 performance and how their careers can progress with the Company, particularly during difficult times.
Our ongoing succession planning process is designed to mitigate continuity risks by identifying key 25 individuals for retention and further development.
Efficiencies Total workforce Senior managers Board of A significant part of the $270 million cost saving programme has Directors comefrom a reduction in headcount phased over 2012, 2013 and 2014.
The result of these initiatives will mean that Group headcount including contractors and consultants has been reduced from 1,876 in June 2011 People by function % to 1,115 at 31 December 2013 and by the time all the cost savings are June 2011: 1,876 December 2013: 1,115 fullyimplemented the ratio of support function employees to front office 50 will be approximately 1 to 1, which we believe to be in line with industry best practice.
40 39 Man treats those impacted by redundancy fairly and respectfully whilstprotecting the Company from potential litigation.
We provide 33 30 outplacement assistance to individuals who are made redundant 30 including career advice, interview preparation and guidance on developing their networks to help them transition to a new role.
21 20 21 19 19 18 Remuneration 10 Our remuneration policies and practices are designed to enable us toremain competitive in the increasingly global markets in which we operate.
More information on how we set compensation packages is Investment Sales and Product Central given in the Directors remuneration report on page 40.
Set out opposite management marketing & client management operations & and support is the key compensation information for the year ended 31 December technology 2013 and the prior year.
The compensation ratio for 2013 defined as total compensation as a percentage of net revenues was in line with 2012.
Strategic report 25 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Key compensation information Employee engagement and support Employees receive regular updates and presentations on Company Year ended Year ended results and major decisions which affect them through face to face 31 December 31 December Year over c 2013 2012 Year meetings or, if necessary, via video link.
The Man intranet is used to $m $m change provide supplementary updates from senior management on all aspects 1 Net revenue 1,057 1,129 -6% of our business and is a critical part of the dissemination of knowledge 2 Salaries and related personnel and information.
costs fixed costs 188 236 -20% 3 Cash performance bonus costs 178 121 47% Our Global Mobility Programme enables us to meet specific business 4 Amortisation of share and fund needs within given markets or business areas.
Assigning people overseas awards 49 73 -33% assists us in attracting, retaining and developing our people in order to 5 Variable compensation 3 4 227 194 17% meet our business goals and strengthen our geographic footprint.
This 6 Internal commissions 30 45 -33% creates a diverse talent pool with varied perspectives and enhanced a, b 7 Total compensation costs sharing of our knowledge base.
2 5 6 445 475 -6% 8 Ratio of compensation cost Corporate responsibility Net revenue 7 1 42% 42% Our corporate responsibility strategy is to pursue and evidence where 9 Adjusted Diluted Earnings per possible the high standards of behaviour, both corporate and individual, share EPS cents per share 14.1 11.6 22% which underpin our ethos and maintain the trust and loyalty of our key stakeholders.
We focus on five key areas of corporate responsibility: Notes: a Profit allocation to partners is included in compensation as required by 1.
World-class governance and risk management accountingstandards.
Man strives to deliver the highest standards of governance and risk b Compensation excludes FRM costs prior to acquisition in July 2012 including management.
We have long recognised the importance of corporate $7million accrual atacquisition for year end bonus.
governance practices that help ensure effective oversight and strong accountability.
With our scale, we are well-positioned to implement and Equality and diversity manage these practices effectively across our platform, as we strive to Mans culture is based on mutual respect for others and discrimination by deliver industry leading governance and risk management.
any individual on the grounds of age, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or educational background is not acceptable.
Responsibilities to our market place consideration is given by Man to applications for employment made by Man is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and actively disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Mans Global supports collaboration of the alternative asset management industry in Inclusion Policy outlines our commitment to ensuring a diverse workforce developing and committing to standards of responsible investment.
and our opposition to discrimination of any form, including on the basis of disability.
The company ensures that disabled persons are fairly treated in The Hedge Fund Standards were drawn up in 2007 to address key issues respect of training and career development.
For those who become disabled relating to the hedge fund industry and best practice, covering the areas of during their employment, reasonable adjustments are made and ongoing disclosure, valuation, risk management, fund governance and shareholder support is provided as required to enable the individual to continue working.
Man is a founding signatory of the Hedge Fund Standards Board HFSB which was fully established in 2008 as a guardian to the Standards Man remains committed to promoting gender diversity at senior with the goal of creating a framework for promoting integrity, transparency management and Executive Committee level, as well as across the and good governance in the industry.
Our recruitment policy has the objective of securing meaningful female representation on long lists of candidates internal and 3.
Managing our people external for senior roles and wherever possible we engage executive Man aims to create an environment which enables our staff to reach search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on theirfull potential.
We encourage our teams to work together to help each gender diversity and best practice.
Our Executive Committee was other develop and succeed professionally and personally by providing a refreshed at the beginning of this year and we have two women in key workplace which is healthy, safe, and offers guarantees of fairness and senior roles who sit on that committee.
The improved diversity of the equal opportunities.
As a responsible business, we constantly review refreshed Executive Committee as listed below is welcome.
ourprocedures which support the development and retention of talent including performance management programmes, flexible working policies, Man Group Executive Committee health and well-being initiatives, and our comprehensive benefits scheme.
Manny Roman CEO, Man Group 4.
Contributing to our communities Jonathan Eliot Chief Risk Officer Man Group is actively involved in charitable initiatives and volunteering Luke Ellis President, Man Group opportunities local to the firms offices through its ManKind programme.
Furthermore, we have a worldwide commitment to promoting literacy in Robyn Grew Global Head, Compliance & Regulatory children, underscored through our sponsorship of the Man Booker Prize.
Keith Haydon CIO, FRM We are very conscious of the impact of our organisation on our community Rene Herren Deputy Head of Sales and have taken steps to ensure we are contributing positively to those around us.
Teun Johnston Co-CEO, GLG Mark Jones Co-CEO, GLG 5.
Protecting the environment Pierre Lagrange Chairman, Man Asia & Senior Managing Director, GLG Whilst our environmental impact is relatively limited, we strive to deliver clear and transparent reporting that makes sense of the measurable elements Michelle McCloskey Senior Managing Director, FRM within our control and respond to external risks and expectations.
We look Tim Rainsford Global Head, Sales & Marketing to take all practicable and economic measures to conserve and reduce Sandy Rattray CEO, AHL & MSS energy consumption at our offices around the world.
We monitor our impacts using Credit 360, a system that measures relevant data and Jasveer Singh General Counsel generates reports which provide practical guidance in identifying our Jonathan Sorrell Chief Financial Officer impacts and managing their reduction.
Simon White Global Head, Technology & Operations Tim Wong Chairman, AHL & MSS
