52 Principal risks Identifying and assessing key risks Spotlight on As detailed elsewhere, we have made significant changes to our business in 2013, many of which relate to structural shifts in the online gaming industry principal risks brought about by the transition from a dotcom trading environment to more fragmented, nationally regulated and taxed markets and rapid advances intechnology that are driving consumer habits from e-commerce to m-commerce.
Key risk and Many of the risks associated with online gaming are similar to those faced change versus 2012 Rationale for change by other leisure and entertainment industries including competition, Technology changes to consumer tastes, maintaining healthy financial ratios in compliance withbanking covenants and loss of key personnel.
There are Reduced Transition to single operating also certain risks that are more specic to bwin.
party and to the online platform almost complete gaming industrythat deserve particular mention, such as increased with customers in France and Italy to be migrated in 2014. taxation whencountries introduce regulated regimes, or make changes toexisting licensing requirements.
Regulation and compliance Regardless of whether the changes are within or outside our control, Increased Two more regulatory regimes added Belgium and New our overall approach to managing risk has not changed.
Whilst additional minimising, monitoring and assessing the likelihood of adverse events is complexity is mitigated by never-ending and needs to involve employees at all levels by continually experience gained from asking what if?.
operating in regulated markets, a number of As in previous years, we asked this question many times during 2013.
European countries and However, what if?
is just the starting point, because to manage risk states in the US are actively considering introducing properlyit has to become a regular topic of discussion within management online gaming regulations.
meetings outside of regular Group-wide risk assessments.
Taxation Identifying a risk is just a first step towards understanding the all-important Unchanged Tax risk remains high.
inter-dependencies and how the knock-on effects of a potentially adverse The number of tax-paying change might impact other parts of the business.
jurisdictions is set to increase asper the reasons We held 79 individual meetings and 12 workshops in 2013 to: assess given inthe Spotlight on whether any risk had increased, decreased, remained unchanged or had regulation on pages 40 and become obsolete: identify new risks, especially from recent key business 41 in the sectionabove.
events: andto ascertain the chances of a risk happening and its associated Poker level ofimpact.
The number of high-level risks identied stayed static as a percentage of the overall risks at 6.0% 2012: 6.1%, although there was Unchanged Market fragmentation resulting from regulated, asmall increase in the number of risks identied.
ring-fenced regimes in several countries has We held 12 risk workshops during 2013, capturing information from all impacted the games appeal.
keybusiness areas as well as from the Executive Directors of the Board.
PokerStars remains the dominant competitor.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by Martin Weigold, Chief Financial officer, met five times in 2013.
The Committee aims to ensure that all strategicrisks are identied and to reach a consensus on the significant risksidentied by the 12 workshops.
This process helps to ingrain theimportance of risk management throughout all business functions Technology, Marketing, each of the product verticals, Human Resources, Operations, Finance, Regulatory Affairs, Legal and Company Secretarial.
These risks were then submitted to the Audit Committee for review, whichthen raised queries and concerns with management and requested corresponding action to be taken against key risks.
The top seven risks identied are described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Sectionon pages 77 and 78.
The French and Italian migrations represent the last major merger integration projects.
As a result the separate integration category shown in the 2012 Annual report is no longer classed as a standalone key risk and has been incorporated into the technology category.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 53 Our main risk groups are: Regulation and compliance t Technology Regulation is another complex area.
Managing this key risk is critical for us, particularly because of the increasing number of countries and now t Regulation and compliance US states that are introducing regulatory regimes, each of which have different compliance requirements.
t Taxation Our compliance obligations range from administration of our gaming t Poker licences in Gibraltar, Alderney, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Spain and Schleswig-Holstein in Germany, to assessing what impact countryTechnology specic and pan-regional rules and regulations might have on our Technology is at the core of our business, employing a third of our staff business and the wider industry.
While political and cultural attitudes who are continuously developing our capabilities to maintain our towards online gaming are continuing to evolve, as evidenced by the competitive edge and keep on top of the ongoing changes in tastes and opening of online gaming markets in three US states in 2013 Nevada, demands by consumers who expect to access fun and entertainment Delaware and New Jersey there is always a risk that certain territories whenever and wherever they want.
may seek to prohibit or restrict one or more of the products that we offer or online gaming entirely.
Our reputation for data protection and for responsible, safe and secure products and services is upheld to a high degree by our We have a dedicated regulatory and compliance team that reports technology capabilities.
directlyto the CEO and is closely supported by our legal and regional management teams.
We submit ourselves to a series of external audits As with all technology, making sure that our services are available as required under our gaming licences and also perform our own 24 7 and remain stable at all times is a key driver of long-term success.
compliance assessments to ensure that policies and procedures are System failures and or errors in newly released software can destabilise being followed andworking effectively.
services and result in them not being available for customers, or failing to provide a quality user experience.
One of the main reasons why we Taxation have adopted the Agile working methodology is to increase both the Taxation is the third category of risk which we believe is material.
quality and the number of software releases we make each year, helping Group companies operate only where they are incorporated, domiciled us to continue to improve platform stability and enhance our product or registered.
Revenues earned from customers located in a particular offer so thatwe can deliver the best possible online experience for jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
taxes arelevied, either on the basis of existing law or the current Most of our gaming technology is proprietary, we believe that practice of any tax authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, this means wearebetter placed to manage risks associated with thenthis may havea material adverse effect on the amount of tax technological and regulatory change than those competitors that rely payable by the Group.
We manage these risks by considering tax as heavily on third-party softwareand systems.
partof our overall business planning.
We plan to migrate customers in France and Italy to our new platform Poker later this year and thiswillhelp to reduce our risk in this general The international online poker market has struggled in recent years as area.
However, we do sharetheindustrys general risks that arise several countries have regulated and ring-fenced their online gaming from sourcing broadband and communications, data management markets, reducing player liquidity for customers both within and and storage services as well as a raft ofother services from external outside such regulatory regimes.
This has reduced the overall appeal of suppliers.
Our aim is to offset these risks by not becoming overly reliant poker in several markets where the Group has historically had a strong on any single supplier as well as having in place disaster recovery presence.
Atthe same time, PokerStars remains a dominant competitor centres and business continuity plans.
With a strong cross-sell from poker to casino and other games, market declines and competitive pressures have also impacted revenues inother areas of the Groups business.
To counter this trend, the Group has launched an all new version of its poker product with many new features such as missions and achievements that are aimed at broadening its appeal to a larger customer base.
In addition, the opening of the online poker market in New Jersey provides a further source of growth as the US remains one of the largest poker markets inthe world.
