FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Investment Policy To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
The Company generally seeks to focus on loans of issuers that the Investment Manager believes have the ability to generate cash flow through a full business cycle, maintain adequate liquidity, possess an enterprise value in excess of senior debt and have access to both debt and equity capital.
The Company also makes investments in senior bonds on an opportunistic basis if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued, up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the Net Asset Value at the time of investment, provided that no more than 10% of Net Asset Value may be invested in unsecured senior bonds at the time of investment.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Credit Risk The key risk for the Company remains Credit Risk ie that the Investment Manager buys a loan or bond of a particular Issuer and it does not perform as expected and either defaults on a payment or experiences a significant drop in the secondary market value.
To mitigate this risk, the Investment Manager carries out extensive, independent due diligence on each borrower, and has a particular focus on stable, performing credits that evidence strong track records through previous economic cycles.
Additionally, the size of an Issuer is also considered and the Investment Manager continues to favour the larger Issuers in the market, defined by having debt issuance greater than $500m.
These Issuers tend to have broader syndicates, which can aid liquidity in the secondary market.
As well as screening out the smaller Issuers the Investment Manager also excludes highly cyclical industries and companies with limited earning visibility from its Investment Process.
Once a particular investment has been made, the Investment Manager is very focused on the monitoring of it.
A range of relevant data is reviewed on an ongoing basis for each investment, including, but not limited to, key financial drivers, commodity prices, stock prices, regulatory developments, financial results, press releases and management commentary to identify any indicators of credit deterioration.
To manage this risk further, the Board ensures a diversification of investments with the Investment Manager operating in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the portfolio.
Market Price Risk The market value of senior secured loans may vary because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial condition of the underlying borrowers, the industry in which a borrower operates, general economic or political conditions, the condition of the debt trading markets and certain other financial markets, developments or trends in any particular industry and changes in prevailing interest rates.
