RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Old Mutual has a well established and embedded risk and governance framework.
The risk and governance framework is set out in the Group Operating Model and is supported by economic capital tools and transparent processes for managing, monitoring and controlling risks.
We will continue to refine structures and processes as necessary, but the overall governance structures are stable.
These structures and processes, together with our strong balance sheet, provide a solid base to support our business as we continue to pursue our growth strategy over the next few years.
S Su ue K e Ke ea an n Investment in risk management and governance over the past few G Gr ro ou up C p Ch hi ie ef R f Ri is sk O k Of ff fi ic ce er r years has positioned the Group well to comply with the forthcoming regulatory requirements under Solvency II and the equivalent developments in South Africa, and Basel 3.
We are confident that we are sufficiently capitalised on an economic capital basis to comply with the new requirements as currently proposed, although these are not yet finalised.
With the delays in the starting date for Solvency II and the closer alignment in expected timing of the new South African regime, combined with changes to the Groups risk profile as we have discontinued or are running-off certain higher capital risk businesses, we decided not to pursue the Group internal model regulatory pre-approval process at this stage.
We continue to use our internal capital model for risk management purposes and maintain a good dialogue with both the UK and South African regulators in readiness for the other aspects of the new regimes.
Risk frameworks, governance and the Groups internal capital model are overseen centrally but implemented by our businesses locally so that local requirements can be addressed appropriately.
This is reinforced through senior Group executive representation on business unit regulatory boards, coupled with formal dual reporting for all key control functions.
The Group structure has been simplified: with the exception of the Bermuda legacy business, all businesses are now grouped under five substantial business units, each of which cascade risk and governance requirements to their underlying operating segments in a manner which is consistent with the Groups framework but adapted for local conditions.
Our risk strategy is inherent in our business strategy: to pursue risks within our core businesses of investment, savings, insurance and banking that we have the skills to manage and monitor and can adequately price.
Within this overarching philosophy we seek to optimise capital efficiency, avoiding excessive risk concentrations and diversifying risk where possible.
In this context we view risk concentration and diversification on a regional basis, looking separately at emerging markets Africa, Latin America and Asia, the UK and Europe and the US.
Each of the regions in which we operate and individual companies is sufficiently capitalised in its own right.
The distribution and allocation of capital to our businesses in each region largely reflects the different risk profiles within those regions and the prevailing regulatory requirements.
Even when applying significant economic stresses to our current capital, the Group remains adequately capitalised.
We have also identified management actions that could be Old Mutual plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance taken to remedy the Groups capital or liquidity position in an extreme Business risk and market risk remains as our two most significant risks.
shock event where capital or liquidity levels may significantly breach While they have remained relatively stable over the year, they are our risk appetite limits for a sustained period.
influenced by the economies in the key regions where we operate and the impact on the consumer in those countries, notably in South Africa We assess the Groups risk profile through several different lenses, where we have our largest retail base.
We have maintained strong described later in this section.
The medium-term risk strategy focus on the customer during the year, with activity coordinated at determined in 2010 was primarily influenced by the capital view of risk.
Group level and implemented through local customer champions, and Since then, our risk profile expressed in terms of capital has seen a have adapted our operational stance and product features to reflect reduction in market and credit spread risk, driven largely by the sale of the changing customer needs.
This has also put us in a good position to US Life and the run-off of our business in Bermuda.
Following disposals respond to increased conduct of business regulation in the UK and in the US and Nordic regions there has been an increase in the relative South Africa.
proportion of Group level foreign exchange risk, as a significant proportion of the business is now capitalised and run from South Liability risk diversifies well against our other risks and we continue Africa.
As our capital is largely located in the regions where our risks to seek to increase the proportion of this risk where appropriate.
lie, the impact on the balance sheet is of the nature of an unrealised Our liability risk exposure, however, has not increased proportionately accounting translation risk.
This impact is mostly relevant to the during the year and remains small outside the South African businesses.
translation of rand earnings to sterling.
The level of the rand is Our business plans include a number of actions to increase this susceptible to changes in the level of foreign investment in South Africa exposure, but only where it meets our risk and return requirements.
and other factors affecting demand for the rand.
This risk remains high Old Mutual Bermuda now represents less than 2% of our economic given slowed economic growth globally, the current and capital capital requirement, and is no longer one of our top five Group risks.
account deficits South Africa is running, and uncertainty around how During 2013 we began to measure risk culture, considering governance investors will continue to react as the US Federal Reserve further tapers and tone from the top, understanding of risk, attitude to risk, control its monetary stimulus programme.
A substantial capital outflow could functions, quality of management information and remuneration potentially trigger a decline in the rand, reducing our earnings as structures.
We see this as an important addition to our suite of risk reported in sterling.
We have modelled scenarios involving a severe exposure measures and processes given the importance of a rand drop and are comfortable that the Group has sufficient capital proactive risk and control culture.
and liquidity headroom to withstand such events, if they were to occur.
The following pages give more details of our current risk profile please During 2013 we moved into a period of growth, with a strong balance refer to our Principal Risks and Uncertainties section in this Annual sheet position driven by our large and well-capitalised in-force Report for our topical risks.
Due to the complexity of the modelling insurance and banking businesses.
As a result, earnings volatility and process involved, the economic risk exposure data in this report are other business metrics now play an increasing role in the determination as at 30 June 2013. of our risk and business strategy.
The Groups risk profile has remained stable during 2013, with most risks increasing in line with business growth.
We reviewed the medium-term risk strategy during the year, Sue Kean, and while our underlying philosophy has remained unchanged, we Group Chief Risk Officer have slightly increased our risk appetite for credit risk within emerging markets.
Credit risk has a greater proportional impact on earnings at risk than it does on capital at risk.
We recognise that there could be a short-term increase in operational risk in the next few years whilst we execute the various strategic change initiatives.
This increase has been accepted to reduce our longer term strategic risk, but continues to be closely monitored and managed.
During 2013 we acquired stakes in businesses in Nigeria and Ghana and we are in the process of acquiring a distribution business in the UK, a stake in a micro-lending business in Kenya, and a stake in a bank in Mozambique.
These businesses are small compared with our large in-force insurance and banking businesses and do not yet have a significant impact on our risk profile with reference to capital.
For monitoring purposes, other metrics such as earnings and operational risk are more prominent at this stage.
83 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT continued insurance, banking or asset management.
The regional view seeks Our risk strategy to reflect differential underlying economic and political drivers as Our risk strategy guides the way we take on risk in the course of running well as the allocation of capital between different regulatory our business and unlocking value for all stakeholders.
Region in this context refers to emerging markets: component of our business strategy, and is influenced not only by the UK including Europe and International cross-border : and US.
available economic capital and earnings at risk, but also by reference Old Mutual Bermuda as a legacy business is treated separately.
to factors such as the Groups customer focus and leveraging core skills These regions align to the Group Operating Model, and the and competencies across the Group.
different elements of the growth strategy priorities.
Our overall strategic aim is to build and grow a long-term sustainable 5.
We avoid risks where we expose ourselves to very volatile or business.
Central to this is a good reputation.
We are committed to potentially extreme adverse outcomes eg.
operating responsibly, examining the impacts and risks of our decisions on all our stakeholders as an integral part of our decision-making 6.
Operational risk should be minimised and mitigated taking into process for more information on how we operate responsibly please account the cost versus the benefit of doing so.
see our Responsible Business Report.
Doing the right thing by all our stakeholders is at the heart of what we do and is also the foundation Our risk appetite framework supports delivery of our risk strategy.
It includes qualitative risk appetite principles and statements to guide our business units and help to clarify our risk strategy in line with the Our risk strategy principles Groups risk appetite.
These principles and statements are supported Our risk strategy is supported by principles that must be considered in by quantitative risk limits for our risk appetite metrics, as set out in the deciding whether or not to pursue an opportunity.
table overleaf, which are set as an iterative part of our business planning process so as to ensure that local risk limits are consistent with 1.
We consider the impact of pursuing an opportunity on all local business plans.
As part of this process we set risk limits by risk type our stakeholders.
at both Group and business unit level.
Twice a year there is a formal 2.
We only take on risk that we can price appropriately so that review of risk exposures against the limits and early warning thresholds.
expected reward exceeds minimum return for shareholders and In addition to this, business units use operational limits to monitor have the skills to monitor and manage.
material risks at a more granular level on a more regular basis.
We prefer risks that are capital efficient to underwrite.
The impact on For 2013 all Group risk metrics were comfortably within risk appetite diversification or concentration with the existing risk profile should be limits.
During 2012 we introduced early warning indicators across understood and considered.
all our businesses that trigger investigative action to identify and understand sources of additional risk and management actions 4.
We consider risk by region, taking into account the available capital needed to avoid breaching the risk appetite limits.
in the region, the market maturity, type of business and business model, including the nature of the regulatory regime for example, Our risk universe is set out below and in the table overleaf.
Our risk universe Risk exposure largely not Risk exposure captured via quantifiable, but risks actively quantitative risk metrics managed.
The potential ECaR, EaR and OpRisk Strategic Market financial impact from Risk Risk compliance failures and regulatory breaches Compliance Business captured in the OpRisk & Regulatory Risk OLD MUTUAL measure and operational Risk RISK risk economic capital CATEGORISATION MODEL Liquidity Liabitlity Risk Risk Operational Credit & Risk Counterparty Risk exposure captured via Risk quantitative risk metrics CFaR Old Mutual plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Our risk universe risk descriptions Risk Risk description Liability risk We assume liability risk by issuing insurance contracts under which we agree to compensate the policyholder or beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event affecting the policyholder occurs.
This risk includes mortality and morbidity risk, as well as non-life risk from events such as fire or accident.
Market risk Market risk is the risk of a financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
We separately consider currency translation risk, which relates to the translation of earnings and capital to our reporting currency.
Credit and counterparty risk This relates to the risk of credit defaults.
It includes lending risk, where a borrower becomes unable to repay outstanding balances for instance banking credit risk, as well as counterparty risk where an asset is not repaid in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The risk of credit spreads changing is included under market risk.
Business risk The risk that business performance will be below projections as a result of negative variances in new business volumes and margins, and lapse, rebate and expense experience.
Liquidity risk The risk that liquid assets may not be available to pay obligations at a reasonable cost, when due.
Operational risk The risk arising from operational activities, for example a failure of a major systems, or losses incurred as a consequence of people and or process failures, including external events.
Compliance and regulatory risk The risk that laws and regulations will be breached.
Including risk of regulatory intervention resulting in sanctions being imposed or a temporary restriction on the business ability to operate and or an additional regulatory capital charge.
It also includes failure to adapt to regulatory change and business conduct risk.
Strategic risk The risk of failing to implement the business strategy and the management of associated changes to the business.
Risk appetite metrics Measure Severity Explanation Earnings at Risk EaR 1 in 10 The reduction in pre-tax IFRS adjusted operating profit AOP over a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
EaR is an indicator of potential earnings volatility shareholder measure.
Economic Capital at Risk ECaR 7 in 10,000 1 in 200 The reduction in post-tax economic value broadly defined as a market value balance from 2014 onwards sheet basis for insurance entities and IFRS equity for other companies over a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded seven times in 10,000 years 99.93% confidence level that the event will not occur.
During 2013, the confidence level for our internal measure was reviewed, and from 2014 onwards we will calculate our ECaR using a 1 in 200 year severity, which is more closely aligned to the emerging regulatory capital standard.
ECaR helps us to optimise risk-based decisions.
The stress tests underlying ECaR allow us to monitor our exposures and deepen our understanding of where the business could further improve its capital allocation.
ECaR is similar to the solvency capital requirement measure in Solvency II and has been calculated and used within the Group for more than five years.
It provides an internal view of required capital and risk profile ie.
relative risk exposures and directional interactions to support strategy.
The methodology allows for diversification both between different risks within entities and across sectors and territories.
Cash Flow at Risk CFaR 1 in 10 The reduction in the cash portion of earnings over a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
Operational risk OpRisk 1 in 10 The reduction in pre-tax economic value due to once in 10 years unexpected operational loss events 90% confidence level.
During 2014 a risk culture metric will be included 85 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT continued The risk profile in South Africa is well diversified, reflecting the diverse Risk profile of the Old Mutual Group by region nature of our business in this region across life insurance, property and Old Mutual currently assesses and reports regulatory capital adequacy casualty and banking.
This profile has remained largely stable over the under the EUs Financial Groups Directive FGD.
We have deferred year, with a slight increase in liability risk within Emerging Markets due our planned transition to managing regulatory capital adequacy to a strengthening in the basis for assessing longevity risk.
on a Solvency II basis in line with the delayed implementation of the Solvency II schedule.
Our FGD coverage ratio at December 2013 is In Old Mutual Wealth, we are mainly exposed to market and business comfortably above our target.
For more information on our current risk.
The market risk arises primarily from asset-based fee risk, and the FGD position, please refer to the Key Performance Indicators section business risk is driven largely by expenses, mass lapse and rebate risk.
The operational risk exposure increased during the year, reflecting the accepted short-term increase from delivery of significant change The Groups risk profile is based on standalone economic capital at initiatives over the next two to three years, as well as refinement of risk: the relative contribution of each risk is determined before allowing the methodology for assessing the operational risk.
for the impact of diversification between risks.
Risk exposures in the US region are concentrated in asset-based fee The pie charts below set out our risk profile by region, with an risk, which is part of market risk, and operational risk.
This is reflective indication of the relevant proportion of risk exposure in economic of the asset management nature of the business.
The regional view is broadly aligned with our four strategic growth regions, with Africa, Latin America and Asia included Movements in asset markets affect the fund-related management fees within the profile of our South African businesses.
Old Mutual Bermuda we earn from client portfolios.
In our asset management businesses this is included in the overall Group profile, but not shown separately in was previously classified as business risk, but we have now reclassified the regional view as this business is now in run-off and represents it as market risk for consistency with the classification in our insurance a relatively small proportion of our Group economic capital.
The impact on our overall Group risk profile and South Africa risk profile is negligible, but for US Asset Management it results in all business risk being reclassified as market risk.
US Asset Management Old Mutual Wealth Emerging Markets, Nedbank and Property & Casualty 5% 3% 6% 26% 22% 17% 57% 43% 2% 4% 28% 6% 26% 68% 15% 42% Market Credit and counterparty Business Liability 28% Operational Currency translation The risk profile of the Group is based on standalone economic capital at risk, ie.
the relative contribution of each risk is determined before allowing for the impact of diversification between risks, as at 30 June 2013 Note that the South African businesses includes our exposure to Africa, Latin America and Asia Note the above excludes Old Mutual Bermuda which provides the remaining 2% of economic capital Old Mutual plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The Groups current overall risk profile is set out below.
This allows Risk culture for additional risks at Group level not included in the pie charts Culture and values alignment across the Group is embedded through overleaf, most notably currency translation risk due to our significant our Code of Conduct and our ACT NOW!
The surplus assets in South Africa.
level of embedding and alignment across the Group is measured and monitored through our performance management system and annual OMG group-wide culture survey.
Risk and control culture, which is a subset of the broader business culture, relates to how behaviours and judgements support a strong risk 20% 22% governance framework.
During 2013 we began an initial approach to assess, measure and monitor risk culture.
This involved a top-down assessment by the Group control functions, based on a series of 50 indicators covering a range of areas such as effectiveness of risk management, quality of management information, escalations, controls, tone from the top, governance and remuneration incentives.
11% 9% 100% The framework has provided a basis for discussions with business unit executives on areas for future focus and improvement.
The top-down analysis will be supplemented with a bottom-up assessment that will be included in our annual culture survey from 2014 onwards.
We have 14% also included a risk metric and risk appetite for risk culture in our risk 24% management framework.
Risk culture and conduct is also receiving increased focus from a supervisory perspective and our focus on customer culture and values Market places us in a good position to respond to these developments.
Credit and counterparty Business The Groups current topical risks Liability The table in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section summarises the Groups top five topical risks.
Our top risk assessment considers Operational the likelihood and severity of risks, where the severity assessment Currency translation considers the financial, reputational, regulatory, people and legal The Groups risk profile is based on standalone economic capital at risk: ie.
the relative contribution impact of a risk.
of each risk is determined before allowing for the impact of diversification between risks, as at 30 June 2013 These risks are closely monitored and overseen by Group, which gives regular updates to the Board and Executive Risk Committees.
Our Currency translation risk represents almost a quarter of our Group risk business is also impacted by a number of inherent risks such as the profile.
This risk relates mainly to the translation of surplus capital from exposure to market levels, which drives a significant proportion of our rand to pound and is a structural feature of our Group.
As our capital capital requirement.
Although market risk is material, a large portion is held where our risks are, the risk would only be realised if we were is from the inherent risk within our product offering, as we are exposed to require transfer of surplus capital between regions during periods to the impact of the market movements on asset-based fees generated of stress.
We will continue to enhance our economic capital and stress and scenario testing framework, and further embed these within our business during 2014.
