PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Groups overall risk profile and capital position remains stable despite difficult economic conditions and weakened global recovery.
Our risk profile is considered through different lenses, reflecting the Our business is also affected by a number of inherent risks, such as the possible effect of risk on earnings, capital and the future sustainability exposure to market levels and insurance risk, which drives a significant of our business.
The table below summarises the Groups top five proportion of our capital requirement and earnings at risk.
Although topical risks, taking into account the likelihood and severity of risks, market risk is material, a large portion is inherent within the nature of where the severity assessment considers the financial, reputational, our product offering, as we are exposed to the impact of market regulatory, people and legal impact of a risk.
These risks are largely movements on asset-based fees generated from client-selected strategic in nature and are closely monitored and overseen by Group investment.
Our risk exposure to earnings and capital is measured and management, which gives regular updates to the Board and Executive monitored half-yearly, with more frequent monitoring of key risk Risk Committees.
indicators to identify and track developing trends.
More information on our risk and capital management and risk profile is contained in the Risk and Capital Management section in this Annual Report.
Additional risk information is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements, note E, in this Annual Report.
Risk description 2013 and beyond Risk mitigation and management action 1.
Potential slowing of the South Customers propensity to save and to Understanding customers financial position African economy purchase and maintain insurance policies at an individual level at the point of sale.
A significant portion of our earnings comes is a function of, among other factors, their Managing premium collections and from our South African businesses.
In our disposable income and their confidence in monitoring for early indicators of financial insurance and investment businesses, our their future prospects.
earnings are at risk if our customers are will be affected by the rate of increase of not able to keep up premiums on existing customers real incomes, the unemployment Monitoring multiple external economic business, or if they cancel existing policies rate in the economy and levels of consumer factors and incorporating these into stress or withdraw their savings earlier than confidence.
Each of these factors is in turn and scenario testing to understand our anticipated.
Additionally our future profits affected by macro-economic factors, such as earnings and capital resilience to severe will be at risk if customers do not buy inflation and interest rates, which is outside macro-economic events.
Management insurance policies from us or invest their of our control and difficult to predict.
actions have been identified to mitigate the savings with us at the levels we anticipate.
impact on earnings of a pessimistic low Whilst our business plans assume nominal growth scenario.
This may also impact credit risk, as GDP growth in South Africa in the next discussed overleaf.
2 to 3 years that is lower than its long-term trend rate, other scenarios have also been considered.
Old Mutual plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Risk description 2013 and beyond Risk mitigation and management action 2. Credit risk across the Group Our credit risk remains within appetite.
We monitor credit loss ratios on an ongoing One of our largest single quantifiable risks However, the high level of personal basis and these are broadly within target to the Group is our exposure to banking indebtedness and pressure on consumers range.
In addition, we review the quality of credit risk from lending and other financing in South Africa remain a challenge.
credit portfolios to ensure levels of credit activities through our exposure to Nedbank.
As highlighted in the first risk above, this impairment provisions are adequate.
Despite tight controls and processes, profits is dependent on macro-economic factors For unsecured lending, Nedbank and OMF remain sensitive to relatively small that are outside our control.
continue to apply strict affordability criteria movements in the credit loss ratios.
Our credit exposure is concentrated in to ensure loans are granted within Our exposure to Nedbank is primarily risk to secured lending through Nedbank.
Credit scoring, earnings, as Nedbanks capital and liquidity including elements of behavioural scoring requirements are both met from its own Unsecured lending exposure is small in and overall financial fitness, continue available resources.
comparison to the total lending book.
Nedbank, the unsecured lending book There is also credit risk within the Emerging reduced over 2013.
Within Old Mutual Stress testing is carried out at both Nedbank Markets business which is expected to Finance we experienced controlled growth and Emerging Markets to understand increase due to planned growth: off a low base, applying stringent exposure to credit events.
Our unsecured lending joint venture, affordability requirements and strict Old Mutual Finance OMF Large concentrations are monitored at credit criteria.
Group level, although there is little Credit spread risk through Old Mutual During 2014 we will have rights through concentration or aggregation of Specialised Finance OMSFIN Nedbank to acquire up to a 20% stake in individual credits outside of Nedbank The South African life business, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated ETI.
predominantly through the management In 2014 we will also have the opportunity for of assets backing annuity products Emerging Markets to increase its stake in Within Mutual & Federal there is credit risk OMF.
This would further increase the overall exposure through holdings in the credit Group exposure to credit lending risk.
guarantee insurer, CGIC A building society in Zimbabwe, although the exposures are currently small in the Group context.
Credit risk outside Nedbank and Emerging Markets is relatively limited.
33 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk description 2013 and beyond Risk mitigation and management action 3.
Currency translation risk In 2013, the rand depreciated from R13.77 to Holding capital resources including the At a Group level our earnings, dividend and R17.43 against the pound, following a period Groups issued debt to meet our capital regulatory surplus capital are expressed in of some years during which the rand requirements in matched currencies and pounds but the majority of the Groups exchange rate was in a range of R10 to R15 servicing interest on debt with matching earnings and its surplus capital are to the pound.
Future exchange rates are earnings.
The translation of our difficult to predict but there are some The balance of cash flows earned in rand rand earnings and capital are therefore macro-economic factors that point to and other currencies is closely monitored affected by movements in exchange rates.
possible further rand weakness in the and the dividend policy, through its link to medium-term.
These include the current earnings, in part addresses this risk.
account deficit, 6.5% of GDP in Q4 2013, and the possibility of capital outflows from In addition, the Groups plans to grow the South Africa as some external investors may proportion of earnings in currencies other sell their holdings of South African than the rand in the medium-term is expected government bonds should global interest to reduce the proportion of the Groups rates rise.
dividend that is met by remittances in rand from group-owned businesses.
Forward currency contracts are used to hedge expected rand cash flows used to make dividend payments in pounds.
Understanding of the resilience of the Groups capital and capacity to pay dividends in the event of significant appreciation and depreciation of the currencies to which the Group is exposed is improved through stress and scenario testing.
Strategic execution risk and pace of The Old Mutual Wealth business plan seeks During the past year new governance change across the Old Mutual Group to transform the business into a simpler, structures have been put in place in both There is currently, and for the foreseeable unified business with updated IT systems.
Old Mutual Wealth and Emerging Markets future, a high degree of execution risk This strategy focuses mainly on the UK and to streamline their boards, aiming to associated with the scale and pace of international markets.
The level of leverage experienced local non-executive change across the Group.
Most notably: operational risk within Old Mutual Wealth is director skills and experience to more increasing in the short-term, reflecting the effectively challenge key strategic initiatives.
Implementation of the outsourcing significant changes to the operating model arrangement with IFDS within Old Mutual In addition, executive and risk functions have and staffing changes resulting in less Wealth been enhanced in many areas to provide continuity.
In addition, a key focus over the clearer line of oversight.
next few years will be on the execution of the The build out of the asset management outsourcing arrangement with IFDS and of capability within Old Mutual Wealth For key projects across the Group, there is the Intrinsic Financial Services acquisition.
centralised oversight at Group Head Office Emerging Markets is facing significant over and above the business unit oversight.
During 2013, Emerging Markets acquired transformation in the South African life stakes in a number of businesses across and property and casualty businesses, Within Old Mutual Wealth, there is executive Africa.
During 2014, work will continue on and simultaneous expansion into East oversight of the IFDS outsourcing project, integrating these businesses and pursuing and West Africa.
together with a dynamic programme further acquisitions.
governance approach that takes into account lessons learnt from previous major projects eg.
Retail Distribution Review implementation and activity prioritisation.
We will continue to focus on the control environment and prompt escalation in order to mitigate the increased operational risk.
Old Mutual plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Risk description 2013 and beyond Risk mitigation and management action 5.
Changing shape of the industry due Our customers needs are evolving.
The strategic initiatives across the Group to changing customer needs and Consumers want to be more in control of are focused on streamlining our business regulations, particularly consumertheir finances.
With the growing digital era to allow us to adapt more easily to the focused regulations and technological advances, consumers changing customer needs and regulations.
Attracting new and retaining existing increasingly rely on and prefer technological This includes implementation of IT solutions customers is key to delivering our strategy.
tools for a number of tasks.
Despite this, that allow us to implement new products and New and evolving consumer-focused a need for individual attention remains.
regulation, non-traditional distribution Consumers seek quality as well as original In addition, our brand promise and methods, new technologies and changing offerings that meet their personal needs, and commitment to operating responsibly, with a customers needs and preferences it is important that service remains convenient strong customer focus and culture, positions are altering the distribution and competitive both in terms of time and effort.
us well to respond to consumer-focused landscape across the Groups geographies.
From a regulatory perspective, regulators regulation.
This may place business plans and our across the globe continue to focus on the fair growth strategy at risk if our business model Our KPIs include a customer advocacy treatment of customers and both principles is not flexible to allow us to adapt quickly measure in the form of the Net Promoter and appropriate regulation in this area are and effectively to the changing landscape.
The NPS is a customer loyalty evolving.
In particular, there is increased metric that looks at how likely our customers focus on product design, advice and the are to recommend Old Mutual to their family product life cycle after the sales process.
Leadership Behaviours, which are formally measured as part of our performance management system, includes a behaviour around putting the customer first, and we measure our customer culture annually through our group-wide culture survey.
From a regulatory perspective, where there are similar regulatory themes developing, we leverage knowledge from different geographies across the Group to anticipate and implement the regulations as they arise.
