How we manage our risks We have in place tried and tested risk management processes that enable ustoexecute our strategy The Board is ultimately responsible The Groups Risk Management Framework for maintaining the Groups risk management framework and system of internal control, and monitoring their Top down Board effectiveness.
However, such systems t 0WFSTJHIU BOE t 0WFSBMM SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ GPS UIF SPVQ T are designed to manage rather than leadership of risk risk management framework and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve management system of internal control business objectives.
As such they approach t 4FUT SJTL BQQFUJUF BOE NPOJUPST can provide only reasonable, and not actual levels of risk against set appetite absolute, assurance against material t EFOUJmFT BOE NPOJUPST FNFSHJOH misstatement or loss.
risksto the Groups strategy The Group has a risk management t 1SPWJEFT MFBEFSTIJQ PO UIF importance of risk management framework in place comprising formal andinternal control committees, a suite of formal policies, a common risk assessment process and risk review functions.
"The framework is underpinned by the concept of three lines of defence with first-line operations, second-line control functions and third-line review functions, including internal audit, designed to monitor and control total Executive Board Risk Committee Audit Committee exposure to different risks within the risk t &YFDVUJWF #PBSE t ""TTFTTFT t ""TTVSBODF PO UIF appetite levels set by the Board."
"Risk Committee effectiveness of effectiveness of the supported by the Groups risk Groups systems of The Groups Risk Committee is a formal Financial, Distribution management internal control committee of the Board with the and Operational framework t ""QQSPWFT BOOVBM responsibility to monitor, on behalf of riskcommittees t 3FWJFXT UIF OUFSOBM ""VEJU BOE the Board, the effectiveness of the risk t NQMFNFOUT BOE completeness of Compliance Monitoring monitors levels SJTLT JEFOUJmFE CZ plans and reviews management framework and system of ofrisk against set management and TJHOJmDBOU mOEJOHT internal controls."
The Risk Committee is riskappetite theadequacy of t. POJUPST UIF JOUFHSJUZ chaired by an Independent non-executive mitigating actions t 3FWJFX BOE DIBMMFOHF of the Groups Director, Ian Cormack see Risk Committee of operational mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT JEFOUJmDBUJPO BOE report on page 53.
In addition, the Group assessment of risks has an Executive Board Risk Committee supported by three sub-committees tasked with overseeing the management of financial, distribution and operational risks, respectively.
The Executive Risk Operations Committees are chaired by the Chief Risk t OUFSOBM DPOUSPMT FNCFEEFE BDSPTT Officer and meet quarterly.
"Bottom up alloperations and functions t EFOUJmDBUJPO t $PNNPO SJTL JEFOUJmDBUJPO assessment, assessment and mitigation process mitigation and escalation of risk Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 The Groups risk management function t "" TUSBUFHJD QMBOOJOH QSPDFTT XIJDI TFUT Key areas of focus in 2013 works closely with the business to monitor a medium-term strategy based on a clear risk issues, to identify new and emerging understanding of the risk inherent in the This year we have focussed on the risks, and establish appropriate procedures markets in which the Group operates: following areas of the Groups risk to mitigate those risks."
"This enables the management framework: t "" QMBOOJOH BOE CVEHFU QSPDFTT UIBU risk management function to assess delivers detailed annual and quarterly t &OTVSJOH UIBU PVS 3JTL $PNNJUUFFT the overall risk exposure and maintain forecasts and targets for Board approval: and wider governance and oversight a consolidated key risk prole that is arrangements continue to direct reviewed each quarter by management t. BOBHFNFOU JOGPSNBUJPO TZTUFNT and oversee our risk management and the Executive Risk Committees enabling the Board to receive activities effectively and meet the and reported to the Risk Committee."
"comprehensive reporting of financial needs of a listed company: Supporting risk proles are maintained at and operational performance on a executive sub-committee and individual regular basis: t 3FGSFTIJOH UIF BQQSPBDI XF UBLF UP department levels and all are subject setting and monitoring risk appetite t "" TFU PG GPSNBM QPMJDJFT JODMVEJOH DMFBSMZ to review and challenge by the risk including the denition of a new suite dened risk appetites, which govern the management function."
"of Key Risk Indicator KRI metrics management, control and oversight of aligned with our Key Performance Partnership maintains a consistent the key risks faced by the Group: Indicators to identify changes to Group-wide process for the timely t "" EFUBJMFE QPJOU JO UJNF DBQJUBM our risk exposures and to support identication and assessment of the assessment on a realistic basis is management and the Boards risks to which it is exposed, whether they performed at least annually, and monitoring of risk: be externally generated e. g. regulatory, resultsin a greater understanding of economic, competitive etc."
or arising t 'PSNBMMZ EFmOJOH UIF #PBSE T WJFX the financial consequences of the risks from the Groups own operations.
"of, and appetite for, conduct risk and faced by the business enabling effective The risk assessment process extends to all the sources of conduct risk in our capital management: activities including the evaluation of new operations and activities: and and changed business activities and the t "" $PNQMJBODF GVODUJPO XIJDI JEFOUJmFT t &TUBCMJTIJOH B iTFDPOE MJOFw ""DUVBSJBM management of outsourced environments."
and monitors the control of our Assurance function, reporting to the Risks are identied and assessed against compliance risks and ensures compliance Actuarial Function Holder, to review Partnerships business objectives and with regulatory requirements: independently the work and reporting risk appetite.
"All risks are assessed with t ""O OUFSOBM ""VEJU GVODUJPO XIJDI of our actuarial teams."
and without the mitigating effect of provides assurance to the Board on existing controls.
If existing controls do not the effectiveness of internal controls The Board considers that the controls reduce the risk to an acceptable level then in relation to the key risks identied.
effective during 2013 were appropriate additional management and operational Internal audits are undertaken in to the needs of the Group and complied procedures are identied and implemented.
accordance with an annual risk based with all relevant guidance.
Nevertheless, Clear criteria exist for the escalation of planapproved by the Board Audit it is committed to the highest standards new or changed risks and the on-going Committee: and of governance and business conduct and status of key risks is reported each quarter will ensure that those controls continue through the consolidated key risk prole.
"t "" EFUBJMFE SFWJFX QSPDFTT BSPVOE to develop in line with the requirements the production of monthly, quarterly, of the business, its stakeholders and half-yearly and annual financial The Groups system industry best-practice."
"ofinternal control subsidiaries of the Group are regulated In accordance with the requirements and as such are subject to the supervision The key elements of the Groups system of the Solvency II directive the Group is of the Financial Conduct Authority and ofinternal control are: introducing an Own Risk and Solvency Prudential Regulatory Authority over t "" EFUBJMFE #PBSE PWFSOBODF."
BOVBM Assessment, carried out at least annually, their activities, including their systems setting out a clear organisational which is intended to provide a view for the of business control.
Members of the structure, composition of the Board, Board as to the overall solvency position Board and senior management regularly roles and responsibilities, systems and of the regulated companies and the Group, meet the Groups regulatory supervisors, controls framework, authorities and taking into consideration the risk prole, conducting the relationship in an open and matters reserved for each Board and risk appetite and the way in which these constructive manner.
standing committee: elements are expected to develop across the business planning cycle.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
