Our principal risks and uncertainties The risks listed here are those most likely to materially affect our business The Group issues contracts whereby The Groups key financial risk is that it accepts insurance risk, principally the proceeds from financial assets are longevity risk, in return for a premium.
not sufficient to fund the obligations O BEEJUJPO UIF SPVQ JT FYQPTFE UP arising from contracts with policyholders.
SJTL UISPVHI JUT mOBODJBM BTTFUT BOE The most important components of this liabilities, its reinsurance assets and financial risk are interest rate risk and policyholder liabilities, and through credit risk.
The Group is not exposed to its operations.
any equity price risk, and is only exposed to currency risk to an immaterial extent as any exposure to non-sterling currency is matched with derivative contracts to swap that exposure to sterling.
The Group is exposed to property price risk through itsequity release assets.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are summarised in thefollowing table.
I think your service is spot-on and have recommended your company to two friends.
Mr R, Partnership customer Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 Underwriting, pricing and reserve risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Leveraging Underwriting and pricing risk is the As the Groups insurance business is We continued to invest in our Partnerships risk that insurance contracts will targeted at people with conditions underwriting and pricing operations proprietary be written that are not within the affecting their life expectancy, or in 2013 through the recruitment Intellectual Boards risk appetite, or that the people seeking to fund domiciliary of additional senior, experienced Property premium charged for that business is or residential care, the underwriting personnel and the on-going not adequate to cover the risks borne risk is managed through the use renement of our assessment of life by the Group.
of highly trained, and qualied expectancy based on our mortality underwriting staff, together with experience and view on future The accurate pricing of non-standard detailed underwriting manuals mortality improvements.
annuities is dependent on the designed to cover a large array Groups assessment of the impact on ofmedical conditions.
prospective customers longevity of various medical and lifestyle factors Partnership has developed its own and an estimate of future investment proprietary underwriting manuals yields and credit default.
for retirement annuity business and those seeking care funding, based The actual timing of deaths and on industry standard mortality investment income experience tables modied to take account may be inconsistent with the of experience data recorded assumptions and pricing models used by Partnership.
in underwriting and setting prices for its products.
The assumptions used in the reserving for future policyholder Reserving risk is the risk that the payments are set based on available reserves have been calculated market and experience data, on the incorrectly, or the assumptions used advice of Partnerships Actuarial in the calculations are inappropriate.
The assumptions are approved by the Board.
The reserves are calculated using recognised actuarial methods with due regard to the actuarial principles set out in the PRAs sourcebooks, including appropriate levels of prudential margin against future adverse experience.
Specic insurance risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Insurance risk on the Groups The Groups longevity and mortality No change in 2013. risk adjusted annuity contracts arises through experience is monitored on a regular returns longevity risk and through the risk basis and compared to the underlying that operating factors, such as assumptions used to reserve for administration expenses, are worse future insurance payments.
Insurance risk on the exposure to longevity and mortality Groups protection policies arises risk is reduced through the use of through higher than expected reinsurance.
Expense risk is managed mortality levels.
through regular assessment and quarterly reforecasting of expenses incurred against budgets.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Concentration risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising The Group writes annuity contracts The Group manages this risk No change in 2013. risk adjusted for the provision of retirement income throughthe use of external returns or care fees, and protection insurance reinsurance arrangements.
contracts, primarily for individuals in the UK with one or more medical conditions that are likely to reduce their overall life expectancy.
The Groups insurance risk is therefore concentrated on longevity and mortality risk.
Interest rate risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Interest rate risk arises from open The Group manages its interest We benefited during 2013 from risk adjusted positions in xed and variable rate rate risk within an asset liability the narrowing of spreads between returns stock issued by government and management ALM framework risk-free interest rates and the corporate bodies that are exposed that has been developed to achieve yields achieved on the Groups to general and specic market investment returns in excess of corporate bonds.
The Group is exposed its obligations under insurance and the continued volatility of yields to the market movements in interest contracts.
The principal technique against historic trends, increases rates to the extent that the asset of the ALM framework is to match the inherent risk that spreads may value movement is different to the assets to the liabilities arising from widen in 2014.
The Groups relative accompanying movement in the insurance contracts by reference exposure to credit risk reduced in value of its insurance liabilities.
to the type of benets payable 2013 and our strategy to continue topolicyholders.
to investigate alternative assets The difference between asset and is expected to reduce the Groups liability movements can arise from exposure to spread risk through both a change in the absolute level increased diversication.
of interest rates, and from a change in the spread that is the level of interest rates applying to an asset in excess of the risk-free interest rate.
Market credit risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Market credit risk is the risk that The Groups Investment Management Underlying market credit conditions risk adjusted theGroup invests in assets that Guidelines set out maximum improved during 2013 as improving returns maydefault.
If an asset fails to repay exposure to bonds issued by a single, economic conditions reduced the either interest or capital, or that or related group of, counterparty ies likelihood of default.
payment is signicantly delayed, the and to credit ratings.
The allowance Group may make losses and be unable made for issuer default in the Groups to meet liabilities as they fall due.
valuation is regularly monitored and kept up to date.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32 Property risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Property risk arises from the provision The Group ensures that the purchase Equity release assets as a proportion risk adjusted of a protected equity guarantee on prices of loan assets reect a prudent of total assets under management returns the mortgages underlying the equity assessment of future property price at the end of 2013 was 21% an release assets purchased.
Careful attention is paid to increase from 15% at the end of is exposed to the risk that property the loan to value ratio in order to 2012.
Our strategy to continue values do not rise sufficiently, or limit the risk exposure to the Group.
to investigate alternative assets that the property is not maintained The Group seeks to avoid excess is expected to reduce the Groups properly, to recover the full value of concentration of property holdings exposure to property risk through the loan made plus accrued interest.
Liquidity risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Liquidity risk arises where cash ows The Groups ALM framework ensures No change in 2013. risk adjusted from investments and from new that cash ows are sufficient to meet returns premiums prove insufficient to meet both longand short-term liabilities.
our obligations to policyholders and In current and expected market other third parties as they fall due.
conditions and operating environments, cash ows from new business exceed the obligations to existing policyholders.
In addition, the Group maintains a minimum level of cash and highly liquid assets such that, in the extreme scenario of new business cash ows being insufficient to meet current obligations, those obligations can continue to be met.
Counterparty credit risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Credit risk arises if another party The Group has arrangements with its No change in 2013. risk adjusted fails to honour its obligations to the reinsurers whereby most reinsurance returns Group including failure to honour premiums are either deposited back these obligations in a timely manner.
to the Group or held by a third party The Groups primary credit risk ina trust arrangement.
exposure arises from the inability In addition, the Groups reinsurance of the reinsurers to meet their claim policy is to seek to choose companies payment obligations.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Distribution risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Improving Distribution risk arises from adverse The Group derives competitive We experienced a decline in the access for changes in the Groups competitive advantage from its proprietary non-standard annuity market of customers landscape or its relationships underwriting intellectual property 15%.
The Groups core Retirement with intermediaries.
which it considers to be unique in sales reduced by 0.6% over the the non-standard annuity and care period.
It is the Groups strategy to created by the introduction of continue to innovate and introduce the Retail Distribution Review new products and propositions that RDR and Gender Neutral Pricing leverage this intellectual property at the end of 2012, has led to a toprotect its competitive position.
challenging sales environment for the Groups products.
The Group maintains a multichannel distribution strategy The Groups out-performance of its in order to diversify and reduce underlying market was supported concentration risk and has strong by the completion of a number long-term relationships with its key of Dened benefit fide-risking distribution partners.
transactions demonstrating the Groups ability to innovate and leverage its intellectual property.
We believe that the fundamental drivers expected to deliver market growth over the medium and longterm remain intact.
Operational risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Operational risk arises from The Group maintains a suite of risk We continued to invest in our risk adjusted inadequate or failed internal management tools to help manage operational capability and returns processes, people and systems its operational risks including infrastructure in 2013 with key hires orfrom external events.
facilitated risk and control selfin the areas of finance, pricing, legal assessments, risk event management and compliance, the continuance of and loss reporting.
Underlying and major projects to support our data informing the operation of these platforms and underwriting engines, tools is a framework of formal policies and investment in our physical and controls which govern the infrastructure, most notably our management and oversight of the move to our new corporate headrisks faced by the Group.
These include business continuity and disaster recovery arrangements.
Operational risk is overseen by the Executive Operational Risk Committee.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34 Regulatory, legal and political environment risk Strategic Change objective Description How we manage the risk in 2013 Description of risk change Maximising Regulatory, legal and political The Groups strategic planning Agreement, in November 2013, risk adjusted environment risk arises where process sets a medium-term strategy on the Omnibus II directive by the returns changes in regulation or legislation based on a clear understanding of trilogue between the European may result in a detrimental effect on the regulatory, legal and political risks Council, European Parliament the Groups strategy and profitability.
inherent in the markets in which it and Commission has signicantly operates.
This is informed by active reduced uncertainty as to the final and constructive engagement Solvency II rules and the expected with policymakers and regulators implementation date for rms of both directly and indirectly through 1January 2016. trade associations.
This supports the Groups continued Our planning and response capability preparations for the new regime and is supported by continued monitoring its evaluation of its available actions of the regulatory, legal and to mitigate any potentially adverse political landscape.
effects of the final rules.
Separately, 2013 saw the reorganisation of the former Financial Services Authority into two successor bodies, the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority.
Whilst it remains too early to determine with any certainty how the two bodies will apply their new powers the Group remains actively engaged with both regulators and continues to invest inits regulatory control functions.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
