Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Risks Details of the groups key risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks and progress made against each risk in 2013, are as follows: REGULATORY RISK The risk of loss arising from a breach of existing regulation or regulatory changes in the markets within which the group operates.
There is increased focus on regulation, particularly for non-standard lenders and there is a potential read-across from any legislation or regulatory measures introduced to address the practices of payday lenders.
The FCA will replace the Office of Fair Trading OFT as the regulatory body for consumer credit businesses from 1 April 2014.
The consultation on the authorisation, supervision and enforcement regimes as well as conduct rules and guidance has now closed and final guidance was issued in March 2014.
At the end of November 2013, the government announced that it intended to legislate to introduce a cap on the total cost of credit for payday loans.
The duty on the FCA is to introduce the cap by January 2015 and was formally established through the Financial Services Banking Reform Act in December 2013.
The FCA will determine the level and nature of the cap, as well as the precise definition of the loans to be covered by the cap.
The FCA intends to conduct research and economic analysis before consulting on specific proposals during 2014.
It will also consider the lessons of other countries that have adopted this power to ensure that any cap is right for UK consumers.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 A central in-house legal team is in place which monitors legislative changes and supports divisional Bristol University Personal Finance Research Centre study into a compliance functions.
variable cap on total cost of credit concluded consistently with previous studies against rate caps.
Expert third-party legal advice is taken where necessary.
On 1 January 2014, Chief Executive, Peter Crook was appointed Divisional compliance functions are in place which monitor compliance and report to divisional boards.
a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel allowing the group to fully participate in discussions on the transition of regulation Long relationship and developed credibility with key regulators who recognise the different dynamics to the FCA and develop transitionary programmes in both the of the home credit and credit card sectors compared with the payday lending model.
Consumer Credit Division CCD and Vanquis Bank.
There is ongoing constructive dialogue with regulators.
Ongoing proactive engagement with regulators both in the UK and the EU.
Full and active participation in all relevant regulatory review and consultation processes in the UK and EU.
Satsuma has been closely positioned to home credit in terms of fixed cost, flexibility and close customer contact.
The group does not provide payday lending.
CREDIT RISK The risk that the group will suffer unexpected losses in the event of customer defaults.
Defaults in the non-standard market are typically higher than in more mainstream markets.
There is continued pressure on home credit customers incomes from inflation and any deterioration in the employment market could increase the level of defaults.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 The Vanquis Bank and CCD credit committees set policy and regularly review credit performance.
Vanquis Bank has continued to apply consistently tight credit standards on both new accounts and credit line increases.
Credit risk is subject to ongoing review in the current economic climate and management continues to maintain its tight underwriting stance.
Record low delinquency levels in Vanquis Bank has enabled the business to generate a risk-adjusted margin of 34.2%, well ahead Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly reporting on KPIs.
Vanquis Bank uses highly bespoke underwriting including full external bureau data: a welcome call is Underwriting has been tightened in home credit during the final conducted prior to issuing credit: initial credit lines are low typically 250 : customers are re-scored quarter of 2013. monthly: an intensive call centre-based operation focuses on collections.
The focus on collections performance in home credit has Home credit loans are underwritten face-to-face by agents in the customers home: agents generally resulted in a stabilisation of the arrears profile in late 2013 and a maintain weekly contact with the customer and stay up to date with their circumstances: agents subsequent improvement through early 2014. commission is predominantly based on collections not credit issued: application and behavioural scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: loans are small-sum and short-term in nature.
The Satsuma business model has been developed by combining the experience and knowledge of home credit and Vanquis Satsuma uses the knowledge from the home credit business and has built a bespoke scorecard using Bank with an inherent customer focus.
proprietary knowledge data as well as additional bureau data.
This is combined with Vanquis Bank's underwriting and collections techniques such as the initial welcome call.
Close customer contact is maintained through a dedicated 'agent on the phone' and ongoing contact through email, SMS and telephone.
88 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued BUSINESS RISK The risk of loss arising from the failure of the groups strategy or management actions over the planning horizon.
Increased marketing activity from existing competitors may impact Vanquis Banks growth rates.
Polish customers have a much greater propensity to use the credit card to access cash rather than at the point of sale which may impact the ability to export the UK business of Vanquis Bank into Poland.
CCD may not be able to build the necessary capability to capture the growth opportunity in the online loans market with Satsuma.
The continued pressure on customers incomes from rises in fuel, food and utility costs could impact the demand for credit, impairment and profitability in home credit.
Potential increased competition from competing formats such as direct mail and rent-to-own may reduce further the flow of new customers into home credit.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 A clear board strategy is in place.
Despite a modest increase in marketing activity by competitors, Vanquis Bank remains the most active participant in the nonA corporate planning conference CPC is held annually.
standard credit card market and booked a record 411,000 accounts in 2013 through the continued development of Central resource is in place to develop the corporate strategy.
New products and processes are thoroughly tested prior to roll-out.
The pilot credit card operation in Poland has developed an effective set of credit tools and the focus has now shifted to There is comprehensive monitoring of competitor products, pricing and strategy.
the development, marketing and distribution of its revolving Robust business change functions oversee change programmes.
The group has comprehensive monthly management accounts, a monthly rolling forecast and a CCDs home credit business continues to be repositioned as a biannual budgeting process.
leaner, better-quality, more modern, high returns business.
Loans are short-term in nature and, in home credit, agents visit customers in their homes and are Satsuma loans has made an encouraging start since its launch in therefore able to stay up to date with customer circumstances.
The capability is being built to support a more rapid development of the business from late 2014.
The group has demonstrated the ability to manage the business through the deterioration seen in the UK economy and employment market over the past five years.
REPUTATIONAL RISK The risk that an event or circumstance could adversely impact on the groups reputation, including adverse publicity from the activities of legislators, pressure groups and the media.
Media and pressure group activity increases during an economic downturn or when the company is performing well.
There is a reputational impact from increased focus on regulation, particularly of non-standard lenders and the read-across from any legislation or regulatory measures introduced to address the practices of payday lenders.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 Credit and collection policies are designed to ensure that both businesses adhere to responsible lending Customer satisfaction remains high in both CCD 93% and principles.
A compliance committee oversees the application of the FCAs treating customers fairly regime in Customer complaints remain low in both businesses.
Vanquis Bank and both the risk and credit committee within CCD oversee compliance with the OFTs Vanquis Bank has an extremely high success rate through the guidelines.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken in both businesses.
Continued investment and focus on Corporate Responsibility The group invests in a centrally coordinated community programme.
and investment in the community programme.
Specialist in-house teams, external advisors and established procedures are in place for dealing with Achieved maximum score rating and ranked joint first globally media issues.
for the second year running amongst financial services companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series which measures A proactive communication programme is targeted at key opinion formers and is coordinated centrally.
the environmental, social and governance ratings of listed companies worldwide.
The 130-year-old home credit business is well understood and has been subject to regular regulatory review and scrutiny.
89 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Risks continued OPERATIONAL RISK The risk of loss resulting from IT systems failure.
Vanquis Bank is reliant on third-party IT applications and systems providers: FDI for its core customer credit card platform: and Newcastle Building Society NBS for its retail deposit platform.
The repositioning of the home credit business relies heavily on the development and effective roll-out of technology.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 IT is managed in Vanquis Bank and CCD by experienced teams.
CCD's development and roll-out of the smartphone collections app and related Chip and Pin technology which allows agents There is significant experience of managing third party IT arrangements within the businesses.
to accept electronic payments is at an advanced stage.
Tablet computers for field managers will also be launched shortly There are established disaster recovery procedures which are tested on a regular basis.
which provides them with a mobile office.
This will free up significant time currently spent on office-based administration.
Specialist project teams are used to manage change programmes.
The group's IT systems are hosted by proven external specialist Well established change control and testing processes are established for new business developments.
suppliers and recovery arrangements have been extensively Insurance policies are in place to cover eventualities such as business interruption, loss of IT systems tested during 2013. and crime.
Rigorous selection processes for third-party suppliers to ensure that they are best in class.
Threats to agent safety make it unsafe to operate home collection.
Home credit agents are required to carry cash to issue credit and they receive cash as a result of their collections activities.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 Significant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff are safety conscious.
The group continues to focus significant time and effort promoting and training staff on safety and providing assistance Assistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety aware.
to agents to ensure they remain safety aware.
Induction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety awareness.
AIG continue to confirm that the group has a high standard of safety awareness across the group and its safety policies are Safety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
Safety incidents are monitored closely by management with follow-up actions taken.
CCDs development of Chip and Pin technology will reduce the level of cash carried by agents.
An annual independent audit of health and safety policies and procedures is carried out by the groups insurers, AIG.
The risk of loss resulting from loss or abuse of confidential data or systems.
Both Vanquis Bank and CCD utilise and store sensitive personal data as part of their day-to-day operations.
There continues to be heightened focus and emphasis on data loss by the Information Commissioners Office ICO.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 IT and physical security policies are in place.
A programme of IT security upgrades within Vanquis Bank including new firewalls, new network management tools and Dedicated resources are in place to support the management of information security.
themigration to a new payment processing firm.
Reporting of security-related incidents to divisional risk committees.
Processes surrounding physical security in home credit have been further enhanced.
Additional controls have been Specialist departments are in place in each business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
implemented to manage physical data distribution supported bya training and awareness programme.
There is regular fraud reporting to divisional boards and to the group audit committee.
Hierarchical field management structure and weekly agent performance reviews ensure a strong controls environment within home credit.
Loss of key management or reduction in staff morale impacts business performance.
The risk of loss of key staff has increased following the groups successful performance over recent years.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 Effective recruitment, retention and succession planning strategies are in place.
Detailed benchmarking of Vanquis Bank managements remuneration against industry peers.
The group has competitive remuneration and incentive structures.
Senior management turnover remained low through 2013.
Effective training and personal development plans are in place throughout thegroup.
90 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued LIQUIDITY RISK The risk that the group will have insufficient liquid resources available to fulfil its operational plans and or meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 The model of borrowing long and lending short results in a positive maturity mismatch, which means T he group has continued to make excellent progress in the duration of the receivables book is significantly less than the average duration of the groups strengthening its funding base in 2013. funding.
This profile significantly reduces the liquidity risk for the group.
O n 31 January 2014, the group renewed its syndicated bank A board-approved policy is in place to maintain committed borrowing facilities which provide funding facility of 382.5m through to May 2017. headroom for at least the following 12 months, after assuming that Vanquis Bank will fund 90% of its S uccessful issue of a fourth retail bond of 65m in March 2013. receivables book through retail deposits.
R etail deposits base increased from 327m to 435m during The groups strategy of maintaining committed facility headroom and diversifying funding sources has 2013, representing 51% of Vanquis Banks receivables against a resulted in a strong balance sheet position.
Liquidity is managed by an experienced central treasury department.
H eadroom on committed facilities of 235m as at 31 December Vanquis Bank maintains a liquid assets buffer in line with the PRAs liquidity guidelines.
2013 which, together with the retail deposits programme at Vanquis Bank, is sufficient to meet growth and contractual There is daily monitoring of liquid resources.
maturities until the seasonal peak in 2017.
T he group remains an investment grade credit, with a credit rating maintained at BBB with a stable outlook.
FINANCIAL RISK The risk that the group suffers a loss as a result of unexpected tax liabilities.
Tax authorities are placing greater emphasis on taxation controls in assessing tax risk and the associated level of scrutiny placed on companies.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 The group has a board-approved tax strategy which is aligned with its mission and core values and Procedures for verifying compliance with self-employed agent which has been shared with HMRC.
The strategy sets out the groups overall approach to tax, including policies have continued to be improved and embedded, and its tax governance framework, how tax risk management is embedded within the group's overall the group has continued to seek advance HMRC approval on corporate governance structure and how the group ensures it complies with the tax obligations in the a number of business developments potentially impacting on territories in which it operates.
Policies and procedures are in place which support the management of key tax risks, along with Worked positively and constructively with HMRC as part of documented systems, processes and controls to support the UK taxes which the group pays and the HMRC's review of the group's tax governance structure.
preparation and submission of related tax returns.
This includes policies and procedures which seek Continued the work which commenced in 2012 to ensure that to ensure that the agents engaged by the home credit business maintain their self-employed status.
Vanquis Bank's expansion into Poland complies with local Processes and controls supporting the calculation of UK taxes and preparation of related returns is tax obligations.
subject to annual internal audit review.
Confirmed the unconditional adoption of HMRCs Code of The group is committed to building open and straightforward relationships with tax authorities, Practice on Taxation for Banks, which sets out the principles and including having a regular and constructive dialogue with HMRC.
This regularly includes advance behaviours expected of banks with regard to tax.
discussion of transactions and keeping HMRC informed of key business developments, particularly those that could potentially impact on self-employed status of agents.
An experienced in-house team, supported by tax-aware personnel in the businesses, deals with all of the group's tax matters.
Advice is sought from external advisors on material transactions and whenever the necessary expertise is not available in-house.
PENSION RISK The risk that there may be insufficient assets to meet the liabilities of the groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The current economic environment results in increased volatility in equity markets and corporate bond yields.
Improving mortality rates in the UK.
MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2013 The defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed to new members from 1 January 2003.
The groups pension asset for accounting purposes stands at 29.2m as at 31 December 2013 2012: 23.0m.
Cash balance arrangements are now in place within the defined benefit pension scheme to reduce the exposure to improving mortality rates.
Annual contributions to the defined benefit scheme increased from 10m to 16m in 2013, following the triennial funding The pension investment strategy aims to maintain an appropriate balance of assets between equities valuation performed as at 1 June 2012. and bonds.
A revised investment strategy which includes an element of New employees since 2003 have been invited to join the groups defined contribution pension schemes liability-driven investments was developed and implemented which carry no investment or mortality risk for the group.
The defined benefit pension scheme was amended in 2012 so that accrued pension benefits are now linked to increases in CPI rather than future salary increases.
This reduces the future liabilities of the scheme.
