Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Managing our risks The group has a robust risk management framework which is overseen by the risk advisory committee on behalf of the board.
The committee is required to consider the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, keep them under review, review the framework to mitigate such risks and notify the board of changes in the status and control of risks.
The risk advisory group reviews thedivisional risk register four times a year and reports to the risk advisory committee.
1 For more information see pages 85-91 MONITORING AND REPORTING IDENTIFICATION Risk assessments and There is an ongoing action plans are monitored process of identifying regularly and overseen by risks which threaten divisional risk committees, the achievement of the risk advisory group and business objectives.
5 the risk advisory committee on behalf of the board.
2 RISK ACTION PLANS RISK APPETITE ADVISORY Action plans are Risk appetite sets the developed for any GROUP boundaries for acceptable risks where the levels of risk and enables level of exposure management to review is deemed to be and control business unacceptable.
activities and deliver thegroups strategy.
ASSESSMENT Each identified risk is assessed and graded in terms of probability, impact and the controls in place to mitigate therisk.
4 3 What weve achieved in 2013 What we have scheduled for 2014 Reviewed and approved the revised groups risk Finalise the frameworks, approach and processes to appetiteframework.
manage conduct risk within Vanquis Bank and CCD and the group as a whole.
Performed a full financial risk review.
Split the roles of Head of Audit and Risk to a Head of Established an overall risk management status report.
Audit David Mortlock and a Director of Strategy and Risk David Merrett from 1 January 2014.
Began to develop a separate conduct risk framework, approach and processes due to the transition to the Enhance the risk management framework which focuses FCA regime from 1 April 2014. on both the Vanquis Bank Polish pilot operation and the Satsuma loans business.
26 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our key risk overview Regulatory risk Reputational risk Liquidity risk The risk of loss arising from a The risk that an event or The risk that the group will have breach of existing regulation circumstance could adversely insufficient liquid resources or adverse future regulatory impact on the groups available to fulfil its operational changes in the markets within reputation, including adverse plans and or meet its financial which the group operates.
publicity from the activities of obligations as they fall due.
legislators, pressure groups andthe media.
Credit risk Operational risk Financial risk The risk that the group will The risk of loss resulting from The risk that the group suffers suffer unexpected losses in the ITsystems failure.
a loss as a result of unexpected event of customer defaults.
Threats to agent safety make it unsafe to operate homecollected credit.
The risk of loss resulting from loss Business risk Pension risk or abuse of confidential data or The risk of loss arising from the The risk that there may be systems.
failure of the groups strategy or insufficient assets to meet the Loss of key management or management actions over the liabilities of the groups defined reduction in staff morale planning horizon.
Alison Halsey Attendees by invitation: 4.
Peter Crook 2 Andrew Fisher David Mortlock Head of Audit David Merrett Director of Strategy and Risk 1 Appointed on 1 January 2014 2 The risk advisory committee delegates a number of responsibilities to the risk Resigned as a member on 1 January advisory group which comprises the executive directors, the Company Secretary 2014 but attends by invitation and General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer, the Head of Audit, and the Director of Strategy and Risk.
The risk advisory group considers the nature and magnitude of the risks facing the group, the acceptable risk tolerance, the likelihood of any risk materialising, the groups ability to mitigate any risk, and the costs of operating particular controls relative to the benefits obtained.
It also reviews the key risk registers prepared by the group and the divisional risk committees quarterly, challenging where appropriate.
A schedule of key risks, a summary of the group and divisional key risk registers and the ICAAP document isprovided to the risk advisory committee for review andapproval.
