362 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Increased illiquidity also adds to increases, subject to minimum crediting Prudentials operating results and financial uncertainty over the accessibility of rates.
Declines in spread from these condition and, accordingly, the trading price financial resources and may reduce products or other spread businesses of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned capital resources as valuations decline.
that Jackson conducts, and increases in below should not be regarded as a complete surrenders levels arising from interest rate Global financial markets are subject to and comprehensive statement of all rises, could have a material impact on its uncertainty and volatility created by a potential risks and uncertainties.
The businesses or results of operations.
variety of factors, including concerns over information given is as of the date of this Jackson also writes a significant amount sovereign debt, general slowing in world document, is not updated, and any of variable annuities that offer capital or growth from subdued or slowdown in forward-looking statements are made income protection guarantees.
The value demand and the timing and scale of subject to the reservations specified below of these guarantees is affected by market quantitative easing programmes of central under Forward Looking Statements.
factors including interest rates, equity levels, banks.
Upheavals in the financial markets Prudentials approaches to managing bond spreads and volatility.
There could be may affect general levels of economic risks are explained in the Group Chief Risk market circumstances where the derivatives activity, employment and customer Officers report on the risks facing our that Jackson enters into to hedge its market behaviour.
For example, insurers may business and our capital strength section risks may not fully cover its exposures under experience an elevated incidence of of this document.
The cost of the guarantees claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, that remain unhedged will also affect and some policyholders may choose to Risks relating to Prudentials business Prudentials results.
defer or stop paying insurance premiums.
Prudentials businesses are inherently Jackson hedges the guarantees on The demand for insurance products may subject to market fluctuations and its variable annuity book on an economic also be adversely affected.
If sustained, general economic conditions basis and, thus, accepts variability in its this environment is likely to have a negative Prudentials businesses are inherently accounting results in the short term in impact on the insurance sector over time subject to market fluctuations and general order to achieve the appropriate economic and may consequently have a negative economic conditions.
In particular, for Prudentials Group impact on Prudentials business and negative trends in international economic IFRS reporting, the measurement of the profitability.
New challenges related to and investment climates could adversely Jackson variable annuity guarantees market fluctuations and general economic affect Prudentials business and is typically less sensitive to market conditions may continue to emerge.
Since 2008 Prudential has movements than for the corresponding For some non-unit-linked investment operated against a challenging background hedging derivatives, which are held at products, in particular those written in of periods of significant volatility in global market value.
However, depending on some of the Groups Asian operations, it capital and equity markets, interest rates the level of hedging conducted regarding may not be possible to hold assets which and liquidity, and widespread economic a particular risk type, certain market will provide cash flows to match those uncertainty.
Government interest rates movements can drive volatility in the relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is also remain at or near historic lows in the economic results which may be less particularly true in those countries where US, the UK and some Asian countries in significant under IFRS reporting.
bond markets are not developed and in which Prudential operates.
These factors A significant part of the profit from certain markets where regulated surrender have, at times during this period, had a Prudentials UK insurance operations values are set with reference to the interest material adverse effect on Prudentials is related to bonuses for policyholders rate environment prevailing at the time of business and profitability.
declared on with-profits products, policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due In the future, the adverse effects of such which are broadly based on historical to the duration and uncertainty of the factors would be felt principally through and current rates of return on equity, liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient the following items: real estate and fixed income securities, assets of a suitable duration.
While this as well as Prudentials expectations of Investment impairments or reduced residual asset liability mismatch risk can future investment returns.
This profit investment returns, which could impair be managed, it cannot be eliminated.
could be lower in a sustained low Prudentials ability to write significant Where interest rates in these markets interest rate environment.
volumes of new business and would remain lower than interest rates used to have a negative impact on its assets calculate surrender values over a sustained Prudential is subject to the risk under management and profit: period, this could have an adverse impact of potential sovereign debt credit on Prudentials reported profit.
Higher credit defaults and wider credit deterioration owing to the amounts In the US, fluctuations in prevailing and liquidity spreads resulting in of sovereign debt obligations held interest rates can affect results from realised and unrealised credit losses: in its investment portfolio Jackson which has a significant spreadPrudential is subject to the risk of potential Failure of counterparties to transactions based business, with the majority of its sovereign debt credit deterioration on the with Prudential or, for derivative assets invested in fixed income securities.
amounts of sovereign debt obligations transactions adequate collateral not In particular, fixed annuities and stable held in its investment portfolio.
In recent being in place: value products written by Jackson expose years, rating agencies have downgraded Prudential to the risk that changes in Estimates of the value of financial the sovereign debt of some countries.
interest rates, which are not fully reflected instruments being difficult because in There is a risk of further downgrades.
in the interest rates credited to customers, certain illiquid or closed markets, Investing in sovereign debt creates will reduce spread.
The spread is the determining the value at which financial exposure to the direct or indirect difference between the rate of return instruments can be realised is highly consequences of political, social or Jackson is able to earn on the assets subjective.
Processes to ascertain such economic changes including changes in backing the policyholders liabilities values require substantial elements of governments, heads of states or monarchs and the amounts that are credited to judgement, assumptions and estimates in the countries in which the issuers are policyholders in the form of benefit which may change over time : and located and the creditworthiness of the Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 363 sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt subject to the risk of exchange rate Insurance Groups Directive IGD obligations involves risks not present in fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the require EU financial services groups debt obligations of corporate issuers.
In US and Asia, which represent a significant to demonstrate net aggregate surplus addition, the issuer of the debt or the proportion of operating profit based on capital in excess of solvency requirements governmental authorities that control the longer-term investment returns and at the group level in respect of repayment of the debt may be unable or shareholders funds, generally write shareholder-owned entities.
The test is a unwilling to repay principal or pay interest policies and invest in assets denominated continuous requirement, so that Prudential when due in accordance with the terms of in local currencies.
Although this practice needs to maintain a higher amount of such debt, and Prudential may have limited limits the effect of exchange rate regulatory capital at the group level than recourse to compel payment in the event of fluctuations on local operating results, otherwise necessary in respect of some of a default.
A sovereign debtors willingness it can lead to significant fluctuations in its individual businesses to accommodate, or ability to repay principal and to pay Prudentials consolidated financial for example, short-term movements in interest in a timely manner may be affected statements upon translation of results global foreign exchange rates, interest by, among other factors, its cash flow into pounds sterling.
This exposure is rates, deterioration in credit quality and situation, its relations with its central bank, not currently separately managed.
The EU is also developing a the extent of its foreign currency reserves, The currency exposure relating to the new prudential regulatory framework for the availability of sufficient foreign translation of reported earnings could insurance companies, referred to as exchange on the date a payment is due, the impact on financial reporting ratios such Solvency II.
The approach is based on the relative size of the debt service burden to as dividend cover, which is calculated concept of three pillars.
Pillar 1 consists of the economy as a whole, the sovereign as operating profit after tax on an IFRS the quantitative requirements, for debtors policy toward local and basis, divided by the current year interim example, the amount of capital an insurer international lenders, and the political dividend plus the proposed final dividend.
Pillar 2 sets out requirements constraints to which the sovereign debtor The impact of gains or losses on currency for the governance and risk management may be subject.
translations is recorded as a component of insurers, as well as for the effective Moreover, governments may use a of shareholders funds within other supervision of insurers.
Pillar 3 focuses on variety of techniques, such as intervention comprehensive income.
Consequently, disclosure and transparency requirements.
by their central banks or imposition of this could impact on Prudentials gearing The Solvency II Directive covers regulatory controls or taxes, to devalue ratios defined as debt over debt plus valuation, the treatment of insurance their currencies exchange rates, or may shareholders funds.
groups, the definition of capital and the adopt monetary and other policies overall level of capital requirements.
A key including to manage their debt burdens Prudential conducts its businesses aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment that have a similar effect, all of which subject to regulation and associated of risks and capital requirements are could adversely impact the value of an regulatory risks, including the effects intended to be aligned more closely with investment in sovereign debt even in the of changes in the laws, regulations, economic capital methodologies, and may absence of a technical default.
Periods policies and interpretations and any allow Prudential to make use of its internal of economic uncertainty may affect the accounting standards in the markets economic capital models, if approved by volatility of market prices of sovereign in which it operates the Prudential Regulation Authority debt to a greater extent than the volatility Changes in government policy, legislation PRA.
The Solvency II Directive was inherent in debt obligations of other types including tax or regulatory interpretation formally approved by the Economic and of issuers.
applying to companies in the financial Financial Affairs Council in November In addition, if a sovereign default or services and insurance industries in any of 2009 although its implementation was other such events described above were to the markets in which Prudential operates, delayed pending agreement on a directive occur, other financial institutions may also which in some circumstances may be known as Omnibus II which, once adopted, suffer losses or experience solvency or applied retrospectively, may adversely will amend certain aspects of the other concerns, and Prudential might face affect Prudentials product range, Solvency II Directive.
In November 2013, additional risks relating to any debt of such distribution channels, profitability, capital representatives from the European financial institutions held in its investment requirements and, consequently, reported Parliament, the European Commission and portfolio.
There is also risk that public results and financing requirements.
the Council of the European Union reached perceptions about the stability and Also, regulators in jurisdictions in which an agreement on the Omnibus II Directive, creditworthiness of financial institutions Prudential operates may change the level which is currently expected to be adopted and the financial sector generally might of capital required to be held by individual in early 2014.
As a result, Solvency II is be affected, as might counter party businesses or could introduce possible now expected to be implemented as of relationships between financial institutions.
changes in the regulatory framework for 1 January 2016, although the European If a sovereign were to default on its pension arrangements and policies, the Commission and the European Insurance obligations, or adopt policies that devalue regulation of selling practices and solvency and Occupational Pensions Authority or otherwise alter the currencies in which requirements.
Furthermore, as a result of EIOPA are continuing to develop the its obligations are denominated this could interventions by governments in response detailed rules that will complement the have a material adverse effect on to recent financial and global economic high-level principles of the Solvency II Prudentials financial condition and conditions, it is widely expected that there and Omnibus II Directives, which are not results of operations.
will continue to be a substantial increase in currently expected to be finalised until government regulation and supervision of mid-2015.
Further, the effective application Prudential is subject to the risk of the financial services industry, including of a number of key measures incorporated exchange rate fluctuations owing to the possibility of higher capital in the Omnibus II Directive, including the the geographical diversity of its requirements, restrictions on certain types provisions for third-country equivalence, businesses of transaction structure and enhanced is expected to be subject to supervisory Due to the geographical diversity of supervisory powers.
As a result there Prudentials businesses, Prudential is Current EU directives, including the EU is a risk that the effect of the measures 364 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors continued finally adopted could be adverse for proposals expected in the first half of Any changes or modification of IFRS Prudential, including potentially a 2014.
Prudential is monitoring the accounting policies may require a change significant increase in the capital required development of, and the potential impact in the future results or a retrospective to support its business and that Prudential of, the framework of policy measures and adjustment of reported results.
may be placed at a competitive engaging with the PRA on the implications disadvantage to other European and of this designation.
The IAIS currently The resolution of several issues non-European financial services groups.
expects to finalise the BCR and HLA affecting the financial services Currently there are also a number of proposals by November 2014 and the end industry could have a negative other global regulatory developments of 2015 respectively.
Implementation of impact on Prudentials reported which could impact the way in which the regime is likely to be phased in over a results or on its relations with Prudential is supervised in its many period of years with the BCR expected to current and potential customers jurisdictions.
These include the Doddbe introduced between 2015 and 2019.
Prudential is, and in the future may be, Frank Act in the US, the work of the The HLA requirement will apply from subject to legal and regulatory actions in Financial Stability Board FSB on Global January 2019 to the insurance groups the ordinary course of its business, both in Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs identified as G-SIIs in November 2017. the UK and internationally.
These actions and the Common Framework for the ComFrame is also being developed could involve a review of types of business Supervision of Internationally Active by the IAIS to provide common global sold in the past under acceptable market Insurance Groups ComFrame being requirements for the supervision of practices at the time, such as the developed by the International Association insurance groups.
The framework is requirement in the UK to provide redress of Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
designed to develop common principles to certain past purchasers of pension and The Dodd-Frank Act represents a and standards for group supervision and mortgage endowment policies, changes comprehensive overhaul of the financial so may increase the focus of regulators in to the tax regime affecting products and services industry within the United States some jurisdictions.
It is also expected to regulatory reviews on products sold and that, among other reforms to financial include some prescriptive requirements, industry practices, including, in the latter services entities, products and markets, including an Insurance Capital Standard case, lines of business it has closed.
may subject financial institutions ICS.
A revised draft ComFrame proposal Regulators are increasingly interested designated as systemically important was released for consultation in October in the approach that product providers use to heightened prudential and other 2013.
The IAIS will undertake a field testing to select third party distributors and to requirements intended to prevent or exercise from 2014 to 2018 to assess the monitor the appropriateness of sales made mitigate the impact of future disruptions impacts of the quantitative and qualitative by them.
In some cases, product providers in the US financial system.
The full impact requirements proposed under ComFrame.
can be held responsible for the deficiencies of the Dodd-Frank Act on Prudentials ComFrame is expected to be implemented of third party distributors.
businesses is not currently clear, as many in 2019.
In the US, federal and state regulators of its provisions have a delayed Various jurisdictions in which Prudential have focused on, and continue to devote effectiveness and or require rulemaking operates have created investor substantial attention to, the mutual fund, or other actions by various US regulators compensation schemes that require fixed index annuity and insurance product over the coming years.
mandatory contributions from market industries.
This focus includes new In July 2013, the FSB announced the participants in some instances in the event regulations in respect of the suitability of initial list of nine insurance groups that of a failure of a market participant.
As a sales of certain products such as alternative have been designated as G-SIIs.
This list major participant in the majority of its investments.
As a result of publicity relating included Prudential as well as a number of chosen markets, circumstances could to widespread perceptions of industry its competitors.
The designation as a arise where Prudential, along with other abuses, there have been numerous G-SII is likely to lead to additional policy companies, may be required to make regulatory inquiries and proposals for measures being applied to the designated such contributions.
Based on a policy framework The Groups accounts are prepared in In Asia, regulatory regimes are released by the IAIS concurrently with the accordance with current International developing at different speeds, driven by initial list, these additional policy measures Financial Reporting Standards IFRS a combination of global factors and local will include enhanced Group-wide applicable to the insurance industry.
There is a risk that new supervision.
This enhanced supervision is International Accounting Standards Board requirements are introduced that intended to commence immediately and IASB introduced a framework that it challenge current practices, or are will include the development by July 2014 described as Phase I, which permitted retrospectively applied to sales made of a Systemic Risk Management Plan insurers to continue to use the statutory prior to their introduction.
SRMP under supervisory oversight and basis of accounting for insurance assets implementation thereafter and, by the end and liabilities that existed in their Litigation, disputes and regulatory of 2014, a group Recovery and Resolution jurisdictions prior to January 2005. investigations may adversely affect Plan RRP and Liquidity Risk Management In July 2010, the IASB published its first Prudentials profitability and Plan LRMP.
The G-SII regime also Exposure Draft for its Phase II on insurance financial condition introduces two types of capital accounting, which would introduce Prudential is, and may be in the future, requirements, the first, a Basic Capital significant changes to the statutory subject to legal actions, disputes and Requirement BCR, designed to act as a reporting of insurance entities that prepare regulatory investigations in various minimum group capital requirement and accounts according to IFRS.
A revised contexts, including in the ordinary course the second, a higher loss absorption HLA Exposure Draft was issued in June 2013. of its insurance, investment management requirement for conducting non-traditional It remains uncertain whether the proposals and other business operations.
These legal insurance and non-insurance activities.
in the Exposure Draft will become the final actions, disputes and investigations may The IAIS released a consultation paper on IASB standard.
The timing of the changes relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses the BCR in December 2013 and Prudential taking effect is uncertain but not expected and operations that are specific to will participate in the field testing of the to be before 2018.
Prudential, or that are common to Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 365 companies that operate in Prudentials Jacksons competitors in the US Adverse experience in the markets.
Legal actions and disputes may include major stock and mutual insurance operational risks inherent in arise under contracts, regulations companies, mutual fund organisations, Prudentials business could have a including tax or from a course of conduct banks and other financial services negative impact on its results of taken by Prudential, and may be class companies such as AIG, AXA Financial operations actions.
Although Prudential believes that Inc. Hartford Life Inc. Prudential Financial, Operational risks are present in all of it has adequately provided in all material Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF.
Prudentials businesses, including the risk aspects for the costs of litigation and Prudential believes competition will of direct or indirect loss resulting from regulatory matters, no assurance can be intensify across all regions in response to inadequate or failed internal and external provided that such provisions are sufficient.
consumer demand, technological advances, processes, systems and human error or Given the large or indeterminate amounts the impact of consolidation, regulatory from external events.
Prudentials business of damages sometimes sought, other actions and other factors.
Prudentials ability is dependent on processing a large number sanctions that might be applicable and the to generate an appropriate return depends of transactions across numerous and inherent unpredictability of litigation and significantly upon its capacity to anticipate diverse products, and is subject to a disputes, it is possible that an adverse and respond appropriately to these number of different legal and regulatory outcome could, from time to time, have an competitive pressures.
Further, because of the long-term adverse effect on Prudentials reputation, nature of much of the Groups business, results of operations or cash flows.
Downgrades in Prudentials financial accurate records have to be maintained for strength and credit ratings could significant periods.
Prudentials businesses are significantly impact its competitive These factors, among others, result in conducted in highly competitive position and damage its relationships significant reliance on and require environments with developing with creditors or trading significant investment in IT, compliance demographic trends and continued counterparties and other operational systems, personnel profitability depends on Prudentials financial strength and credit and processes.
In addition, Prudential managements ability to respond to ratings, which are used by the market to outsources several operations, including a these pressures and trends measure its ability to meet policyholder significant part of its UK back office and The markets for financial services in the obligations, are an important factor customer facing functions as well as a UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, affecting public confidence in Prudentials number of IT functions, resulting in reliance with several factors affecting Prudentials products, and as a result its upon the operational processing ability to sell its products and continued competitiveness.
Downgrades in performance of its outsourcing partners.
profitability, including price and yields Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for Although Prudentials IT, compliance offered, financial strength and ratings, example, decreased profitability, increased and other operational systems and range of product lines and product quality, costs, increased indebtedness or other processes incorporate controls designed to brand strength and name recognition, concerns, could have an adverse effect on manage and mitigate the operational risks investment management performance, its ability to market products: retain current associated with its activities, there can be no historical bonus levels, developing policyholders: and on the Groups financial assurance that such controls will always be demographic trends and customer appetite flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates effective.
For example, although Prudential for certain savings products.
In some of its Prudential pays on its borrowings are has not experienced a material failure or markets, Prudential faces competitors that affected by its credit ratings, which are in breach in relation to its legacy and other IT are larger, have greater financial resources place to measure the Groups ability to systems and processes to date, it has been, or a greater market share, offer a broader meet its contractual obligations.
and likely will continue to be, subject to range of products or have higher bonus Prudentials long-term senior debt is computer viruses, attempts at unauthorised rates or claims paying ratios.
Further, rated as A2 by Moodys, A by Standard & access and cyber-security attacks.
heightened competition for talented and Poors and A by Fitch.
These ratings have a Prudentials legacy and other IT systems skilled employees and agents with local stable outlook.
and processes, as with operational systems experience, particularly in Asia, may limit Prudentials short-term debt is rated as and processes generally, may be Prudentials potential to grow its business P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by Standard & Poors susceptible to failure or breaches.
Such as quickly as planned.
events could, among other things, harm In Asia, the Groups principal The Prudential Assurance Company Prudentials ability to perform necessary competitors in the region are international Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa2 by business functions, result in the loss of financial companies, including global life Moodys, AA by Standard & Poors and AA confidential or proprietary data exposing insurers such as Allianz, AXA, AIA, and by Fitch.
These ratings have a stable outlook.
it to potential legal claims and regulatory Manulife and multinational asset managers Jacksons financial strength is rated AA sanctions and damage its relationships such as J. P. Morgan Asset Management, by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by with its business partners and customers.
Schroders, HSBC Global Asset Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These Similarly, any weakness in the Management and Franklin Templeton.
In a ratings have a stable outlook.
administration systems or actuarial number of markets, local companies have a In addition, changes in methodologies reserving processes could have an impact very significant market presence.
and criteria used by rating agencies could on its results of operations during the Within the UK, Prudentials principal result in downgrades that do not reflect effective period.
competitors include many of the major changes in the general economic conditions Prudential has not experienced or retail financial services companies and or Prudentials financial condition.
identified any operational risks in its fund management companies including, in systems or processes during 2013, which particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds have subsequently caused, or are expected Banking Group, Standard Life, Schroders, to cause, a significant negative impact on Invesco Perpetual and Fidelity.
366 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors continued Adverse experience relative to performance and impairments, unit cost Prudentials Articles of Association the assumptions used in pricing of administration and new business contain an exclusive jurisdiction products and reporting business acquisition expense.
provision results could significantly affect Under Prudentials Articles of Association, Prudentials results of operations As a holding company, Prudential is certain legal proceedings may only be Prudential needs to make assumptions dependent upon its subsidiaries to brought in the courts of England and about a number of factors in determining cover operating expenses and Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings the pricing of its products, setting reserves, dividend payments by a shareholder in its capacity as such for reporting its capital levels and the The Groups insurance and investment against Prudential and or its directors results of its long-term business operations.
management operations are generally and or its professional service providers.
For example, the assumption that conducted through direct and indirect It also applies to legal proceedings Prudential makes about future expected subsidiaries.
between Prudential and its directors levels of mortality is particularly relevant As a holding company, Prudentials and or Prudential and Prudentials for its UK annuity business.
In exchange principal sources of funds are remittances professional service providers that arise for a premium equal to the capital value of from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed in connection with legal proceedings their accumulated pension fund, pension funds, the shareholder transfer from between the shareholder and such annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed long-term funds and any amounts that may professional service provider.
This payment, usually monthly, for as long as be raised through the issuance of equity, provision could make it difficult for they are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous debt and commercial paper.
Certain of the US and other non-UK shareholders to research into longevity risk, using data subsidiaries are restricted by applicable enforce their shareholder rights.
from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
insurance, foreign exchange and tax laws, As part of its pension annuity pricing rules and regulations that can limit the Changes in tax legislation may result and reserving policy, Prudentials UK payment of dividends, which in some in adverse tax consequences business assumes that current rates of circumstances could limit the ability to Tax rules, including those relating to the mortality continuously improve over time pay dividends to shareholders or to make insurance industry, and their interpretation, at levels based on adjusted data and available funds held in certain subsidiaries may change, possibly with retrospective models from the Continuous Mortality to cover operating expenses of other effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Investigations CMI as published by the members of the Group.
Significant tax Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If disputes with tax authorities, and any mortality improvement rates significantly Prudential operates in a number change in the tax status of any member exceed the improvement assumed, of markets through joint ventures of the Group or in taxation legislation or Prudentials results of operations could and other arrangements with third its scope or interpretation could affect be adversely affected.
parties including in China and Prudentials financial condition and results A further example is the assumption India, involving certain risks that of operations.
that Prudential makes about future Prudential does not face with respect expected levels of the rates of early to its consolidated subsidiaries termination of products by its customers Prudential operates, and in certain markets persistency.
This is particularly relevant is required by local regulation to operate, to its lines of business other than its UK through joint ventures including in China annuity business.
For the Groups joint venture assumptions reflect recent past experience operations, management control is for each relevant line of business.
exercised jointly with the venture Any expected deterioration in future participants.
The level of control persistency is also reflected in the exercisable by the Group depends on the assumption.
If actual levels of future terms of the joint venture agreements, in persistency are significantly lower than particular, the allocation of control among, assumed that is, policy termination rates and continued co-operation between, the are significantly higher than assumed, the joint venture participants.
Prudential may Groups results of operations could be face financial, reputational and other adversely affected.
exposure including regulatory censure Another example is the impact of in the event that any of its joint venture epidemics and other effects that cause partners fails to meet its obligations under a large number of deaths.
Significant the joint venture, encounters financial influenza epidemics have occurred three difficulty, or fails to comply with local times in the last century, but the likelihood, regulation or international standards such timing, or the severity of future epidemics as those for the prevention of financial cannot be predicted.
In addition, a significant proportion external parties, including governmental of the Groups product distribution is and non-governmental organisations, in carried out through arrangements with combating the spread and severity of any third parties not controlled by Prudential epidemics could have a material impact and is dependent upon continuation of on the Groups loss experience.
A temporary or In common with other life insurers, the permanent disruption to these distribution profitability of the Groups businesses arrangements or material failure in controls depends on a mix of factors including such as those for the prevention of mortality and morbidity levels and trends, financial crime could adversely affect policy surrender rates, investment the results of operations of Prudential.
