Strategic report Risk management Rathbones continues to enhance its risk management Risk profile framework, which provides a structured and consistent approach to ensuring that all identified risks are owned by Thirty-nine Level 3 risks currently form the basis of the management, business units and, in some cases, specific groups risk register, each of which is classified under one of committees.
Risk management is supported by a dedicated the 15 Level 2 risk categories.
Rathbones approach to managing risk is underpinned by our understanding of our current risk exposures and how risks change over time.
The risk register Risk appetite and watch list are monitored closely by executive management, the group risk committee and the board.
Rathbones risk appetite is defined as the amount and type The risk profile and ratings for the majority of Level of risk the company is prepared to take or retain in the 2 risks have remained consistent during 2013.
The following pursuit of its strategy.
Our appetite articulates some table summarises the changes.
overarching parameters for all of Rathbones, and specific Risk change Description measures for each Level 2 risk category see below.
During Ref Risk in 2013 of change the year Rathbones operated within its stated risk appetite F Performance Insurance risks arising from and the board remains committed to mitigating risk to and advice Jersey trust legal proceedings notes 2.4 and 32 to the within levels that are consistent with a relatively low overall consolidated financial statements.
The board continues to recognise that the business is susceptible to market fluctuations and will bear G Regulatory Higher FSCS levies and losses from financial and operational risks from time-to-time volume of regulation impacting the business.
either as reductions in income, losses or increases in operating costs.
K Data integrity Increased financial impact and and security consequences of potential cyber attacks, fraud and external data loss events.
Risk assessment Rathbones reviews and monitors risk exposures closely, The board believes that the principal risks and considering the potential impact and any management uncertainties facing the group have been identified within actions required to mitigate the impact of emerging issues the following information.
Our overall risk profile and ways and future events.
The group risk register is the principal in which we mitigate risks are analysed below.
These listings tool for monitoring risks which are classified in a strict are not exhaustive and risk mitigators exclude the oversight hierarchy.
The highest level Level 1 identifies risks as either provided by board committees.
The next level Level 2 contains 15 risk categories, which are listed below.
Detailed risks Level 3 are a subset of Level 2 risks and are captured and maintained across the company within separate business unit risk registers.
A watch list is maintained to record any emerging issues and future events which will or could have the potential to impact Rathbones risk profile and may therefore require active management, process changes or systems development.
The watch list is regularly reviewed and monitored by executive management and governance committees.
Risk scoring During 2013, Rathbones continued to assess the risks using a 1 4 scoring system with each Level 3 risk rated by assessing the likelihood of its occurrence in a five year period and the associated impact.
A residual risk score is then derived by taking into account an assessment of the internal control environment or insurance mitigation.
14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Risk management Financial risks Ref Level 2 risk Definition Key mitigators A Credit The risk that one or more Banking committee oversight.
counterparties fail to fulfil Counterparty limits and credit reviews.
contractual obligations, including Treasury policy and procedures manual.
Annual Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
B Liquidity The risk of having insufficient Banking committee oversight.
financial resources to meet obligations Daily reconciliations and reporting to senior management.
as they fall due, or that secure Cash flow forecasting.
access to such resources would Contingency funding plan.
Annual Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process including stress testing.
C Market The risk that earnings or capital will Banking committee oversight.
be adversely affected by changes in Documented policies and procedures.
the level or volatility of interest rates, Daily monitoring of interest rates, exchange rates and maturity mismatch.
foreign currency exchange rates Robust application of policy and investment limits.
D Pension The risk that funding our defined Management and trustee oversight.
benefit pension schemes materially Monthly valuation estimates.
affects dividends, reserves and capital.
Further detailed discussion of the groups exposures to financial risks is included in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Business risks Ref Level 2 risk Definition Key mitigators E Business The risk that the business model does Board and executive oversight.
model not respond in an optimal manner to A documented strategy.
changing market conditions such that Annual business targets, subject to regular review and challenge.
sustainable growth, market share or Regular reviews of pricing structure.
Continued investment in marketing, the investment process and service standards.
F Performance The risk that clients receive Investment governance and structured committee oversight, and advice inappropriate financial, trust or specifically strategic asset allocation and stock selection.
investment advice, inadequate Management oversight and active client service, performance measurement documentation or unsuitable and attribution analysis.
portfolios resulting in a failure to Weekly investment management meetings.
meet clients investment and or Monthly investment manager peer reviews.
Consistent and competitive remuneration schemes.
G Regulatory The risk that the introduction of new Active involvement with representative industry bodies.
regulation or changes to interpretation Compliance monitoring and oversight of industry and regulatory developments.
or enforcement of existing regulation, Close contact with the regulators.
or imposition of levies, materially Documented policy and procedures.
affects the business model, our services, cost levels or operations.
H Reputational The risk of reputational damage Board and executive oversight with a strong compliance culture.
from financial and non-financial Investment in staff training and development.
events or failing to meet Proactive communications with shareholders investor relations.
Investment process, management and performance monitoring.
Strong values and approach to governance.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 15 Strategic report Risk management Operational risks Ref Level 2 risk Definition Key mitigators I Business The risk that the planning or Project and IT committees.
change implementation of change is Dedicated project office function.
ineffective or fails to deliver Documented business plans and IT strategy.
Two-stage assessment, challenge and approval of project plans.
Documented project and change procedures.
J Business The risk that an internal or external Group business continuity committee oversight.
continuity event results in either failure or Documented crisis incident management and disaster recovery plans.
detriment to core business processes Regular disaster recovery testing.
Continuous monitoring of IT systems availability.
K Data integrity The risk of a lack of integrity of, Data security committee oversight.
and security inappropriate access to, or Data protection policy and procedures.
disclosure of, clientor companySystem access controls and encryption.
Penetration testing and multi-layer network security.
Training and employee awareness programmes.
Office and physical security within all locations.
L Legal and The risk of remediation, censure, Executive oversight.
compliance fines or legal action as a result of a Retained specialist legal advisers.
failure to identify or inability to Compliance department.
comply with regulatory or legislative Data protection policy and compliance monitoring.
requirements or inadequate or Documented policies and procedures.
M Outsourcing The risk of one or more third parties Executive oversight.
failing to provide or perform Active relationship management, including regular service review meetings.
outsourced services to standards Service level agreements and monitoring of key performance indicators.
expected by the group, impacting Compliance monitoring.
the ability to deliver core services.
N People The risk of loss of key staff, lack Executive oversight.
of skilled resources and inappropriate Succession and contingency planning.
Transparent, consistent and competitive remuneration schemes.
Investment in staff training and development.
Contractual clauses with restrictive covenants.
O Processing The risk that the design or execution Authorisation limits and management oversight.
of client financial settlement Dealing limits and supporting system controls.
transaction processes including Active investment in automated processes.
dealing activity are inadequate or fail Counter review four-eyes processes.
to deliver an appropriate level of Segregation of duties.
service and protection to client or Documented procedures.
16 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Our performance 18 Rathbones performance 21 Segmental review 29 Financial position 32 Liquidity and cash flows 33 Corporate responsibility report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 17
