Risk overview 29 Financial strength and resilience are at the heart of our Strategic Plan.
The issues during 2013, notably in relation to Risk overview loan:deposit ratio continued to improve and PPI, Interest Rate Hedging Products and was 94% at the end of the year.
mortgage-backed and other securities litigation.
During the year, the Group focused Loan impairment charges were 8.4 billion on embedding good conduct at the heart during 2013 of which 4.5 billion related to of its business, working to complete the Key themes of 2013 the creation of RCR.
Underlying impairment development of its conduct risk framework Safety and soundness losses fell by 1.4 billion and provisions and promoting staff understanding of The Group continued to pursue its safety and coverage of risk elements in lending increased conduct issues.
It also worked to enhance soundness agenda during 2013, with Nonto 64%, up from 52% a year ago.
The Group its assessment of operational risk to identify Cores assets falling to 28 billion and Markets continued to reduce risk concentrations, important vulnerabilities.
repositioning its business, both resulting in notably in commercial real estate.
Exposure to risk reduction and lower RWAs.
eurozone periphery countries also continued Strategic review to fall, down by 11% to 53 billion at the end of The Group launched a strategic review in Whilst the continued deleveraging led to a the year.
Of this, 70% related to Ireland.
The the fourth quarter of 2013 to reshape the significant reduction in RWAs, this was more Group still has significant credit risk exposures business to deliver superior customer service.
than offset by the impact of the regulatory and in absolute terms with credit risk RWAs at 313 This involved a wide-ranging review of core redress provisions and increased impairment billion, following a 16% reduction in the year.
activities, resulting in the formulation of a losses reflecting the establishment of RCR.
plan to address the business challenges of Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio improved over The Groups exposure to market risk continued the next five years.
While the Group believes the year, increasing from 10.3% to 10.9%.
The to fall, with average trading VaR declining to the resulting strategy is appropriate, risks fully loaded Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 79 million from 97 million.
Market risk RWAs remain: the strategy may prove inadequate ratio also improved in the year to 8.6%.
at 30 billion are now less than half their end or the Group may be unable to execute 2010 level of 80 billion.
Its successful execution, The Groups liquidity position continued to despite increasing regulatory demands and strengthen and at the end of the year, the Conduct risk is one of the most significant scrutiny as well as a challenging economic liquidity portfolio of 146 billion was more issues facing the bank, and the Group environment, is key to the future success of than four times greater than its short-term continued to suffer from legacy conduct the Group.
30 To deliver its capital plan, RBS has formed Conduct, regulatory and legal risks Political risks Capital Resolution Group CRG, which Increased conduct costs and reputational RBSG and the Royal Bank, its principal comprises four pillars: exiting the assets in damage arising from a failure to achieve operating subsidiary, are both RCR, delivering the IPOs of both Citizens fair customer outcomes.
In order to address headquartered and incorporated in Financial Group and Williams & Glyn, and this risk, during the year RBS continued Scotland.
The Scottish Government is optimising the banks group-wide shipping to embed good conduct at the heart of holding a referendum in September 2014 business.
RCR was set up from 1 January the business to ensure fair outcomes for on the question of Scottish independence 2014 and will manage a pool of funded assets customers.
Although the outcome of 29 billion with particularly high capital Increased costs and reputational damage such referendum is uncertain, subject to intensity or potentially volatile outcomes in arising from a failure to demonstrate any mitigating factors, the uncertainties stressed environments, aiming to accelerate compliance with existing regulatory resulting from an affirmative vote in the run-down of these exposures to free up requirements regarding conduct, favour of independence would be likely capital for the Group.
particularly with respect to mis-selling.
to significantly impact the Groups credit Although more work needs to be done to ratings and could also impact the fiscal, The Group continues to target a fully loaded mitigate this risk, RBS has simplified some monetary, legal and regulatory landscape Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of products and stopped offering others.
to which the Group is subject.
approximately 11% by the end of 2015 Where appropriate, it has compensated Were Scotland to become independent, it and 12% or above by the end of 2016.
The purchasers of some products and services, may also affect Scotlands status in the EU.
timely run-down of RCR and the successful such as payment protection insurance and The occurrence of any of the impacts above divestment of Citizens Financial Group, in certain interest rate hedging products.
could significantly impact the Groups costs particular, are cornerstones of this capital Losses or reputational damage arising from and would have a material adverse effect on strategy.
RBS defends claims against it to the Groups business, financial condition, the best of its ability and co-operates fully results of operations and prospects.
Top and emerging risk scenarios with various governmental and regulatory RBS identifies and monitors its top and authorities.
The integral role of risk management emerging risk scenarios.
A number attracted Risk management is essential to making RBS particular attention from senior management Risks related to the Groups operations safe and sustainable, and is an activity during 2013 which are discussed below.
Increased losses arising from cyber performed throughout all of RBS operations.
The Group has participated in an A strong culture of risk management and For further information on these and other industry-wide cyber attack simulation.
It has control will provide the foundation for improving risks, see pages 179 to 181. also initiated a program to improve controls performance and deliver future success.
over user access, taken steps to rationalise Macroeconomic risks its websites, put anti-virus protection in A more detailed discussion of developments Increased impairments arising from defaults place and educated staff on information in 2013 can be found in the Risk and balance in sectors to which RBS has concentrated protection.
sheet management section on pages 187 to exposures, particularly commercial real Increased losses arising from the failure 191. estate and shipping.
Optimisation of of information technology systems.
RBS the Groups shipping and a significant has launched a major program to improve For information on how we manage proportion of commercial real estate resilience, enhanced back-up systems Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE risks, portfolios is part of CRG strategy.
and created a shadow bank capable of please see our Sustainability report, available Increased impairments arising from a more providing basic services in the event of need.
Increased costs arising from a failure to RBS developed business plans to take into execute successfully major projects.
RBS account the possibility of slow economic is working to implement change in line growth and implemented strategies, such with its plans while assessing the risks to as cost reductions, to reduce its earnings implementation and taking steps to mitigate vulnerability.
An increase in RBS obligations to Increased costs due to an inability to support pension schemes.
The trustee is recruit or retain suitable staff.
RBS has responsible for the investment of the main communicated expected changes in its schemes assets, which are held separately organisational structure to members of staff, from the assets of RBS.
implementing plans aimed at minimising unexpected staff losses.
For further information - 174 364 see pages
