32 RISK MANAGEMENT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT THE FUTURE SUCCESS OF THE GROUP IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR CONSERVATIVE RISK PROFILE AND CLEAR RISK APPETITE.
RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH Principles We take a broad view of the scope of risk Simple objectives management which is taken to include the Create value for all stakeholders risk of underperformance as well as adverse Focus on general insurance in our events and the failure of processes.
This selected markets approach is reflected in our risk appetite statement and key risk indicators which Commitment to sustainable, profitable cover all aspects of our strategic objectives.
The risk appetite statement is updated annually in line with the strategic review.
Clear risk appetite Our risk management system is defined in Underwriting and operating excellence a comprehensive suite of risk management Strong control environment policies, supported by detailed procedures.
Tight financial management A central task of the risk management Protecting and managing the Groups function is to monitor adherence to these reputation.
The Board is closely involved in risk Robust governance, control and reporting management via the Board Risk Committee Comprehensive policies, procedures which meets quarterly.
The quarterly risk and controls reports monitor the status of all risks and will Clear delegation of authorities form an integral part of our ORSA process.
Robust lines of defence Regular and relevant reporting and assurance processes.
Strong culture Board set tone from the top of open communication and engagement Putting the customer at the centre of what we do High quality and engaged staff.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 33 STRATEGIC RISK PROFILE OUR RISK MANAGEMENT IN PRACTICE Rigorous review of RSAs Imposition Reinsurance Low capital planning process: of fungibility failure generation The Group and regional Risk functions restrictions subjected the Operational Planning process to significant independent Adverse financial markets challenge, especially given the Groups Misaligned Systemic low yields reduced capital strength and the strategy with process Misaligned earnings importance of aligning strategic decisions failure reward expectations with appropriate earnings expectations.
structure This involved early and continual IT age and engagement, objective analysis both complexity Misaligned top-down and portfolio level bottom-up, limits agility culture trend and peer comparisons, and Product and brand cross-checking with other risk inputs.
range The result is increased confidence given obsolescence to the Board in the robustness of the revised Plans.
Technical staff Monitoring capital: retention and development The Risk function and Board Risk Committee devoted significant time to capital during 2013, developing and approving an enhanced risk appetite to set out more consistently and explicitly the target range and buffers for each principal capital measure.
This was calibrated against standard stress tests, reputational risk assessment and model risks.
The Committee oversaw a reduction in risk appetite during the year LIKELIHOOD low to high to reflect the reducing capital buffers: equity exposures were reduced, Our strategic risk profile is our There is evidence that regulators may, additional reinsurance protection was purchased, M&A activity was halted and forward-looking assessment of the principal in the light of the introduction of Solvency II, risks to delivering our strategy.
Towards the seek to enforce greater restrictions on capital action plans were launched.
end of 2013 we launched our business the fungibility of capital, in other words, review, and we are adjusting our strategy: whether the capital we hold across our as a result, as in any time of change, a key businesses is accessible to support the risk for us to manage is the alignment of our risk profile over appropriate time-frames.
strategy, execution and impact on financial As an internationally diversified group, performance with the expectations of our we continue to monitor this risk carefully shareholders.
As part of the management in dialogue with our regulators, and to of this risk, the Risk function conducted an manage the internal capital flows between independent, end-to-end challenge of our our entities effectively.
business planning process which supports its robustness and our confidence in the future.
The interrelated risks of adverse financial markets including low yields and low capital generation remained the greatest strategic risks during 2013.
We have enhanced our capital risk appetite and capital strategy as the basis for ranking the options for improving capital strength and returns.
In addition, we made targeted reductions in our risk appetite and risk profile during 2013.
IMPACT low to high 34 RISK MANAGEMENT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Change in Risk Description and impact How we manage likelihood in year Low capital Insufficient capital generation over A ccelerated delivery of UK strategy generation medium-term to support dividend and D elivery of other regions operational plans corporate activity M &A moratorium and additional reinsurance protection A LM and cashflow risk management C apital strategy project to rank options Adverse Impact of negative long-term macroGeographic diversification financial economic trends, financial market H igh quality, low risk investment strategy markets volatility and or persistently adverse and portfolio yield environment T actical actions to mitigate reduction in yields D efensive positioning to Eurozone Imposition of Limited fungibility of capital following R igorous legal entity solvency management fungibility tighter regulatory measures I nternal dividend policy restrictions Regulatory dialogue IT age and IT stability or agility limitations impair I T Change stack oversight to track delivery of project and complexity service levels or delivery of strategic benefits limits agility change due to cost and management D evelopment and funding of dedicated e-business capability capacity.
Constraints include risk of N ew Group CIO with remit to develop long-term strategic disruption, age and complexity of approach legacy estate and competing priorities I T Risk framework developed to improve oversight and governance Misaligned Failure to align strategy, execution R obust strategic and operational planning processes strategy and and financial performance with D elivery of operational plans earnings shareholder expectations R obust management of underperforming businesses expectations M anagement of corporate governance requirements I nvestor and media relations Systemic Systemic failure in pricing, underwriting G ranular MI on rating and claims trends process and claims processes U nderwriting strategy statements, licence and controls failure R efined portfolio classification and pricing tools Q uarterly Business Reviews and BRC governance A ccumulation management and large loss review actions Technical staff Failure to attract and retain key staff for Talent boards and Engagement programme retention and specialist technical roles Review of remuneration system development Robust succession planning Product range Failure to develop and distribute G roup Architecture and IS Strategy obsolescence appropriate and or innovative E-enablement initiatives products to existing new Cu stomer Engagement programme customers and new channels Reinsurance Failure of reinsurance programme to B oard, Exco and BRC governance failure deliver planned benefits through e. g. R einsurance recovery processes counterparty failure, operational error G roup-wide reinsurance placement management or failed recovery processes R einsurance Security controls and processes Misaligned Failure to create a culture and brand D evelop articulation of desired culture culture and that supports Group strategy and will D esign indicators to assess cultural risks and enable audit brand attract and retain diverse individuals in G lobal Diversity and Inclusion D&I programme underway an environment that can harness their P eople and Leader Expectations in development for Brand refresh unique contributions Misaligned Failure of reward systems to align with R emuneration committee governance reward corporate aspirations and external R eview of remuneration system structure stakeholder expectations I nvestor and media relations RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 35 EMERGING RISKS AND GROUP STRATEGY We keep emerging risks under regular review and assess their impact on our strategy.
During 2013, we identified the following clusters of emerging risk and incorporated them as key drivers into our group strategy process.
1 Globalisation and R ise of China India new market leaders and capital flows and international trade to fuel their growth economic rebalancing N ext billion consumers emerging in emerging markets as they build their middle class R isk of developed markets stagnating or declining e. g. caused by Eurozone break up U S resurgence and path to energy independence e. g. driven by fracking C hina hard landing or soft landing 2 New global security F inancial volatility caused by increasingly interconnected worlds, too-big-to-fail industries and increasing threats competition for resources P olitical volatility including terrorist threats, Middle East conflict and the Arab Spring spreading to other emerging markets S ocial volatility caused by high youth unemployment, gender imbalance in the developing world, etc.
I ncrease in environmental disasters e. g. droughts, hurricanes, etc.
3 The digital society P ricing transparency by aggregators spreading to other producers E xpansion of e-commerce competitors into all areas of commerce I ncreased availability of consumer data: Human genome project, Telematics, etc S ocial media and increased use of mobile smart devices fuelling access to instant information R ise of radio-frequency identification RFID and sensor networks enabling tracking, data gathering, etc.
4 Changing social contract G reater need for sales price transparency between business L imitation of product pricing e. g. review of gender biased pricing in the EU and banning of high government cost products E merging markets regulation converging to western norms C ontinued uncertainty around Solvency II Prudential regulation I ncreased backlash against business driven by compensation culture and tax avoidance scandals 5 Environmental change E nvironmental risks including extreme weather events and consequent higher attritional losses and responses to it A dverse government intervention in response e. g. mandatory flood insurance at below cost prices G overnment prevention responses e. g. renewable investment, carbon tax, etc.
E nergy and water scarcity prompting alternative energy sources, substitute materials and sustainable forms of transportation e. g. fuel cell, hybrid, electric, rail 6 Social change, A geing population in need for more health and pension related insurance products fragmentation and I ncreased ethnic diversity further segmentation: Polar lifestyles, obesity vs fitness better targeting polarisation S hifts in mindset of workers Contentment vs striving O utsourcing off-shoring developments in light of productivity performance focus R &D innovation imperative driving war for talent requiring new organisational structures DISTRIBUTION OF QUANTIFIABLE RISKS Within our defined-benefit pension ECONOMIC CAPITAL BY TYPE OF RISK Our internal model provides a quantification schemes we have progressively reduced risk A Insurance Risk of the total amount of risk borne by the over a number of years through a succession B Investment Risk Group, expressed as the amount of capital of significant fide-risking actions: however, C Operational Risk required to enable it to meet all liabilities to due to the large size of the schemes relative D Pension Risk a confidence level consistent with the to the business, they still present a material Groups target A rating.
exposure, currently exacerbated by the A 67% D By analysing the cashflows in our model, economic environment producing a 9% we can assess the extent to which the prolonged period of low real-yields.
C 6% overall level of risk is attributable to broad categories of risk.
Consistent with our strategy and appetite, the majority of the Groups risks relate to insurance, comprising higher than anticipated underwriting losses, net catastrophe losses and reserve deterioration.
B Our conservative investment strategy 19% means that investment risk forms a relatively small proportion of our overall risk compared with the industry.
