Key risks and mitigations Integrity and appropriate conduct The Chief Executive and the GMC review the key risks facing the Group regularly are integral to Schroders culture as the principal executive committee with responsibility for the monitoring and and approach to risk management.
reporting of risk and controls.
These include reputational, market, investment performance and liquidity risks, credit risks, operational risks including legal, regulatory and compliance, people and conduct risk, and emerging risks.
This section explains how we control and manage the risks in our business.
The executive oversight of risk is It outlines key risks, how we mitigate delegated by the Chief Executive to the them and our assessment of their Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial potential impact on our business in Officer has responsibility for the risk and the context of the current economic control framework of the Group and the and political environment.
independent monitoring and reporting of risks and controls.
Managing risk The Board is accountable for risk and the The Chief Financial Officer is supported oversight of the risk management process.
by the Group Head of Risk and chairs Our Legal team works to analyse It considers the most significant risks the Group Risk Committee, which meets the obligations we assume.
facing the Group and uses quantitative 10 times a year, and more frequently if exposure measures, such as stress required, and is attended by the heads of tests, where appropriate.
Non-executive the control functions, the Chief Operating oversight of the risk management process Officer, the Global Head of Equities and is exercised through the Audit and Risk senior managers from Distribution.
The Committee with respect to standards Group Risk Committee supports the of integrity, financial reporting, risk Chief Financial Officer and the GMC in management and internal control.
It reviews and monitors the adequacy It is the responsibility of all employees to and effectiveness of the Groups risk uphold the control culture of Schroders management framework, including and we embed risk management within relevant policies and limits.
Members of the Group reviews trends and exceptions in the Management Committee GMC have most significant risk exposures.
There risk management responsibility for their is also a dedicated Wealth Management respective business areas and we expect Risk Committee, which reports into the individual behaviours to mirror the culture Group Risk Committee.
and core values of the firm.
Lines of defence Overview 4th Line: External independent assurance Three lines of defence 3rd Line: Internal independent assurance Group Group Audit 2nd Line: Control and oversight functions Risk Management and Risk Committee Committee Committee 1st Line: Business operations and support 34 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review 2013 developments During the year, we reviewed and re-emphasised the role of the GMC as the principal executive committee with responsibility for risk as well as the responsibility of line management in embedding appropriate risk management throughout the firm.
We continued to devote resources to the management of Our Compliance teams are risks associated with the external market focused increasingly on Lines of defence environment, including instability in the conduct risk, embedding a The first line of defence against unexpected Eurozone although this risk decreased culture of treating clients fairly throughout the Group.
outcomes lies with line managers, whether as the year progressed.
they are in Investment, Distribution, Wealth Management or Infrastructure.
The senior Investment risk was another area of focus, management team takes the lead role with reflecting the growth in funds and assets respect to implementing and maintaining under management.
We introduced a appropriate controls across the business new operational risk system, Archer, to ensure the quality standards expected to support a revised, firm-wide Risk by clients and regulators.
Line management and Control Assessment approach.
is supplemented by oversight functions, such as Group Risk, Finance, Compliance The focus on Wealth Managementand Legal, which provide the second specific risks continued in 2013, line of defence.
The Compliance particularly investment risk and the risks monitoring programme reviews the associated with the integration of the effective operation of our processes acquisition of Cazenove Capital.
The risks to meet regulatory requirements.
associated with the integration of STW and our relationship with Secquaero were Group Internal Audit provides retrospective, also reviewed regularly.
The implications independent assurance over the operation of business integration on our IT and of controls and is the third line of defence Operations functions was considered, against unexpected outcomes.
The internal with regular assessments of project audit programme includes reviews of the prioritisation and resource allocation.
risk management process and advice and recommendations to improve the control Updates were made to a number of environment.
External assurance can Group policies, including conflicts of provide a fourth line of defence.
interest and anti-bribery and corruption to reflect new regulatory guidance in Schroders also has a comprehensive these areas: institutional client take-on insurance programme, providing procedures: investment model governance: substantial financial assurance.
and the acceptance of contingent liabilities and other non-standard commitments.
We reviewed our approach to conduct risk recognising its importance to our clients and regulators.
Key risks The following tables summarise key business risks currently considered most relevant to our business.
See notes 20 and 21 to the accounts for further information on financial instrument risk management and derivative contracts.
Wealth Management-specific risks have been a focus during 2013.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Key risks and mitigations continued Reputational risk In the asset management industry, reputational risk can arise from any of the key risks outlined below.
Reputation risk relates to the Schroders brand, as well as ethics, trust, relationships with stakeholders, conduct and the overall culture and values of our firm.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Reputational risk This can arise from financial or Integrity, appropriate conduct and a principled approach to regulatory operational events or failing to meet compliance, including treating customers fairly, are integral to Schroders culture.
We engage in proactive communications with all stakeholders and monitor media coverage to understand how our reputation is perceived.
Market, investment performance and liquidity risks We face risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments both as principal and agent.
We have principal exposure in our Wealth Management business, where we hold bank paper and government securities: and through the Groups investment capital, where we hold cash and certificates of deposits, government and corporate bonds, equities, funds of hedge funds, property, private equity and catastrophe bonds.
We also have principal exposure in the Life Company in Asset Management which holds investments in funds but this exposure is transferred to third-party investors in the Life Companys product and therefore is comparable to the agency exposure in both segments in respect of the assets we manage on behalf of our clients.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Market risk Market risk arises from market Our , broad product range enables us to provide movements, which can cause a fall clients with solutions tailored to a variety of market conditions and serves to in the value of principal investments diversify individual market dependencies.
and a decline in the value of assets The Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly under management.
reviews all holdings within Group capital.
All principal investments are managed Operational capital, net fee income within approved limits.
The Groups seed capital investments are usually hedged and expenses related to the Groups in respect of market risk and currency risk.
overseas subsidiaries are denominated Income and expenses are, where possible, matched in the currency of in local currencies and are therefore individual subsidiaries.
We also use forward foreign exchange contracts subject to exchange rate risk.
to mitigate transactional and investment exposure to currency movements.
In Wealth Management, a Wealth Management Risk Committee has been established to monitor and manage market risk at a local level.
Investment The management of investment The Schroder Investment Risk Framework provides review and challenge of performance performance risk is a core skill of the investment risks across each of the asset classes managed by the Group.
This is the risk that portfolios will Investment Risk team is independent of the Investment function.
We adhere to not meet their investment objectives.
clearly-defined investment processes which seek to meet investment targets This can adversely affect levels of net within stated risk parameters.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and new business.
risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and management on a regular basis, as well as by Pricing and Valuation Committees, Asset Class Risk In Wealth Management, this also Commitees and the GMC, allowing issues to be identified and mitigated.
includes the risk of inappropriate advice and unsuitable investment portfolios in Recognising that products will not outperform all of the time, we offer a relation to clients investment objectives.
diversified product set which reduces the concentration of risk on the performance of any one fund or asset class.
Investment performance is monitored as part of our investment risk management process.
A dedicated Investment Risk Committee for Wealth Management was established in 2013, following the acquisition of Cazenove Capital and the growth of our Wealth Management business.
36 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review Market, investment performance and liquidity risks continued Key risk Description How we manage risk Liquidity risk Liquidity risk, in relation to client To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to match, where possible, the portfolios, is the risk that funds cannot liquidity of a portfolios underlying investments with the anticipated redemption be generated to meet redemptions or requirements.
We actively monitor markets for indicators of a decline in liquidity.
other obligations as they arise.
Liquidity We also review products and portfolios to identify capacity constraints.
issues can arise as a result of market Each of our regulated subsidiaries, and the Group as a whole, meet regulatory conditions or through holdings of capital requirements.
In addition, we maintain sufficient liquidity for our inherently illiquid investments.
Liquidity anticipated needs, taking account of the risks we face.
risk also applies to the Groups own financial obligations.
In Wealth Management in London, we operate an Individual Liquidity Analysis Adequacy ILAA process.
Credit risk We face risks from the default of counterparties to our principal financial transactions.
Our clients also face counterparty risk in relation to the financial transactions in their portfolios and funds.
Wealth Management additionally faces principal credit risk on its lending activities.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Credit risk We face credit risk as a result In order to manage this risk we monitor counterparty creditworthiness with limits of counterparty exposure.
expressed in terms of value and term to maturity.
The Group sets overall limits in respect of both principal and agency counterparty risk.
Where possible, we seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
Counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following changes to their financial condition.
We monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
We face credit risk through Wealth In Wealth Management, we mitigate credit risk, where possible, through Management lending activities.
collateralisation in the form of cash, portfolio investments or property.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against the performance of the collateral.
Operational risk Operational risk arises in our investment management activities, distribution activities, product development and the operation of our IT and operations infrastructure.
Line management is responsible for operational risk controls.
We also face integration risk when consolidating acquired businesses into the Group.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Process risk Operational risk could arise from Business processes are reviewed to identify suitable operational controls the failure of significant business to mitigate potential risks.
processes undertaken by Schroders, including for example mandate compliance, client suitability checks and asset pricing.
Third-party service We have a number of outsourced Before entering into outsourcing arrangements, we undertake due diligence provider risk supplier relationships as part of our on third-party suppliers.
We then maintain a programme of regular assessment business model, particularly in respect against agreed service levels.
of fund administration and transfer agency services.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risk continued Key risk Description How we manage risk Integration risk Integration risk arises on the acquisition Risk management considerations are evaluated prior to any acquisition and of a business that may have a significant an integration plan, including risk management, as well as steps to address impact on the risk exposure and risk transaction-specific risks, is developed and implemented post-acquisition.
management strategies of the The GMC, supported by the Group Risk Committee, monitors integration combined business.
It also includes transaction-specific Group Risk considers the risk resources available to support newly acquired risks, such as the impact of competing businesses and appropriate risk resource with experience of the relevant demands on IT and Operations from business area is identified and developed.
system integration, loss of clients or key employees.
Distribution risk Distribution risk arises from The broad range of distribution channels mitigates against a key dependency concentration across different on any sales channel.
No single client accounts for more than two per cent.
We have three broad client groups: institutional clients, often advised by consultants: retail clients, intermediated through banks, brokers and independent advisers: and private clients and charities.
Product risk Product risk arises from product We have a dedicated Product Development team and a product approval and complexity and the risk that these review procedure.
We consider carefully the suitability of products for clients and, products either do not meet their where possible, monitor the way products are sold.
performance objectives or are unsuitable for certain clients.
Product risk can also arise from We monitor potential capacity constraints and may mitigate them by hard capacity constraints where the or soft closing products to new investment in certain circumstances.
size of assets under management in a particular asset class or strategy makes it more difficult to trade efficiently in the market.
Technology and The risks that our technology systems The UK Government and Bank of England have highlighted cybercrime as an security risk and support are inadequate or fail issue across the financial and broader commercial sectors and we are engaging to adapt to changing requirements: in a Bank of England exercise to address our response to potential threats.
A that our systems are vulnerable to Head of Information Security has joined the Group and we have updated the third-party penetration: and that Groups insurance cover for cybercrime to include more explicit coverage in data is held insecurely.
We rely on technology and qualified We regularly review the progress of major information technology projects and professionals to maintain our new systems are subject to rigorous testing before approval.
Our technology is infrastructure, and we invest in partly outsourced and our platform uses well-established, tested technology from information technology projects outsource partners which we assess to be financially stable and able to provide with long lead times.
the required level of service.
Outsource partners are an important part of our business model and we work with them to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering into new arrangements and performance is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across the business globally.
38 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review Operational risk continued Key risk Description How we manage risk People risk Talented people may be targeted To mitigate people risks, we have competitive remuneration and retention plans, by competitors seeking to build with appropriate deferred benefits targeted at key employees, and we seek their businesses.
to build strength in depth and to put in place sustainable succession and development plans.
We also operate from many international centres, which reduces reliance on single pools of talent and individual country stability.
Clear objectives are set and success is measured in the annual review process, allowing us to identify motivational development initiatives.
Conduct risk The risks of client detriment, This is managed through a conduct risk framework focusing on enhancements particularly with respect to retail fund to risk identification, mitigation, management information and reporting in distribution and Wealth Management, conjunction with line management and Human Resources.
and market integrity, money laundering and bribery and corruption.
Our client take-on programmes are designed to confirm clients status, risk appetite and requirements.
We face the possible risk of We expect our employees to behave with integrity, which is one of our core inappropriate conduct or actions by values.
We promote our cultural values throughout the firm and demand high individuals or a group of employees.
ethical standards and train our employees accordingly.
Legal, regulatory The risk that Schroders or its We rely on our employees, with support from our Compliance and Legal and compliance counterparties or clients fail to meet functions, to consider carefully the obligations we assume and our compliance risk their legal obligations and the risk of with them.
The risk Confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that any that client expectations and obligations actual or potential dispute or claim has been brought promptly to the attention with respect to our own and third-party of the General Counsel.
responsibilities under their investment management and other agreements We maintain compliance procedures across the Group, and our Compliance will not be met, with a revenue or and Legal functions support business management in meeting its obligations.
Compliance with relevant regulatory requirements is monitored in accordance with a risk-based programme.
The risk of legal or regulatory action resulting in fines, penalties, censure Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance and Legal or other sanction or legal action functions.
Key regulatory change risks are identified on page 41.
We maintain arising from failure to identify or meet good working relationships with our regulators and participate in industry regulatory and legislative requirements representative organisations globally to ensure we are informed of potential in those jurisdictions in which the changes in regulations.
With the introduction of central clearing for derivatives we are revising our credit The risk that new regulation or changes and operational due diligence processes.
to the interpretation or implementation of existing regulation affects the Groups operations and cost base.
Geographical Our business is broadly diversified We employ local people with local expertise and also second employees diversity risk by region which, whilst mitigating internationally within the Group.
aggregate risk, introduces risks as The Group Risk Committee receives reports from line management regarding a result of complexity, local laws, matters giving cause for concern and recommendations for appropriate regulations, business customs remedial action.
We keep our employees up-to-date on relevant international regulation.
An independent team, reporting to the Group Head of Risk, is responsible for assessing the impact of material risk issues and events across the offices of the Group and implementing appropriate and timely risk mitigation.
Our overseas operations are regularly reviewed by Internal Audit.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Key risks and mitigations continued Key continuing risks The key continuing risks outlined on pages 36 to 39 have been assessed in the light of the current economic and geopolitical environment as summarised in the diagram below.
The horizontal axis shows whether risk is stable or heightened reflecting current market conditions, where relevant.
The vertical axis shows whether the potential cost of the key risk is stable or has increased.
The Group undertakes additional work to address those risks that it considers to be potentially heightened and or more costly.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risk 15.
Geographical diversity risk 2 5 Risk stable Risk heightened Risk Key emerging risks Emerging risks are those with uncertain impact, probability and timeframe that could cause risk to the Group.
These are the hardest to define and may change in nature.
We analyse each risk and, if needed, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
The external emerging risks that are currently our focus of attention are set out below.
The diagram indicates our assessment of the likelihood and potential timing of these risks.
The estimated likelihood may change as circumstances change and mitigation plans are developed.
Regulatory risks are reported on the following page.
UK exit from the European Union 10 7 8 14 4 Market Other Client competitor Regulatory legislative Counterparty third party Within 12 months Uncertain Time 40 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Likelihood Costs Certain Uncertain Cost stable Cost increased Strategic report Business review Key regulatory change risks The extent of regulatory change facing our industry has increased significantly in recent years.
The following diagram combines known and emerging key regulatory change risks, to identify both the likely timing and estimated impact of regulatory change on our business.
New risks in 2013 are highlighted in grey.
More information on key changes can be found in the Market review and Operating review sections.
Capital Requirements market funds reform 11 2 17 Directive IV 15.
Anti-Money Laundering Europe, Asia 10 Directive IV 17.
Dealing commission reform 20 reporting framework 16 5 3 In 2012 Annual Report New addition Within 1 year Within 2 years Over 2 years Time In 2013, we strengthened our investment risk team within Equities with a dedicated team focusing on consistency of investment performance.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Group Impact High Medium Low
