34 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk, Risk Management and Internal Control he mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and Overseeing our Risk Management Framework on behalf of the Tmonitoring risks, including internal controls, are an integral Board is the Risk Committee.
This is made up of Non-executive part of the management processes of the Group.
Understanding Board members and is responsible for ensuring that a culture of the risks we face, and managing them appropriately, enables effective risk identification and management is fostered across the effective decision-making, contributes to our competitive Group.
A report of their activity during the year is on pages 62 advantage and helps us to achieve our business objectives as set and 63. out on pages 10 and 11.
However, in establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the materiality of The Risk Committee is supported by a Risk Executive relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the costs of Committee and the Risk Management team, which take the lead mitigating risks.
The system is therefore designed to manage, in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place and that there is rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business on-going development and co-ordination of risk management objectives and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, within the Group.
assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss.
Ultimately, each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and reporting its own risks each quarter.
Risk management Framework Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the The Risk Management Framework, which is the responsibility of probability of its occurrence and impact assessments are made the Board, enables the continuous identification and assessment of against financial and non-financial metrics.
Establishment of risks that may impact on the successful delivery of our Group appropriate controls is a core part of the risk management business objectives.
The Risk Management team supports Divisional managers in these activities.
Risk Management Framework Group Risk Appetite Business Risk Policies Managers Risk Management Management and Capitalisation of Risks Executive Team Oversight Board Group Risk Management Information Oversight including Key Risk Indicators Business Units RiskSchedule LossData Risk&ControlMeetings Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Financial Reporting Processes Specifically in relation to the financial reporting processes, the main features of the internal control and risk management systems include: Extensive documentation, operation and assessment of controls in key risk areas.
Monthly review and sign-off of all financial accounting data submitted by outsourced providers and the results of all subsidiaries within the Group.
Formal review of financial statements by senior management, for both individual companies and the consolidated Group.
Control Self-assessment In 2013, the Group has introduced a process of control self-assessments to support and challenge line managers in their risk management.
The process requires business areas to review their key controls and sign-off on their efficacy.
Where appropriate, action plans are documented to improve the design and operation of the controls.
Following a successful pilot with some key areas the process is now being rolled-out more widely.
Compliance with Corporate Governance Code and Turnbull These processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place for all of the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
They are regularly reviewed by the Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the Guidance for Directors in C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal Control.
Risk appetite and Risk Policies At the centre of our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Appetite Statement.
In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets out risk boundaries i. e. a specification of the types of risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated to ensure that it continues to embody the values which drive how the Group conducts itself.
It also sets out how the Group operates in its chosen business and specifies appropriate metrics for monitoring this.
In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a number of Risk Policies which clearly establish our objectives, principles and high level management activities in relation to each of the main types of risk that the Group faces.
When analysing risks, we use these categories to help improve understanding and management of our exposure.
Risk schedules and Key Risk Indicators Corporate and Divisional risk schedules and quarterly Key Risk Indicator reports are produced to facilitate the monitoring of risks by the Risk and Finance Executive Committees, Risk Committee and Board.
The Risk Management and Finance functions also monitor risk capital.
These schedules and indicators provide a mechanism for capturing and considering the significant risks facing the business.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk, Risk Management and Internal Control continued Principal Risks and uncertainties The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: Risk Description Management and Controls Advice Advice given by an individual Partner or authorised by Advice guidelines are agreed by technical specialists and the Group is deemed unsuitable leading to redress costs, reviewed by Group management.
These guidelines are potential reputational damage and prospective supported by Training and Accreditation arrangements retrospective regulatory intervention.
with close compliance monitoring to ensure they are followed.
Appropriate incentives exist to promote Partner compliance, whilst non-compliance is subject to censure and other sanctions.
The Group also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Distribution The Groups distribution strength may be eroded due to We employ a number of specialist managers specifically capability an inability to recruit and retain Partners of the to manage the recruitment and retention of high quality appropriate quality.
Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
We are also continuing to develop the SJP Academy, overseen by a dedicated senior management team, to broaden our recruitment streams.
Ethos Changes to the SJP ethos and culture adversely impact We have a range of strategic mechanisms in place the continuing success of the business.
including, for example, regular surveys and consultation groups, which enable us to monitor the sentiment of our staff and Partners.
We use these to identify any potential adverse impacts upon, or trends within, our culture, which allows us to respond appropriately.
Investment Our approach to investment management may fail to We actively manage and monitor the performance of our Management deliver expected returns to clients of the Group.
investment managers through the Investment Committee Approach which also makes use of firms of professional advisers led by Stamford Associates to help them with this key task.
At the same time, and to ensure clients can manage their risks as well, we offer a broad range of funds, which allows client diversification and mitigates our new business, persistency and market risks.
Market changes A new entrant or competitor in the adviser-based We closely monitor competitor activity and the wealth management market has an impact on the marketplace for signs of any potential new entrants or success of SJPs business.
threats: for example, a crowding of the high net worth marketplace if firms concentrate on wealthier clients.
As noted above, we have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
In addition, more established SJP Partners often have significant equity stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Risk Description Management and Controls Outsourcing The Groups dependence on outsourcing may come We are a relationship business and believe in the value under threat should any of its key investment of maintaining close working relationships, particularly management or administration business partners with our outsourcing partners who are central to our decide to exit the market, significantly revise their business model.
Our focus on positive relationships strategy or fail.
means we are able to work effectively and efficiently together to deliver the best result.
However, it also provides protection as we would have warning of any material change that could significantly impact our business.
In the extreme event, all our relationships are governed by formal agreements with notice periods and full exit management plans, and if required, strong alternative providers exist in the market.
Business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are also continually tested and improved and scenario analysis carried out.
In recent years we have commenced an investment programme to bring our back office administration systems together, to accommodate continued growth.
We believe this initiative has strengthened our business administration outsourcing arrangements.
Regulatory, That changes in the wider regulatory, legislative or tax Our governance structures, management committees legislative environment could have an adverse impact on the and compliance monitoring activities seek to ensure we and tax Groups business and or the Group could face a fine or remain compliant with regulation.
Our active approach environment regulatory censure from failure to comply with to maintaining an open and mutually beneficial applicable regulations.
relationship with our regulators provides intelligence to mitigate the risk of operating in a highly regulated sector.
Membership of appropriate trade bodies can also provide information about proposed changes.
The Group also engages the services of relevant public relations and communications consultants.
Retail Further changes to the market, following the During the period of implementing the original Distribution completion of the regulators review of outcomes and changes, the strength of the relationship with our Review other thematic work, adversely impact the Group.
clients was invaluable in sustaining both our clients and our business through the period of change and uncertainty.
We are monitoring the regulators activity and thinking, to mitigate as far as possible the risk of any further changes arising from the Retail Distribution Review.
38 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk, Risk Management and Internal Control continued Other Key Risks and uncertainties In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties mentioned above there are other key risks and uncertainties that are inherent within the businesses and markets in which we operate.
These are detailed in the following table under the relevant risk categories, together with the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks.
Financial Risks Risk Description Management and Controls Credit The risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to credit or other line of credit, including holdings of cash and risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks accepting credit risk except when necessary to support and financial institutions.
Loans and advances to Partners are assessed on a prudent basis and monitored carefully.
Liquidity The risk that the Group, although solvent, either does The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to not have available sufficient financial resources to enable minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure where necessary to support other business objectives.
such resources only at excessive cost.
Generally, free assets are invested in cash or near cash assets with strong counterparties and the Groups cash position and forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
The Group also makes use of some bank financing.
In certain, unlikely, circumstances including change of control the terms of these agreements could mandate immediate repayment.
Market The risk of loss due to the impact of movement in the The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, value of equity or other asset markets.
with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other business objectives.
Generally, free assets are invested in cash or near cash to minimise market movement impact.
However, future profits are dependent on annual management charges which will vary with market levels.
Insurance The risk that arises from inherent uncertainties as The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance only actively pursuing it where beneficial, or in support liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance risk by of strategic objectives.
Historically, the Group insured issuing insurance contracts under which it agrees to mortality and morbidity risks, through protection compensate the client if a specified future event business, but much of this risk has now been fully occurs.
reinsured through a combination of treaties.
Work continues on an arrangement to fully reinsure the remaining protection business which, if successful, would leave only a small amount of mortality risk existing on other investment and pension insurance contracts.
The Group has no longevity risk as we have never written annuity business.
Further detail about the Groups exposure to financial risks is included in Note 28 of the consolidated accounts.
