76 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 Approach to Remuneration for Recruitment Structuring the annual bonus plan to contain a mix of financial andPromotions and strategic performance metrics, where performance The Committee would aim to set a new Executive Directors conditions are tailored to the business outlook and strategy, remuneration package in line with the Companys approved policy including the management of risk within the business.
The at the time of appointment.
The Committee will take into Committee also retains the discretion to reduce the bonus account, in arriving at a total package and in considering the outturn where appropriate.
quantum for each element of the package, the skills and Assessing the performance metrics from a risk perspective, experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of with input from the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
that experience as well as the importance of securing the best Requiring deferral of 50% of annual bonus payments into candidate.
For new appointments, base salary and total St. Jamess Place shares which are deferred for three years.
remuneration may be set initially at below normal market rates on Requiring the Executive Directors to retain shares acquired on the basis that it may be increased once expertise and performance vesting of PSP awards granted from 1 January 2014 to has been proven and sustained.
31 December 2014 for a six month period post the date of vesting, increasing to a twoyear period for awards granted Annual bonus potential will not exceed 150% of salary and from 1 January 2015. longterm incentives will not exceed 250% of salary not including Ensuring that the majority of the incentive pay comes in the any arrangements to replace forfeited deferred pay.
Participation form of a longterm incentive plan subject to stretching in the annual bonus plan and Performance Share Plan will normally performance targets measured over multiyear performance be prorated for the year of joining and different performance periods, with the performance period for subsequent awards measures may be set from those applying to the other Directors, if overlapping the previous award, together with an additional it is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities two year holding period.
This ensures that there is no and the point in the year in which they joined the Board.
particular incentive to maximise performance over a particular period.
The Committee may make additional cash and or share based Incorporating claw back into the Companys bonus and long awards as it deems appropriate and if the circumstances so term incentive plans.
demand to take account of deferred pay forfeited by an executive Requiring the Executive Directors to build and maintain a on leaving a previous employer.
Awards to replace deferred pay substantial shareholding in the Company.
forfeited would, where possible, reflect the nature of awards forfeited in terms of delivery mechanism cash or shares, time Remuneration Policy across the Group horizons, attributed expected value and performance conditions.
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed Other payments may be made in relation to relocation expenses with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a and other incidental expenses as appropriate.
whole and the Committee aims, where appropriate, for there to be a consistent approach applied.
For instance, the suite of In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element benefits in kind is consistent other than in relation to quantum awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out and all employees participate in annual bonus plans.
All according to its terms and any other ongoing remuneration employees, including the Executive Directors, are offered the obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
opportunity to participate in the Groups SAYE Share Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan.
Senior managers participate in the If appropriate and in exceptional circumstances the Committee longterm incentive plan.
may agree, on the recruitment of a new executive, a notice period of in excess of 12 months but reducing to 12 months over a The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more specified period.
weighted towards variable pay than for other employees to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful delivery of For the appointment of a new Chairman or Nonexecutive business strategy, and in line with shareholder interests.
In Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with addition, more of senior level remuneration is deferred than in the approved remuneration policy at that time.
the case for the workforce as a whole.
Risk Management Employees were not consulted in respect of the Directors Risk is managed within the remuneration policy through the remuneration policy, but the Committee does consider the Committee: remuneration arrangements for the broader employee population Taking into consideration the recommendations contained when determining the policy for the Executive Directors.
in the FCA Remuneration Code the Code and associated guidance which the Committee considers is relevant albeit that St. Jamess Place is not specifically required to comply with the Code.
