28 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Board Diversity value creation objectives and potential value erosion Following the sale of 50.1% of Aberdeen SVG Private risks if an objective is not met: recording these Equity Advisers formerly known as SVG Advisers to objectives in a corporate objectives register: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC AAM the assigning specific management personnel in ASVGA Company has nogroup employees.
Two of the five toobjectives to regularly assess and report upwards board directors are women and the Company will to the Board on the state of retained residual risk, seek to maintain at least a 25% proportion of female including whether the current residual risk status is board membership.
consistent with the Companys risk appetite: and direct, senior Aberdeen SVG Private Equity ASVG Employees, Social, Community and Human management and Board input and involvement in Rights Issues deciding which end-result objectives warrant formal The Company is advised by Aberdeen SVG Private risk assessments: and theappropriate level of risk Equity Advisers and has no employees.
There are assessment rigour and independent assurance to therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of beapplied in light of cost benefit considerations.
Details of AAMs policies on this area can TheBoard believes this new approach better be foundin its report and accounts.
positions the Company to meet the emerging risk Greenhouse Gas Emissions governance expectations proposed by the Financial The Company has no premises, and, as such, Stability Board FSB globally, and the Financial consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and Reporting Council FRC in the November 2013 consequently does not have a measurable carbon Consultation draft Risk Management, Internal footprint.
AAM operates an environmental Control and the Going-Concern Basis of Accounting.
management system tomeasure, monitor and The Companies Act and FRC require companies reduce negative environmental impacts.
Progress is todisclose the principal risks and uncertainties the measured through scoring by the Carbon Disclosure Company faces.
The Company believes this process Project anot-for-profit organisation working to is best done by considering the Companys most drive sustainable business practice.
Further details of important value creation objectives and objectives AAMs policies on this area can be found inits that have the potential, if not achieved, to reportand accounts.
Independent expert advice has been obtained to ensure that Risks theprocesses used to populate and maintain the Companys objectives register and the related Principal Risks, Risk Management and residual risk status information arerobust, effective, Risk Oversight and fit for purpose.
Senior management and the Board take their responsibility to manage and oversee risk very Principal risks and uncertainties are defined by the seriously.
In late 2012 it was decided that Board as risks with the highest overall potential to improvements were needed to meet new emerging affect the achievement of the Companys business risk governance expectations.
These include: ensuring the ability to processes that existed at that time included creating meet liabilities as they fall due and meet liabilities in and maintaining a corporate risk register, assigning full: and achieving the target of delivering a 5% p. a. risk owners, and use of an internal audit services net outperformance over public markets over a provider to complete spot-in-time internal audits on 10-year period.
Principal risks relating to delivery areas topics considered to be high risk.
A decision ofthese objectives are described below, along with was taken to adopt a new Board-driven, objective other principal risks identified in relation to other key centric approach to risk management and internal objectives.
Further information on risk factors is set audit that focuses on identifying the most critical out in note 29 to the Accounts.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information k SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 29 Risks continued Principal risks and uncertainties Change from 2012 Key risk treatments Following the sale of 50.1% of ASVG to AAM, the Company has a number of rights and vk the Company now outsources all investment protections under the terms of a shareholders advice and associated services to a non-Group agreement in respect of its holding in ASVG and This risk has been added this year.
As such, the Company does not has two appointees to the board of ASVG.
The have the same level of control over its Company is a key client of ASVG.
If the Company investment advisers as it had prior to such sale is dissatisfied with the performance of ASVG it can terminate the investment advisory agreement.
Concentration risk may result in the The Board considers the performance of its largest vk performance of the Company being unduly portfolio companies in detail periodically and, in affected by the performance of one or a small extremis, can dispose of fund commitments.
This risk was assessed as stable.
While group of underlying investee companies.
The Company has changed its Investment there remains a high proportion of the TheCompanys largest individual underlying Objective to evolve from a concentrated, single investment portfolio represented by company holding represents 37.1% of the manager investor to one that is more diversified.
the Top 10 investments, new gross management buy-out portfolio and the commitments have been made to Top 10 largest underlying holdings represents underlying funds during the year, 92.2% of the gross management buy-out along with partial realisations of some portfolio.
In addition, the portfolio is of the larger investments.
concentrated by sector with retail accounting for 38% by value and chemicals 23% by value Currency risk may  by the Company continually monitors foreign vk the Company as the majority of itsassets are exchange risk.
Many the Company has the ability to hedge against This risk was assessed as stable.
During investee companies are international foreign currencymovements, but has decided not the year, the Company repaid its US$ andtherefore exposed to multiplecurrencies to hedge the currency risk on its investment borrowing.
However, the majority of portfolio.
assets are in while the Company reports in.
The Companys excess liquidity isinvested in the Company has a rigorous process to select vk bank accounts and money market funds until andoversee where itinvests surplus funds.
This the capital isrequired to fund new includes detailed analysis of thecredit worthiness This risk was assessed as stable.
investments, fund share buy backs or other and historical track record of the financial Cashand cash-equivalents have returns of capital, deleverage or for general institutions being considered, or in use, and reduced during the year, but still corporate costs.
The safety and soundness of ongoing monitoring of diversification and of remain material.
the investments made with these funds national and international developments that have represents a risk potential to undermine the safetyand soundness ofthose institutions.
The private equity sector globally falls out of private equity has outperformed public markets vk favour with investors leading to a reduction in over the long-term and it has proved to be an demand for the Companys shares attractive asset class through various cycles.
This risk has been added this year.
raising awareness of private equity and attracting new investors mitigates this risk.
The Company invests in funds managed by AAM has a robust HR and professional vk private equity managers, who in turn select development programme in place to ensure high andoversee underlying investee companies.
quality personnel are attracted, retained and This risk was assessed as stable.
The expertise, due diligence, risk management developed.
Investment recommendations skills and integrity of the staff that select ASVG performs extensive due-diligence on the continue to be received from ASVG.
private equity managers and the private private equity managers that it invests with, ASVG is no longer controlled bythe equity managers selected by the Company is whichincludes assessing theadequacy of the Company, but the same team key to the success of the Company riskmanagement frameworks they use, and performs this function at ASVG as did monitoring theirperformance.
prior to the sale of 50.1% of ASVG to AAM.
Financing risk and the inability to match cash flow models are maintained on a live basis funding to the timing of commitments to and forecasts are produced for each Board private equity funds.
Investments by underlying meeting that contain appropriate stress testing.
This risk was assessed as decreasing in fund managers are not sold, or sold for less than the Company can dispose of assets, raise debt or 2013 due tothe increase in liquidity expected, or suffer a reduction in value and equity, or renegotiate the terms of borrowing or net cash: 26.3m 2012 : net cash: those managers continue to call for new investments.
115.2m 2013 andunfunded investments leading to higherdrawdowns on commitments are considered to be new investments are subject to commitment tests.
the loan facility and an increased risk ofbeing manageable.
unable to meet commitments as they fall due By order of the Board Stuart Ballard Company Secretary 14 February 2014
