Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information At 31 December 2013 the Group held cash, cash equivalents Regulatory capital and other financial assets of 282.8m which exceeded the The Groups lead regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority debt outstanding by 55.2m.
The Group has an investment firm consolidation waiver which was approved on 8 June 2011 and which will Debt finance expire on 6 June 2016.
Under the terms of the waiver each The composition of the Groups outstanding debt is investment firm within the Group must be either a limited summarised below.
activity or limited licence firm and must comply with its individual regulatory capital resources requirements.
Outstanding debt The Group is subject to the financial holding company test At 31 Dec At 31 Dec whereby the aggregate financial resources of the Group are m 2013 2012 calculated by reference to the capital and reserves of the Bank amortising term loan 30.0 parent company, Tullett Prebon plc, and the Groups 6.52% Sterling Notes August 2014 8.5 8.5 aggregated financial resources requirement is calculated as the sum of the solo notional capital resources requirements 7.04% Sterling Notes July 2016 141.1 141.1 for each relevant firm within the Group.
5.25% Sterling Notes June 2019 80.0 80.0 The Groups regulatory capital headroom under the financial Unamortised debt issue costs 2.0 3.8 holding company test calculated in accordance with Pillar 1 227.6 255.8 at 31 December 2013 was 608m 2012: 608m.
The remaining balance of the bank amortising term loan was Many of the Groups broking entities are regulated on repaid during the first half of 2013 when the Group entered a solo basis, and are obliged to meet the regulatory into a new three year 150m revolving credit facility which capital requirements imposed by the local regulator of the matures in April 2016.
The revolving credit facility remained jurisdiction in which they operate.
The Group maintains an undrawn throughout the year.
appropriate excess of financial resources in such entities.
Information disclosure under Pillar 3 is available on the Pensions Groups website www.
The Group has one defined benefit pension scheme in the UK following the merger during 2012 of the two schemes which were acquired with Tullett plc and Prebon Marshall RISK MANAGEMENT Yamane.
The scheme is closed to new members and future accrual.
This section sets out a summary of how risk is managed by the Group, covering the risk management governance The triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 30 April structure, the risk management framework, and a 2013 was concluded in January 2014.
The actuarial funding description and analysis of the Groups risk profile.
surplus of the scheme at that date was 64.2m and under the agreed schedule of contributions the Company will The systems of internal control operated by the Group are continue not to make any payments into the scheme.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide The assets and liabilities of the scheme are included in reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 19. misstatement or loss.
The schemes invested assets returned 17% net of fees during the year, and the fair value of the schemes assets Risk Management Governance Structure at the end of the year was 226.1m 2012: 204.3m.
The Introduction value of the schemes liabilities at the end of 2013 calculated The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management in accordance with IAS 19 was 175.6m 2012: 162.9m.
governance structure which is based on the three lines of The valuation of the schemes liabilities at the end of 2013 defence principle which segregates risk management first reflects the demographic assumptions adopted for the most line of defence from risk oversight second line of defence recent triennial actuarial valuation.
Under IAS 19 the scheme and risk assurance third line of defence.
shows a surplus, before the related deferred tax liability, of 50.5m at 31 December 2013 2012: 41.4m.
The Board sets down in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework how the Groups risk exposure must be managed Return on capital employed in line with the Groups overall business objectives and The return on capital employed ROCE in 2013 was 24% within its stated risk appetite.
ROCE is calculated as underlying operating of the process for identifying, evaluating, managing and profit divided by the average capital employed in the reporting the significant risks faced by the Group.
Capital employed is defined as shareholders The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite, funds less net funds and the accounting pension surplus defining the type and level of risk that the Group is willing to net of deferred tax, adding back cumulative amortised and accept in pursuit of its business objectives.
impaired goodwill and post tax reorganisation costs related to the integration of the Tullett and Prebon businesses.
13 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 13 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued The Board is responsible for approving the Risk Assessment Finance Framework, which is used to ensure that the Group has a The Groups regional Finance departments are responsible comprehensive understanding of its risk profile, including for implementing and monitoring the relevant financial both existing and emerging risks facing the Group, and to controls, and for providing management with timely and enable it to assess the adequacy of its risk management accurate reporting of financial performance against budget policies in the context of the Groups risk appetite.
The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the Second line of defence risk oversight Group maintains sufficient capital and liquidity resources The second line of defence consists of the Groups risk to meet its regulatory capital and liquidity requirements oversight functions, principally the Group Risk Control and to support its growth and strategic objectives.
function and the Group Treasury and Risk Committee as well as certain business support functions which undertake Risk management is embedded throughout the business, a risk oversight activity in addition to their primary roles, with the overall risk appetite and risk management strategy most notably the Compliance and Finance departments.
approved by the Board propagated down throughout the business as appropriate.
The principal elements of the Group Risk Control Groups risk management governance structure are set Group Risk Control is independent of the business and is out below.
responsible for monitoring the Groups risk exposure and developing risk management policies to ensure that the First line of defence risk management Group operates in accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
Business management In fulfilling this duty, it provides daily and monthly risk The first line of defence is the regional senior management reports to senior management which are reviewed by the who have primary responsibility for ensuring that risks are Group Treasury and Risk Committee GTRC.
The Group clearly owned and managed on a day to day basis, that Treasurer and Head of Risk Control reports to the Group systems of control operate effectively and that the Groups Finance Director.
risk exposure remains within the prescribed risk tolerances set out in the Groups Risk Management Policies.
Group Treasury and Risk Committee The members of the GTRC are the Chief Executive, who acts The regional senior management are reliant on various as chairman, the Group Finance Director and the Group support and control functions in the discharge of their risk Treasurer and Head of Group Risk Control.
The minutes of management responsibilities, most notably the regional the GTRC are circulated to the Board.
The responsibilities Credit, Operations, Compliance, Legal and Finance of the GTRC are to: departments.
review the risks arising in the Groups businesses and Compliance the adequacy of monitoring and mitigating controls: The Groups Compliance departments monitor compliance with the various regulatory requirements to which the make recommendations on risk appetite to the Board: Group is subject, including those imposed by the UK monitor the implementation and effectiveness regulatory regime and those imposed by the regulatory of the Groups risk management framework: framework of the other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance officers are in regular contact approve the Groups Risk Management Policies that with the regional management and compliance reports set minimum standards and risk tolerances for the are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
management of each identified risk: Credit risk management approve the Group Risk Reporting Framework The Groups Credit departments are responsible for that sets out the minimum reporting requirements for monitoring the creditworthiness of the Groups each risk identified in the Risk Management Policies: and counterparties and for the proactive monitoring of approve specific technical policies, as required, counterparty credit exposure against pre-determined that set out how certain risk management tasks reporting thresholds set by the relevant regional Credit or processes are to be carried out to provide a consistent Committee, as well as for providing senior management approach in line with regulatory and internal standards.
and the other control functions with timely and accurate reporting of the Groups credit exposure.
Business support functions exercising oversight Certain business support functions undertake certain risk Operations settlements oversight activities in addition to their first line of defence The Operations departments play a key role in establishing risk management activities.
procedures and monitoring the exposure to risks arising in Matched Principal activities.
Controls include the Operations departments key oversight activities include reconciliation of cash, client money and securities positions: the monitoring of residual balances and failed settlements, the monitoring and resolution of late-settling trades and as well as the review of cancels and corrects trade resultant cash positions: and the identification and control amendments.
14 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 14 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Compliance departments the regional Compliance Risk Appetite Statements departments are responsible for investigating any suspicious The Groups Risk Appetite Statements define the type and broker or market activity, with the Head of Compliance level of risk that the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of acting as the Groups Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
The Groups Risk Appetite Statements are approved by the Board in the context of the Groups Finance departments Finance departments review strategy.
The Risk Appetite Statements are articulated at the financial results and balance sheets and investigate any levels of general risk types that could impact on the business unusual or unexpected results.
objectives set by the Board.
High level measures and Third line of defence independent assurance tolerances are developed, where appropriate, for each Risk The third line of defence consists of the Groups risk Appetite Statement, which are used to establish relevant assurance functions, principally the Internal Audit function policies and controls that link risk management to the risk which reports to the Audit Committee of the Board.
appetite set by the Board.
Internal Audit In accordance with the Risk Appetite Statements set by The objectives of Internal Audit are to assess the the Board, the Group does not actively seek risk in order to effectiveness of the Groups risk management, internal generate a return but is willing to accept a limited amount controls and governance process: whether operational and of risk as a consequence of its broking activities, principally financial controls are appropriate and consistently applied: counterparty credit risk and operational risk.
This is reflected the effectiveness of internal controls for the safeguarding in the business model adopted by the Group whereby it acts of assets: the reliability and integrity of management only as an intermediary in the financial markets and does information: and the adequacy of processes to ensure not trade for its own account.
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Risk Assessment Framework Internal Audit also provides an independent reporting The Risk Assessment Framework process ensures that the facility under the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
Group has a comprehensive understanding of its risk profile, including both existing and emerging risks faced by the The Audit Committee reviews and approves the internal Group, and to enable the Group to assess the adequacy of its audit plans, the findings of all internal audits undertaken risk management policies in the context of the Groups Risk are reported to the Audit Committee, and actions taken Appetite Statements.
by management in response to the findings are tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
The Risk Assessment Framework identifies risks within nine risk categories.
The risks within each category are analysed, Internal audit work during 2013 covered the full audit mitigating factors assessed, and relevant controls identified.
universe within the Group at different levels of intensity The risks are then graded for their expected severity and based upon the internal audit plan agreed with the Audit probability, and assigned a risk rating.
The Risk Assessment Committee in December 2012.
The plan was developed Framework process includes an assessment of the controls reflecting the results of a risk assessment exercise.
in place to manage each risk identified, and the identification Since December 2007, Internal Audit has been outsourced of any changes required to the control environment.
to , who will continue to provide The Risk Assessment Framework is regularly updated and the service until June 2014.
KPMG will take over the is reviewed at least twice each year by the Board, with outsourced Internal Audit role from July 2014. particular focus on high priority risks.
The Risk Assessment Framework is used in the development of the Groups risk Risk Management Framework management policies, the assessment of the appropriate Enterprise Risk Management Framework levels of capital, to inform the scope of the internal audit The Group recognises that a strong culture of risk plan, and to determine the frequency and content of management is essential for the financial strength and risk reporting.
resilience of the Group, and for the achievement of its business objectives.
The Board is responsible for ensuring Risk Management Policies that the Group has an appropriately robust framework Effective risk management requires that all employees of risk governance and controls in place at all times and involved in risk management, risk oversight and risk across all risk categories, which complies with all applicable assurance activities have a clear understanding of the regulatory requirements and is in line with industry good Groups risk profile and the various policies adopted to practice.
The Groups risk management framework is set out manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, as well in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
as the Groups tolerance for each such risk.
The ERMF documents the core principles, key components The Groups Risk Management Policies RMP sets out the and key responsibilities of the risk management framework individual risk management policies for each risk identified adopted by the Board to manage the Groups risk exposure in the Groups Risk Assessment Framework.
These policies in line with the Groups overall business objectives and represent the minimum standards adopted for the within its stated risk appetite.
15 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 15 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued Each policy within the RMP includes the following match clients orders precisely.
Such positions are valued and components: measured from trade date on a daily mark-to-market basis.
a detailed description of the risk: The Groups Risk Management Policies reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, any risk tolerance s adopted for the risk: and the Groups policy is to close out such balances immediately.
a description of the key policies adopted to manage each All Market Risk arising across the Group is identified and risk within the Groups risk appetite and in line with any monitored on a daily basis.
Credit Risk Given the importance and complexity of operational risk, The Credit Risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty the Group has set out how the Boards requirements within credit risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises the ERMF are to be applied specifically to operational risk from the following: in the Operational Risk Management Framework.
pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: Group Risk Reporting Framework The Group Treasury and Risk Committee, Executive Directors settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: and senior management receive appropriate information and exception reports to comply with the Groups Risk cash deposits held at banks and money market Management Policies, and to identify any new risks or instruments: and exposures that may arise.
These reporting requirements are Name Passing brokerage receivables.
set out in the Group Risk Reporting Framework Document.
These requirements include reports detailing the current In addition to each individual element of counterparty risk status of existing controls, audits, loss events, and any identified above, the Group is also exposed to concentration required action plans to remedy any identified shortcomings risk.
This is where the Group becomes overly exposed to in the control environment.
these credit exposures in the aggregate either to an individual counterparty or to a group of linked Regional implementation of RMP counterparties.
Regional senior management are responsible for adopting a Risk Management Policies Operations and Implementation Pre-settlement risk Document RMPOID to ensure that the operating Pre-settlement risk arises in the Matched Principal broking subsidiaries within their region operate in accordance with business in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves the relevant policy framework and risk tolerances prescribed as principal between two or more contracting parties to a in the RMP.
The RMPOID identifies the individual responsible Matched Principal transaction and as a result the Group is at for the management of each risk for the region, the various risk of loss should one of the parties to a transaction default controls adopted to implement the risk management on its obligations prior to settlement date.
In the event of policies set out in the RMP, and documents the risk reporting default, the Group would have to replace the defaulted for each risk and how material risk exposures will be contract in the market.
This is a contingent risk in that the escalated to an appropriate level of senior management.
Group will only suffer loss if the market price of the securities has moved adversely to the original trade price.
Other risk management documentation Specific technical policies set out how certain processes are Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and required to be carried out.
The Stress Testing Policy provides the Group takes steps to reduce counterparty risk where clear guidelines covering how stress tests for regulatory and market conditions require.
Particular attention is paid to internal requirements are to be executed.
The ICAAP Policy more illiquid markets where the price movement is more sets out how the UK regulated entities must perform the volatile, such as broking in GDR, ADR and emerging markets ICAAP process and returns in accordance with FCA instruments.
The Group is also exposed to short term pre-settlement risk where it acts as an executing broker on an exchange, during Risk profile the period between the execution of the trade and the client The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the claiming the trade.
This exposure is minimal as under the risks faced by the Group into nine risk categories: Market terms of the give-up agreements the Group has in place Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic and Business with its clients, trades must be claimed by the end of trade Risk, Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and Human day.
Once the trade has been claimed, the Groups only Resources Risk, Reputational Risk, Liquidity Risk and exposure to the client is for the invoiced receivables.
Settlement risk Market Risk Settlement risk is the risk that on settlement date Market risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements a counterparty defaults on its contractual obligation in the value of financial instruments.
The Group does not to make payment for a securities transaction after the take trading risk and does not hold proprietary trading corresponding value has been paid away by the Group.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to Market Unlike pre-settlement risk, the exposure is to the full Risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial principal value of the transaction.
instruments arising as a result of the Groups failure to 16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 16 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement events preventing access to premises, telecommunications is almost invariably effected on a Delivery versus Payment failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business basis.
Free of payment deliveries where an immediate activities: and exposure arises due to the Groups settling its side of broker errors.
the transaction without simultaneous receipt of the countervalue occur very infrequently and only under Strategic and Business Risk the application of stringent controls.
The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense competition, rapid technological change and Cash deposits a continually evolving regulatory framework.
Failure to The Group is exposed to counterparty Credit Risk in respect adapt to changing market dynamics, customer requirements of cash deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast or the way OTC markets and their participants are regulated majority of the Groups cash deposits are held with highly constitutes a significant long term risk.
The Group has rated clearing banks and settlement organisations as set identified four principal categories of Strategic and out in the Credit Risk analysis in Note 25 to the Consolidated Business Risk: Financial Statements.
direct regulatory risk: As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty exposures and limits are kept under review and steps are indirect regulatory risk: taken to reduce counterparty risk where market conditions lower market activity risk: and require.
Name Passing brokerage receivables The majority of transactions brokered by the Group are Direct regulatory risk on a Name Passing basis, where the Group acts as agent The risk of new regulations imposing a fundamental change in arranging the trade and is not a counterparty to the to the structure or activity of financial markets, resulting transaction.
Whilst the Group does not suffer any exposure in a reduced role for IDBs.
Specific issues could include an in relation to the underlying instrument brokered given that inability of the business to provide electronic platforms or the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposed to the market facilities which are compliant with new regulations risk that the client fails to pay the brokerage it is charged.
or the obligation to hold punitive levels of regulatory capital.
Receivables arising from Name Passing brokerage are closely Indirect regulatory risk monitored by senior management.
The risk of a fundamental change to the commercial Concentration risk environment due to the impact on clients of changes to their The possibility of concentration risk exists in the level regulatory environment causing significantly reduced trade of exposure to counterparties.
The Group controls its volumes.
This could include increased execution and clearing credit exposure to counterparties and groups of linked costs, onerous collateral requirements or increases in counterparties through the application of a system of regulatory capital requirements, or a prohibition on certain counterparty credit limits based on the mark-to-market types of trading activity.
exposure for Matched Principal trades, outstanding Lower market activity risk brokerage receivables for Name Passing trades, and amount The risk that the Group experiences a sustained period of on deposit for cash deposit exposure.
Credit departments low market activity leading to reduced revenues.
This could also monitor exposures across country groupings, credit arise as a result of adverse macro-economic conditions, rating, and types of counterparty.
reduced levels of general banking activity, market Operational Risk uncertainty or lack of volatility.
Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate Commercial risk or failed internal processes, people activities, systems or The risk of a fundamental change to the commercial external events.
Operational Risk covers a wide and diverse environment, whether due to client requirements or range of risk types, and the overall objective of the Groups competitor activity.
The Group seeks to manage and approach to Operational Risk management is not to attempt mitigate its commercial risk by following a clearly defined to avoid all potential risks, but to proactively identify and business development strategy, geographic and product assess risks and risk situations in order to manage them in an diversification and strong client relationship management.
Examples of Operational Risk include: Commercial risk also includes the risk that the Group is unable to respond to market demand for electronic broking IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of data solutions and loses market share as a result.
The Group seeks integrity: to address this risk through continued development and failure or disruption of a critical business process, through enhancement of its electronic broking capability, to ensure internal or external error or event: that it can offer a competitive solution for all major asset classes.
failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems, or errors in instructions: 17 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 17 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
Such Governance Risk settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, namely Governance Risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business the cost of funding the security which we have failed to arising as a result of a failure of management structures deliver until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled or processes.
This includes failure to adhere to applicable and we have received the associated cash.
corporate governance requirements such as those recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging a failure to ensure adequate succession to key management overdraft facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, positions, or the inappropriate use of authority and influence either with the relevant settlement agent depository or by current or former senior members of staff.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any failed to deliver trades The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility strong control environment which exists within the Group, providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent in particular the involvement of the Audit Committee, company guarantee to protect them from any adverse the Internal Audit function and the Group Treasury and mark-to-market movement, and some also charge a funding Risk Committee.
Succession planning within the Group fee for providing the facility.
Regulatory, Legal and Human Resource Risk The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory clearing houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct and the United States.
of business requirements or market abuse provisions : In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse the possible costs and penalties associated with litigation: to existing global cash resources, after which it could draw and the possibility of a failure to retain and motivate key down on a 150m committed revolving credit line as members of staff.
The Group also faces the risk that changes additional contingency funding.
This facility remained in applicable laws and regulations could have a serious undrawn throughout 2013. adverse impact on the business.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are The Groups lead regulator is the FCA, but the Group is also provided in Notes 22, 25 and 31 to the Consolidated subject to the requirements imposed by the regulatory Financial Statements.
framework of the other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups compliance officers monitor Other Financial Risks compliance with applicable regulations and report regularly The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that to the Board.
The Groups Legal department oversees it is exposed to a number of other financial risks including contracts entered into by Group companies, and manages interest rate risk, currency risk, taxation risks, and pension litigation which arises from time to time.
Interest rate risk Reputational Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash Reputational Risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do deposits and on borrowings under bank facilities.
The business might be damaged as a result of its reputation Groups Sterling Notes carry interest at fixed rates.
Clients rely on the Groups integrity and deposits are typically held at maturities of less than three probity.
The Group has policies and procedures in place months.
to manage this risk to the extent possible, which include conduct of business rules, procedures for employee hiring The GTRC periodically considers the Groups exposure to and the taking on of new business.
Liquidity Risk Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an rates is set out in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable Statements.
securities and facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent Currency risk balances are held with the primary objective of capital The Group trades in a number of currencies around the security and availability, with a secondary objective of world, but reports its results in sterling.
The Group therefore generating returns.
Funding requirements are monitored has translation exposure to foreign currency exchange rate by the GTRC.
movements in these currencies, principally the US dollar and the Euro, and transaction exposure within individual As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity operations which undertake transactions in one currency risk through the risk of being required to fund transactions and report in another.
that fail to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign transactions, where the business has received a security currency exchange rates is set out in Note 25 to the from the selling counterparty and has paid cash in Consolidated Financial Statements.
settlement of the same but is unable to effect onward 18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
