P o l i c i e s & P r y o t c i P r e e r t C o f d n o g o h r e u n n i t m t r n m t i a u r d n e s n u a o A c s l A s l P e e l a Strategic Report We are operating in a challenging environment where levels of trust between the UK energy sector and society have fallen steeply.
To help restore that trust, and in doing so help to ensure the successful Principal implementation of our strategic priorities, we must continue to focus on the principal risks that affect our business and make effective decisions Risks and based on our assessment of those risks.
Uncertainties nICk lUFF Group Finance Director Details of our principal risks and GOvERnAnCE, RISk AnD COntROl uncertainties are set out in pages The Board is responsible for the Groups system 44 to 48 of the Strategic Report.
of internal control and risk management and considers this to be fundamental to the Improvements in 2013 achievement of our strategic priorities.
The Throughout 2013 we continued to develop following diagram shows some of the key the integrated approach to our risk and elements in the governance, risk and control assurance activities.
Specifically the following framework by which our operations are improvements were implemented: conducted.
The work of the Board and its refresh of our risk management policy, Committees is at the heart of the process.
guidelines and assessment matrices They set objectives, performance targets and the introduction of a separate risk and policies designed to achieve a balanced standards document: and transparent assessment of the risks facing our operations and to measure the the Group Control Standards have effectiveness of the key controls in place to been embedded in our self-certification manage them.
The work of the Board is process, which underpins our overall underpinned by clear delegations of authority, review of the system of internalcontrol: effective policies and procedures covering development of software to support key areas of our operation together with a both risk and control processes: set of Business Principles and processes, development of risk training materials to which are communicated to ouremployees.
drive consistency and knowledge sharing: improved interaction with specialist risk committees, such as Legal & Regulatory Compliance and Health, Safety & Environment, which improves visibility and enables a more consistent approach to riskidentification: and a review of and improved resourcing BOARD in a number of second line of defence AND functions.
COMMITTEES Improvements for 2014 The Financial Reporting Council is proposing to replace their existing Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 2005 and Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors 2009 with one set of integrated guidance.
Any proposed changes or additions to the code will require us to formulate a programme of work to ensure compliance, We have processes in place for identifying, which will form the basis for a proportion of evaluating and managing the key risks to our improvement activity during 2014.
Outside the achievement of our strategic objectives.
of this, we will continue to improve our risk These processes are reinforced through management processes with a number of regular performance management and initiatives, including: are subject to internal and external review, identifying areas where we can further enhance implementation and roll-out of risk our risk management activities.
They also management software to help improve risk provide us with an independent and impartial identification and drive consistency: and, assessment of the effectiveness of the control delivering risk management training to framework in place to govern ouroperations.
help ensure a consistent approach in embedding our risk practices through the As with any such system, the processes are business as well as educating employees designed to manage rather than eliminate on the importance of this discipline.
the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
42 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A s c d n M i r s c g e a e t t A e n P n i t t I a v a k a e g i r s t t e g o i i S m e R e p e s l n l t e e D a n d V a l u e s Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Group risk governance structure European & North American Group Financial Risk Financial Risk Management Executive Committee Management Committees Committee Group Risk Business Risk BOARD OF Management Management Committee DIRECTORS Committee Centrica Controls Steering Group Centrica Controls Audit Committee Board Information Risk Steering Group are in place over key operational and The Company is also aware that the integrity Group Risk Management Committee financial reporting processes and related and reputation of our public financial The Group Risk Management Committee IT systems.
The CCB met three times in reporting is of utmost importance.
In addition GRMC plays a pivotal role in the governance 2013 and is chaired by the Group Finance to the controls described above, there are a of risks.
Each of our business units has a Director.
The responsibilities of the CCB number of further processes and steps to Business Risk Management Committee or are discharged through the Centrica provide assurance over the completeness equivalent management committee whose Controls Steering Group CCSG and the and accuracy of our public financial role is to evaluate, report and advise on Information Risk Steering Group IRSG.
reporting, including: material risks and to consider the adequacy of controls and the actions planned to The CCSG monitors the risks and associated review by members of the Executive mitigate those risks.
The most material controls over financial reporting processes, Committee: risks are then reported to the GRMC so including the process by which our Group verification exercises: that it has a clear understanding of our Financial Statements are prepared for review and recommendation by the aggregate risk profile and can ensure that publication the consolidation process.
The Audit Committee: and control processes are in place for the financial reporting controls are monitored review and approval by the Board.
monitoring and management of significant and maintained through the use of internal risks.
The GRMC is chaired by the Chief control frameworks which address key Centrica Storage and other Executive and membership reflects that financial reporting risks, including risks arising Group companies of the Executive Committee.
In 2013, the from changes in the business or accounting Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject GRMC met fourtimes.
Effectiveness is assessed through to undertakings given to the UK Secretary ongoing self-assessment and independent of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, Group Financial Risk testing of the controls.
The CCSG met three operates separately but to the same ManagementCommittee times during 2013 and is chaired by the standards of internal control and risk A separate specialised process to manage Group Head of Financial Controls.
management as the rest of the Group.
financial risks is also required to achieve The IRSG monitors our information systems The internal control and risk management adequate levels of control.
The role of the control environment, providing robust processes of newly acquired companies are Group Financial Risk Management Committee challenge to the business units to ensure also integrated with those of the Group.
GFRMC is therefore to focus specifically that information systems risk management on financial risks as part of the overall risk the Boards review of the system remains effective and appropriate.
It is also management profile.
of internal control responsible for monitoring the progress of Additional monitoring of our financial risks key information security projects.
The IRSG Each year, an extensive process of selfmarket, credit, liquidity risks and operational met three times during 2013 and is chaired certification operates throughout the Group risks within the trading operations is by the Group Head of Information Risk.
whereby the effectiveness of internal controls performed by local Financial Risk Management and compliance with Group Business Executive Committee and Committees covering Europe and North Principles and policies are assessed.
Material financial risk exposures AuditCommittee 2013, the self-certification was completed are then reported to the GFRMC for Our material risks are reported to the Executive both at the half year and full year.
The GFRMC also monitors Committee via the GRMC.
In addition, the year, the self-certification process was the design and implementation of financial Executive Committee regularly undertakes in enhanced to include requirements to perform risk policies and compliance with Group-wide depth reviews of specific risks as appropriate.
more detailed assessments to comply with financial risk limits and appetite.
Quarterly the Group Control Standards.
The results At each of its meetings in 2013 the Audit overviews of the GFRMCs activities are of the annual process, together with the Committee received a risk update as part of provided to the GRMC.
conclusions of the internal reviews by an overall integrated assurance report, which Internal Audit, inform the annual assessment The GFRMC is chaired by the Group Finance provided an assessment of the key risks facing performed by the Audit Committee.
Director and membership comprises senior the Company and the adequacy of the finance and risk personnel.
In addition, the Audit The Board, with the advice of the Audit met 16 times in 2013.
Further details of Committee assessed the activity of the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness the Groups Financial Risk Management Group internal audit function including of the system of internal control, for the are provided in note S3 on page 145. details of findings from reviews conducted period from 1 January 2013 to the date of against a plan which is approved annually this report and is satisfied that the Group Centrica Controls Board by the Audit Committee.
These reports, complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The The Centrica Controls Board CCB, whose supplemented by management presentations Board will continue to routinely challenge members are the Group Finance Director, and discussion with the Audit Committee, management in order to ensure that the the Director of Corporate Finance, the Head enable it to track issues, monitor performance system of internal control is constantly of Risk, Control & Audit and finance directors and ensure that necessary action is taken improving and remains fit for purpose.
for each business unit, is responsible for to remedy any significant failings or ensuring that appropriate internal controls weaknesses identified.
Audit Committee on page 56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 43 Strategic Report The following risks could impact our future Principal Risks and performance.
The list is not exhaustive and items Uncertainties continued are not prioritised.
The list, and the nature of the risks, may change during the year.
Commodity costs Strategic what are the risks?
How do we manage these risks?
A significant proportion of our profitability and price competitiveness is priorities We have an active hedging dependent upon our ability to manage exposure to increasingly volatile programme and track supplier world energy markets including wholesale commodity prices for gas, oil, risks through robust governance coal, carbon and power.
frameworks to ensure an affordable Integrate security of supply.
The price of gas in the UK market is particularly important for us given that we supply a significant proportion of Britains gas needs.
This position Strategic investment decisions are sets us apart from the other counterparts in the UK market: however, we made within a capital allocation produce less gas from our own resources than we require to meet the framework designed to ensure that Increase demand from the markets we serve.
As the country secures an increasing proposals are rigorously evaluated proportion of gas from abroad, its price and availability will be increasingly prior to acquisition and that they meet Risk shaped by international forces.
Board-approved financial criteria over climate the lifetime of the project.
Shale gas has already transformed the US energy market where an immediate effect has been to lower wholesale gas prices and weaken We continue to selectively invest in the traditional links between gas and oil prices.
The low cost of natural assets around our existing hubs, while gas may present new risks to us as barriers to entry are lowered and managing costs, looking to divest margins tightened requiring cost-efficiency and the development non-core assets, delivering new of innovative products to support them.
projects and purchasing stakes in other assets.
Seasonal variations and, in the short to medium term, economic conditions both in Europe and globally, make it difficult to forecast future energy The gas supply relationships with demand, leading to significant uncertainties around commodity prices Statoil and Gazprom and the new gas and the potential to leave us with a surplus of gas, which would have to agreements signed with Cheniere and be sold back to the wholesale market at a loss.
Qatargas to import LNG, as well as Longer-term commodity price increases or decreases may require us the purchase of additional assets such as the Canadian gas and oil assets to change the price at which we sell energy.
We may not be able to pass through all increases in commodity prices to customers.
If we do pass from Suncor, are examples of how we continue to develop our portfolio, increased commodity prices on, or fail to pass on decreased commodity prices, those customers may seek to switch to competitors.
support North American downstream operations through contractual Commodity price decreases may also reduce upstream gas and oil arrangements rather than asset production profits and over the longer term may make certain exploration ownership and make progress and development projects uneconomic.
In addition, investment decisions accessing new markets and securing particularly in respect of upstream assets are based upon evaluations new sources ofgas.
underpinned by forecasts of longer-term commodity price development.
Assets, including goodwill, may be impaired if discounted future cash flows The Groups estimates of the cost of decommissioning are reviewed from such assets are insufficient to cover their cost on the balance sheet.
periodically and are based on proven If we are unable to successfully manage our exposure to fluctuating and probable reserves, price levels, commodity prices, our competitive position could be negatively impacted the general economic performance and our business, financial condition, reputation and results of operations of each asset and decommissioning could be adversely affected.
The Group also incurs liabilities and costs associated with the decommissioning of oil, gas and storage fields.
Decommissioning costs could exceed the Groups estimated costs and we may be required to provide greater security for these costs than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition.
44 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Arrows show risk climate No change Risk has increased Political and regulatory intervention Strategic what are the risks?
How do we manage theserisks?
The markets in which we operate are already subject to detailed Our Group Business Principles, policy priorities legislation and regulation across different jurisdictions.
This complex framework and corporate responsibility structure is continually evolving and any changes or uncertainty, or framework govern how we conduct ouraffairs.
ineffective or incomplete implementation of any new obligations could We proactively engage with our stakeholders, Innovate adversely affect our current market operations and have adverse including government, legislators and regulators consequences on the viability of investment in new technologies and in order to shape proposals and manage risks.
Risk the development of assets.
Any failure or perceived failure by us Our Corporate Responsibility and supply chain to comply with such developments or related requirements could climate teams work closely with each part of our business have a negative impact on our brands, operations and reputation.
to set and implement policy, strengthen internal The energy industry and markets expect to be subject to increased processes and responsible procurement political scrutiny in the lead-up to the 2015 UK general election.
throughout our third party contracts.
This could result in manifesto pledges that do not translate well into considered policy which in turn could result in sharp fluctuations in investor confidence, an increase in the cost of capital and a reduction in the credit worthiness of energy buyers due to the uncertainty thiscreates.
In the event that Scotland was to become independent following the referendum, some of our upstream assets could be subject to a new fiscal regime.
Our downstream businesses could also be subject to policy and regulatory decisions of an independent Scotland.
While the outcome and impact of this referendum remains uncertain, this could have impacts on our operational and financial results.
Any failure to follow our Group Business Principles of operating professionally, fairly and with integrity, or the public perception that there has been such a failure or other real or perceived failures of governance or regulatory compliance, could further undermine public trust in our business.
This could lead to increased political and regulatory intervention, harm our reputation, damage our consumer brands and adversely affect investor confidence, our business, results of operations and overall financial condition.
Health, safety, environment and security HSES Strategic what are the risks?
There are inherent hazards in our operations, in particular those The management of HSES risk is overseen by priorities relating to oil and gas exploration, production, transportation the Board and Executive Committee and remains and storage and power generation.
This includes non-controlled one of our core priorities with a continued focus interests in organisations with which we contract.
The management across all our assets and operations.
Innovate of these assets is also subject to various laws and regulations.
We undertake regular reviews and independent In addition, our engineers visit customer premises to undertake assessment of the processes in place to manage Risk essential repair and maintenance work on gas and electrical these risks to ensure they remain effective and installations, appliances and plumbing and drain services.
This includes any third parties climate involved in our operations, building strong Security events such as malicious attacks, criminal or activist relationships and supporting local communities activity can also cause disruption to our operations.
We also continue to invest in Failure to manage risks arising from these operations could result training to ensure we maintain safe operating in major injuries and or loss of life, to staff, contractors and or practices in both our upstream and downstream members of the public, significant disruption to production or businesses.
services, damage to our reputation, environmental damage and Security intelligence and operating procedures, loss of shareholder value.
The cost related to the recovery, clean crisis management and business continuity up and or resultant litigation could have a material financial impact.
plans are regularly evaluated and tested to provide assurance to the Board that we are Further information can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Review on page 39 capable of responding positively to any events.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 45 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic growth Strategic what are the risks?
Despite positive signs of recovery in the US and the UK, uncertainty remains We continue to pursue a range of priorities in the global economy and economic and market headwinds impact many investment options across the energy parts of our business.
chain and in different geographies to both deepen our customer In the US, rising consumer confidence is tempered by concerns about Innovate relationships and secure the Groups the Federal Government debt ceiling.
Tightening conditions in our retail future energy requirements.
markets are also putting pressure on energy margins and, in a low and less volatile price environment, the successful delivery of sales targets will be We face competition in each of challenging.
Growth in our North American downstream business will also our businesses and therefore seek Integrate be dependent in part on the successful integration of the Hess Energy to grow demand for our offerings Marketing business.
and differentiate our propositions accordingly.
In the UK, signs of economic recovery notwithstanding, levels of disposable income continue to decline and our markets face potential pressures in the We continue to seek cost-efficiency Increase run-up to the next general election.
through innovation and investment in systems, positioning ourselves Risk Recent announcements across UK political parties have exacerbated to deliver targets whilst maintaining significant uncertainty in the UK energy landscape across power generation, climate a stable platform for investment.
gas storage and energy supply.
This could impact future power, storage and upstream investment and targets, reduce the attractiveness of the UK energy Smart meters, personalised customer supply business and impede the economic viability of proposed initiatives.
energy usage reports, smart tariffs and applications for remote heating A number of emerging technologies and innovations have the potential to be control in UK residential and business disruptive to our business.
In our upstream business, we face competition in markets, alongside the acquisition developing and applying new technology to maximise recovery.
We have to of a leading internet-based digital make unconventional sources of oil and gas economic as well as generating platform in our North American power through low carbon solutions.
services offering, has allowed us to Downstream, UK gas demand is forecast to continue to decline over the create greater visibility and control next decade with the emergence of smart and connected home solutions.
over energy use through continued Electricity demand is forecast to decline by a smaller amount or remain flat.
development of smart and The retail energy environment, reflecting higher commodity and non-commodity connected home solutions.
costs, is highly competitive across residential and business segments as well as energy services, including new business areas, such as smart enabled applications.
As digital media, the internet and mobile devices play a greater role in the retail energy business sector, we could see heightened competitive pressures resulting from falling barriers to market entry and swiftly changing customer loyalties as existing energy and other service providers, such as insurance companies, telecom companies, supermarkets and other large retail companies enter the services market and seek to strengthen their positions.
Climate change, new technologies and global economic conditions may be subject to circumstances beyond our control resulting in an adverse impact on our strategic growth and investment.
All such effects could fail to create shareholder value, meet shareholder expectations and ultimately lead to a loss of investor confidence and a decline in the share price.
46 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information trust and perception Strategic what are the risks?
The energy sector in the UK is currently the subject of unprecedented We are working to deliver a fair, priorities public and political debate and scrutiny against a backdrop of declining simplified and transparent deal to disposable income for many customers.
This is not only raising concern consumers and protect the most for our customers but also damaging investor confidence, increasing the vulnerable, fuel-poor households Innovate prospect of potential further government or regulatory intervention in our through initiatives to improve energy operating markets at a time when substantial investment is required to efficiency or with financial advice Risk secure supplies of energy for the UK in the long term.
The positions taken by political parties and the media in the run-up to We engage with NGOs, consumer climate the 2015 UK general election could also lead to further uncertainty, as and customer groups, political parties, the consensus that existed between them over key questions of energy regulators and other stakeholders to policy has broken down.
understand their views and concerns, working together to identify solutions, Hydraulic fracturing in the UK could cause further adverse publicity as help minimise the impact of higher we explore opportunities for unconventional energy supply and generation costs on bills and improve transparency as part of our businessstrategy.
to help restore trust in the industry.
Customers could also leave if they experience unacceptable customer We actively manage our reputation service levels or if it is perceived that we are failing to maintain service with a number of different stakeholders quality.
This risk could be exacerbated in the current environment where including customers, investors, trust in the industry is at an all-time low.
opinion-formers, employees, the The increased use of social media allows customers and consumer groups media, governments and government to engage in direct action and other campaigns more readily than before.
agencies, other political parties and Any failure to restore trust in the energy industry and markets could lead to regulatory and trade union bodies.
campaigns for corporate change through specific resolutions to direct the Company in a particular manner.
Further information can be found in our International Downstream Operating Review and Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 18 and 39 respectively People Strategic what are the risks?
Cultural and behavioural transformation, ambitious technical-change We continue to evolve a clearly priorities programmes, changes to our current structure including the departure defined people strategy based of senior Group personnel and inadequate trade union relations could on culture and engagement, talent all have adverse consequences, including an impact on employee development, training and reward Innovate engagement.
This may drive issues with attraction and retention not only and recognition, for the ongoing for key roles but also in the wider operational workforce, as well as the success of our business through threat of industrial action in our upstream business operations and regular reviews of organisational engineering workforce in both the UK and North America.
capability, critical business areas, Increase reward strategies for key skills, Any failure in high calibre attraction, retention and succession planning talent management and learning, for key roles could cause business disruption and damage investor Risk development programmes and confidence, which could impact the delivery of the Groups strategy and external benchmarking.
We also climate growth aspirations.
Insufficient capability, capacity and strategy in this area have processes in place during could limit our ability to exploit opportunities and or realise the full value of merger and acquisition integration investments, erode shareholder value, impact the effectiveness of merger activity to ensure the retention of and acquisition integration and harm the employer brand impacting our key roles and complementary talent.
ability to attract and retain key staff.
We engage with trade unions on restructuring and issues that could impact terms and conditions with clear and open processes to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
Additionally, we provide channels for employees to discuss concerns and regularly review the procedures in place to support and encourage whistleblowing.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 47 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Information security Strategic what are the risks?
Our business operations rely on effective and secure information systems We seek to detect and investigate priorities containing a high degree of confidentiality, integrity and availability.
all incidents, aiming to prevent any repetition and regularly interrogate Corporate, governmental and other organisations are targets for malicious the adequacy of our infrastructure, and unauthorised attempts to access information systems.
Our business Innovate IT security controls and datacould be compromised by an incident resulting in the accidental or recovery processes.
deliberate exposure of sensitive data, viral effect of social media channels, inadvertent or deliberate changes to information we are dependent on, Our information security strategy disruptions to business continuity and an online attack that results in loss seeks to integrate information, Increase or exposure of confidential data, intellectual property or control systems.
personnel and physical aspects overseen by a risk group from across Such events could seriously affect our reputation, lead to legal action and or Risk our business.
Collaborative working outages that could cause financial and operational loss.
The US and EU climate groups are also in place across the data privacy proposals increase the implications of such risks materialising, industry and wider.
These measures due to requirements around public notification of any data breach and the allow for controls and responses to be scale of associated fines for non-compliance.
put in place that are both effective and proportionate, whilst recognising the evolving environment they are situatedwithin.
Change management Strategic what are the risks?
The successful delivery of business change is fundamental to our future Change activity is managed through priorities success and includes organisational, cultural and technical transformation.
a combination of project programme Any failure to manage change successfully can adversely affect operational boards and regular review at both objectives, strategic growth, investor confidence and cause financial loss.
a business unit and executive level.
We will be increasingly selective in Innovate The delivery of certain technical change programmes is large and complex.
our investments, directing capital Trying to deliver too much change could result in a stretch on resources, towards the projects offering the undermine system integrity and threaten business continuity, cost more most attractive returns with the or take longer than estimated to implement.
Change programmes could Integrate lowest political risk.
We also have also suffer from quality and safety issues and or the planned benefits a dedicated project management might not be realised.
directorate to improve governance The scale of change in our International Downstream business could of large capital change programmes adversely affect our operations, reputation and financial position if not Increase undertaken in our upstream business.
Changes to billing systems and the implementation We continue to focus on attracting of smart and connected home targets in the UK and the successful Risk and retaining talented employees integration of the Hess Energy Marketing business in North America all need climate to ensure the successful delivery to be managed correctly if we are to achieve expected synergies, continue of our objectives.
to improve our customer service levels and engage in new markets.
As we grow, structures are regularly reviewed to ensure that activities are organised in an effective and efficient way, to keep our cost base as low as possible.
These changes can involve difficult decisions for our employees and there is a risk that industrial relations could worsen.
The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 20 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: GRAnt DAwSOn General Counsel & Company Secretary 20 February 2014 48 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Read here to find out about our standards Governance of governance in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
50 Board of Directors and Senior Executives 52 Corporate Governance Report 63 Directors Report 65 Remuneration Report 83 Independent Auditors Report Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 49
