36 Principal risks and uncertainties As described on pages 59 and 60, the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the three year plan for each business, the most significant health and safety risks identified at each site, and the risk control procedures implemented.
The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board, and through this process, the Board has identified the following principal risks currently facing the Group.
The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address these risks are also set out below.
The Group also mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS The Board believes that responsibility for the delivery of world class safety Health and safety risks standards is an integral part of operational management accountability, The Groups operations which utilise energetic and is committed to ensuring that the Groups leadership operates with materials are subject to inherent health and health and safety as the top priority and that the strength of the Group's safety risks.
From time to time, incidents may safety culture and the quality of its protective systems deliver operations occur which could result in the temporary where all employees and visitors feel and are absolutely safe.
A new shutdown of facilities or other disruption to safety leadership programme has been developed this year, which will be manufacturing processes, causing production attended by the management teams of every business during 2014. delays and resulting in financial loss and potential liability for workplace injuries and All employees now receive a booklet setting out the Groups statements fatalities.
of intent in relation to delivery of its health and safety strategy and the behaviours required of them as individual employees.
All employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns through the appropriate channels.
The Group continues to invest in stateoftheart process safety systems and equipment.
The Group's safety and loss prevention programmes require detailed preconstruction reviews of process changes and new operations, and routine safety audits of operations are undertaken on a regular basis.
All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but, in addition, the top site risks at each business and their associated mitigation programmes are reviewed quarterly by the Risk Management Committee.
Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting, and is discussed at the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety are set out in the corporate responsibility review.
In recognition of the issues affecting the Group's traditional NATO Possible defence budget cuts markets, business development activities are being focused on Defence spending depends on a complex mix of nonNATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to grow political considerations, budgetary constraints strongly over the next five to ten years.
The Group has made good and the requirements of the armed forces to progress on developing its routes to market in India, Saudi Arabia, the address specific threats and perform certain United Arab Emirates and Brazil.
As such, defence spending may be subject to significant fluctuations from year The Group has established a more focused international sales and to year.
Given the large budget deficits and business development team, and has implemented new processes the prevailing economic conditions in many to ensure that the businesses are successful in winning every sales NATO countries, the Group expects there to be opportunity.
continued downward pressure on budgets, and consequently, defence expenditure could be The Group also continually assesses whether its planned organic growth severely impacted.
strategies and product developments align with government priorities for future funding.
Most product development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and this gives the Group the ability to quickly redeploy engineering staff to product areas where funding is more secure.
The Group continues to closely monitor the position in all the key markets in which it operates.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 37 RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS As referred to above, the Group is focusing on the expansion of its Timing and value of orders business in nonNATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to The Groups profits and cash flows are increase.
dependent, to a significant extent, on the timing of award of defence contracts.
In general, Maximising order intake remains a key objective for the businesses, and the majority of the Groups contracts are of a they continue to address this through the strengthening of their sales relatively short duration and, with the exception and marketing resources.
The businesses also continue to pursue of framework contracts with key customers, do longterm, multiyear contracts with their major customers wherever not usually cover multiyear requirements.
means that an unmitigated delay in the receipt of orders could affect the Group's earnings and The Group has undertaken various restructuring projects over the last achievement of its budget, in any given financial year, which were aimed at restoring the profitability of those Group year.
businesses which have suffered most from order delays in recent times.
The Group anticipates that delays in the Site optimisation plans are now being developed to ensure that the placement of orders by traditional NATO Group utilises its manufacturing facilities as efficiently as possible, within customers, as a result of budgetary constraints, the constraints imposed by export control legislation and customer are likely to continue in the short to medium requirements.
If the Group's businesses are unable to continue trading profitably during periods of lower order intake, financial performance will deteriorate and assets may be impaired.
The Group's businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels Political risks within the political structure of certain key countries, in order to ensure The Group is active in several countries that are that they are aware of and can react to proposed changes, if and when suffering from political, social and economic they occur.
The Group's business in these countries may be adversely affected in a way The businesses implement financing arrangements for contracts that is material to the Groups financial position with high risk customers, which are intended to mitigate the impact and the results of its operations.
of a deterioration in the customers financial position, and in certain circumstances, they may also procure political risks insurance.
In addition, political unrest and changes in the political structure in certain nonNATO countries The Group is exploring opportunities for collaboration on the to which the Group currently sells could impact establishment of local manufacturing operations in certain countries, on their future defence expenditure strategy and which will remove some of the uncertainty regarding export of products.
the Group's ability to export products to these countries.
The planned expansion in nondefence markets should also increase the Group's portfolio of products which are less sensitive from an export During periods of unrest, delays in obtaining control perspective.
export licences can result in delayed revenues.
All of the Group's businesses are required to prepare business continuity Operational risks plans.
The Group's manufacturing activities may be exposed to business continuity risks, arising The Group has introduced new requirements in relation to the reporting from plant failures, supplier interruptions or of key performance indicators this year, in order to provide better quality issues.
These could result in financial visibility on operational performance and to facilitate the identification of loss, reputational damage and loss of future potential production and quality issues at an early stage.
The Group insures certain business interruption risks where appropriate.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 38 Principal risks and uncertainties RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS The Group has introduced a more focused product development and Introduction of new products technology investment approach, in order to ensure that resources are The Groups approach to innovation and applied appropriately across the Group in support of the three year plan.
continued emphasis on research and A Technology Review Board has been established to review all proposed development activity ensures that it is research and development projects to ensure that key initiatives are continually adding new products to the being prioritised and to eliminate possible duplication of effort in range.
There is a need to ensure that this different parts of the Group.
new product development is completed in a timely manner, and to a standard which allows Working groups have been established to drive and coordinate the volume manufacturing to be undertaken Group's technology growth in certain key areas, such as cyber security.
and the production of products against high reliability and safety criteria to meet customers requirements.
Failure to achieve this may have both financial and reputational impacts.
The Group also needs to ensure that it continues to upgrade its existing product range to compete with emerging technologies, and to avoid the risk of obsolescence or loss of business.
The businesses maintain rigorous control of their production processes, Product liability and other monitoring critical parameters on a batch or unit basis.
Stateoftheart customer claims techniques, including statistical process control or Six Sigma, are applied The Group may be subject to product liability and and, where appropriate, processes are automated to reduce the scope other claims from customers or third parties, for human operator error.
Detailed assessments of incoming components in connection with i the noncompliance of and materials are conducted to ensure compliance with specifications.
these products or services with the customers requirements, due to faults in design or Product liability claims from third parties for damage to property or production: ii the delay or failed supply of persons are generally covered by the Groups insurance policies, subject the products or the services indicated in the to applicable insurance conditions.
contract: or iii possible malfunction or misuse of products.
As many of the Groups products are singleuse devices, it is often impossible to conduct functional testing without destroying the product, and this increases the risk of possible product failure, either in use or during customers own samplebased functional tests.
Substantial claims could harm the Groups business and its financial position.
In addition, any accident, failure, incident or liability, even if fully insured, could negatively affect the Groups reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for the Group to compete effectively.
Material breaches in the performance of contractual obligations may also lead to contract termination and the calling of performance bonds.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 39 RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS A Group Human Resources Director was appointed during 2013, to Management resource oversee the future people strategy.
The Group requires competent management to lead it through the next stage of its The Group has introduced a new performance management system for development.
In challenging markets and 2014, which will facilitate improved monitoring of individual employees difficult times, there is a need to retain and development objectives and requirements.
Alongside this, a talent incentivise senior managers and key employees, database is being developed, which will provide improved visibility on in order to ensure that the operations of the skills and resources across the Group, and will open up opportunities for Group do not suffer from loss of management employees to progress their careers within different parts of the Group.
Incentivisation arrangements have been streamlined and improved in As the shape of the Groups business also certain areas of the business, to ensure that employees are suitably changes, with an increased focus on electronics, incentivised to deliver key strategic objectives.
there is a need to ensure that the businesses build an appropriate skill base to enable them to compete successfully in new markets and product areas.
The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and Compliance and corruption risks monitors all Group businesses, supported by dedicated internal legal The Group operates in over sixty countries resource in the US.
The Groups internal audit activities also incorporate worldwide, in a highlyregulated environment, a review of legal risks.
and is subject to the applicable laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions.
The The Group operates under a Global Code of Business Principles, which Group must ensure that all of its businesses, its stipulates the standard of acceptable business conduct required from all employees and third parties providing services employees and third parties acting on the Group's behalf.
The Group has on its behalf comply with all relevant legal also adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, incorporating all of its obligations, as noncompliance could result in antibribery policies and procedures.
administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and could expose the Group to fines, penalties, A significant proportion of the Groups management have received suspension or debarment, and reputational training in relation to ethics and anticorruption.
The nature of the Groups operations could also expose it to government investigations relating to importexport controls, moneylaundering, false accounting, and corruption or bribery.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 40 Principal risks and uncertainties RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS All of the Groups businesses are certified to the environmental Environmental laws and management system ISO14001, which requires the setting of regulations environmental goals and objectives focused on local aspects and The Groups operations and ownership or use impacts.
of real property is subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws The Group has managed monitoring and remediation programmes at and regulations, including those relating to certain sites, for which appropriate financial provision has been made.
discharge of hazardous materials, remediation In certain circumstances, the Group procures environmental liability of contaminated sites, and restoration of insurance, subject to applicable insurance conditions.
At certain sites that the Group owns or operates, or formerly owned or operated, there is known or potential contamination for which there is a requirement to remediate or provide resource restoration.
The Group could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs, resource restoration costs, fines and penalties, or be exposed to thirdparty property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of liabilities associated with past practices or violations of environmental laws or noncompliance with environmental permits.
financial risks Details of the financial risks to which the Group is potentially exposed and details of mitigating factors are set out in the financial review and note 24 of the group financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
