undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: mAnAgIng RISK In dELIvERIng ouR STRATEgY managIng rIsk In delIverIng our strategy At British Land, we take the view that our assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our strategy and our embedded risk management is fundamental to its delivery.
our integrated approach combines a topdown strategic view with a complementary bottomup operational process.
RIsk goveRnAnCe ouR APPRoACH To RIsk mAnAgemenT The Board takes overall responsibility for The topdown approach involves a review of risk management with a particular focus the external environment in which we operate on determining the nature and extent of to determine the level of risk which we are significant risks it is willing to take in achieving comfortable exposing the business to in pursuit of our performance objectives this is our its strategic objectives.
The Audit Committee risk appetite.
This evaluation frames the takes responsibility for overseeing the This year we formalised determination of our strategy and the actions effectiveness of sound risk management our risk focus by establishing which underpin its execution.
key risk and internal control systems.
indicators KRIs have been identified for each the Risk Committee of our principal risks and uncertainties and The Executive directors are responsible which oversees delivery are used to monitor our risk exposure on an for delivering the Companys strategy and ongoing basis to ensure that the activities managing operational risk and a Risk of our strategy through of the business remain within agreed risk Committee has been established during an evaluation of external appetite tolerances.
the year to provide a forum to fulfil these responsibilities.
This Committee has risks as well as monitoring The bottomup approach involves identification, overseen the formalisation of many of our internal risks which we management and monitoring of risks in each risk management processes in the year.
area of our business meaning that risk can control.
We concentrate management is embedded in our everyday The directors in turn place reliance on their on identifying emerging operations.
Control of this process is provided teams to monitor and manage operational through maintenance of risk registers in each risks on an ongoing basis, as well as risks at an early stage so area.
These risk registers are aggregated and identifying emerging risks.
The risk registers we can adapt and respond reviewed by the Risk Committee, with significant provide a framework for all staff to feed and emerging risks escalated for Board into this process, recognising their shared appropriately before our consideration as appropriate.
responsibility for effective management performance is adversely of risk in delivering our strategy.
This process complements the topdown view impacted.
by informing the identification of our principal risks and uncertainties, ensuring that LuCIndA BeLL operational risks are fully considered in Finance director AssessIng RIsk In determining the risk appetite and the InvesTmenT deCIsIons corresponding strategy of the business.
Execution of our chosen investment strategy comprises a series of individual investment Those principal risks and uncertainties are decisions including purchases, sales detailed in the table that follows.
Evaluation of risk is includes an indication of the most significant fundamental to each decision and includes links between each of our internal risks and consideration of both qualitative and our strategic priorities.
during the year we enhanced our evaluation of risk adjusted returns of investment opportunities by using scenario modelling tools to consider a range of possible outcomes and associated likelihoods.
This provides a rigorous basis for comparing investment opportunities.
42 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: mAnAgIng RISK In dELIvERIng ouR STRATEgY RISK mAnAgEmEnT AT A gLAnCE The diagram below summarises the complementary topdown and bottomup aspects of our integrated approach to risk management.
TOP-DOWN BOTTOM-UP STRATEGIC RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT Review external environment Assess effectiveness Set risk appetite of risk and parameters Board and management systems Audit Committee Determine strategic Report principal action points risks and uncertainties Direct delivery of Consider completeness strategic actions of identified risks Risk Committee and adequacy of Monitor key risk indicators Executive Directors mitigating actions Consider aggregation of risk exposures across the business Execute strategic actions Report priority and emerging risks Report on Business Units key risk indicators Identify, evaluate, prioritise, mitigate and monitor operational risks recorded in risk register directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
