undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: PRInCIPAL RISKS And unCERTAInTIES As detailed on pages 38 and 39, managing prIncIpal rIsks our environmental and social impacts is central to how we do business and deliver and uncertaIntIes value to shareholders.
To reflect this, rather than reporting environmental and social factors separately, we have integrated them within the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures which follow, as indicated by these environmental and social icons.
external rIsks RIsks And ImPACTs HoW We mAnAge THe RIsk movemenT In THe PeRIod eConomIC unCeRTAInTy A review of the economic environment T he political will demonstrated Continued economic uncertainty and is a standing agenda item for the Risk in the year to preserving the euro subdued levels of economic growth in the Committee and is supported by review indicates a lower risk of financial market uK, the Eurozone and further afield present of key economic data including leading dislocation from a Eurozone break up.
risks to financing and property markets indicators.
We are guided by this in Relative to historic norms, the risk of as well as the businesses of our occupiers.
determining our strategy and remain economic shocks remains elevated and alert to observed or anticipated the outlook for economic growth is changes, evolving our strategy and subdued both in the uK and abroad but its implementation accordingly.
continuing expansionary monetary policy our direct exposure to Eurozone accompanied by increasing levels of economies remains limited, representing guidance has seen borrowing costs drop less than 3% of the portfolio.
to new lows, buoying investor confidence evidenced by strong stock market performance over the period.
CommeRCIAL PRoPeRTy A review of the property investment T he status of the uK, and InvesToR demAnd market is a standing agenda item for the particularly London, as an Reduction in investor demand for uK Risk Committee and is supported by investment safehaven at this time of commercial property may result in falls review of key market data including leading heightened economic uncertainty has in asset valuations and could arise from indicators.
We are guided by this in translated to a high level of investor demand, variations in: determining our strategy and remain alert including a large international element and health of the uK economy: to observed or anticipated changes, increasing appetite for property investment attractiveness of investment in the uK: evolving our strategy and its from sovereign wealth funds and other availability of finance: and implementation accordingly.
relative attractiveness of other asset We maintain a focus on those sectors This interest is, however, highly selective classes.
which we consider to be most resilient to and largely focused on the prime end of the variations in investor demand, investment spectrum.
Consistent with underpinned by longterm committed anticipated polarisation of the investment lease income.
market, demand for weaker assets continues to diminish reflecting the accelerating obsolescence of some sectors and locations and poor occupier trading performance.
AvAILABILITy And CosT oF FInAnCe Benchmark borrowing rates and other one key dynamic in real estate Reduced availability of real estate financing indicators are monitored by funding is the continuing rebalancing financing may adversely impact British the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis of banks real estate exposure resulting in Lands ability to refinance facilities and to guide financing strategy.
significant deleveraging, exacerbated by result in weaker investor demand for We maintain strong relationships with increasing regulation and capital requirements.
our key financing partners and advisers Increasing finance costs would reduce to maintain an awareness of financing Those real estate investors who have British Lands underlying profits.
maintained strong balance sheets, strong We maintain a diverse range of sources relationships with financing partners and of finance to provide flexibility to access access to capital markets continue to funding as required.
experience good availability of finance We closely monitor relevant emerging demonstrated by the high volume of bank banking regulation e. g. Basel III, Slotting and capital market financing transactions working with industry bodies and other concluded in the year by leading REITs.
relevant organisations to understand the implications for the commercial real Benchmark borrowing rates have remained at estate industry and participate in the historic lows and are not expected to increase debate where our interests are affected.
in the shortterm although swap rates point to an increase in the mediumterm.
44 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: PRInCIPAL RISKS And unCERTAInTIES key CHAngE FRom LAST YEAR Risk exposure has increased Risk exposure has reduced no significant change in risk exposure external rIsks contInued RIsks And ImPACTs HoW We mAnAge THe RIsk movemenT In THe PeRIod oCCuPIeR demAnd And TenAnT deFAuLT A review of the property occupier market Fa ilures of retailers who have not underlying income, rental growth and is a standing agenda item for the Risk been able to keep pace with evolving capital performance could be adversely Committee, supported by review of key consumer demands remain a feature affected by weakening occupier demand market data, to guide determination of the retail landscape.
A number of these resulting from variations in health of our strategy and its implementation.
occupiers operated from properties of the uK economy and corresponding We have a Key occupier Account such as ours.
mindful of this, we remain weakening of consumer confidence programme through which we work committed to providing destinations and business activity and investment.
together with our occupiers to find ways which enable occupiers to meet shoppers occupier failures may adversely impact to best meet their evolving requirements.
changing behaviours and focused on underlying income and capital We perform rigorous occupier covenant engaging with those occupiers who are performance.
checks and review these on an ongoing best placed to respond to these changes.
Changing consumer and business basis so that we can be proactive in practices e. g. internet shopping, flexible managing exposure to weaker occupiers.
Widespread changes to the operating and working practices and demand for energy We are constantly assessing how best financing models being employed in the efficient buildings, new technologies, to futureproof our buildings and maintain banking sector in response to the recent new legislation and alternative locations Sustainability Briefs across the investment financial crisis and subsequent regulation may result in earlier than anticipated portfolio as well as on acquisitions and have depressed demand from this sector.
obsolescence of our buildings if evolving developments.
demand from other sectors such as occupier and regulatory requirements British Land prides itself on taking insurance and TmT has increased however are not met.
a leadership position on defining and and we are working hard to consider responding to environmental legislation how best to engage with and meet the impacting the built environment.
All our requirements of these occupiers.
office developments are BREEAm Excellent and our major retail developments BREEAm very good or Excellent.
In our existing buildings we have delivered a 38% landlordinfluenced energy reduction, towards our 40% reduction target by 2015.
We are assessing our exposure to the anticipated minimum Energy Performance Standards arising from the Energy Act 2011, so we can address any issues that arise as a result of this before 2018.
CATAsTRoPHIC BusIness evenT Asset risk assessments T he evaluation of the likely impact An external event such as a civil e. g. security, flood, environmental, of this risk on the performance of emergency, including a large scale health and safety.
the group has not changed since the prior terrorist attack, extreme weather Regular security threat information year.
The Home office threat level from occurrence or environmental disaster service.
could severely disrupt global markets Physical security measures at properties including property and finance and cause and development sites.
significant damage and disruption to Asset emergency procedures reviewed British Lands portfolio and operations.
Head office business continuity plan in place and regularly tested.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: PRInCIPAL RISKS And unCERTAInTIES prIncIpal rIsks and uncertaIntIes contInued Internal rIsks RIsks And ImPACTs HoW We mAnAge THe RIsk movemenT In THe PeRIod InvesTmenT sTRATegy our investment strategy is determined to C hris grigg commented, Responsible executive: Chris grigg be consistent with our target risk appetite These results show that the based on the evaluation of the external longterm decisions that we have taken In order to meet our strategic objectives environment.
in determining the investment strategy we must invest in and exit from the right Progress against the strategy and and the shortterm actions we have taken properties at the right time.
continuing alignment with our risk appetite in executing it are delivering outperformance.
is monitored at each Risk Committee by We were pleased to be able to conclude Significant underperformance could reviewing relevant indicators including a number of significant transactions in the result from inappropriate determination comparison of forecast portfolio returns year, including the acquisitions of the Clarges and execution of our property investment against the IPd benchmark.
Estate and the Ealing Broadway Shopping strategy, including: Individual investment decisions are Centre which leveraged British Lands sector selection and weighting: subject to robust risk evaluation overseen relationships and ability to execute complex timing of investment and divestment by our Investment Committee including deals rapidly.
decisions: consideration of risk adjusted returns exposure to developments: relative to internal hurdle rates.
For more on our markets, our strategy sector, asset, tenant, region concentration: We foster collaborative relationships with and the actions we are taking to implement and our coinvestors and enter into ownership this, see pages 12 to 27. coinvestment arrangements.
agreements which balance the interests of the parties.
deveLoPmenT We maintain our levels of total and T im Roberts commented, Responsible executives: speculative development exposure We have made great progress Charles maudsley, Tim Roberts within a target range taking into account on our committed development programme associated risks and the impact on key in the year.
The risk profile has reduced with development provides an opportunity financial metrics.
further prelets at The Leadenhall Building, for outperformance but this brings with For each project we make a judgement nEQ and 10 Portman Square meaning that it elevated risk.
The care with which we about apportionment of construction risk.
the London committed programme is now make our decisions around which schemes Where we retain this risk we fix costs early 61% prelet or under offer.
In addition 98% to develop when, as well as our execution in the process, subject to other market of our costs are now fixed.
We remain alert of these projects, must reflect this.
factors, with key contractors subject to risks over the remaining life of these to financial covenant review.
developments including the outstanding development risks could adversely impact Prelets are employed to strategically letting requirement and are turning underlying income and capital performance derisk the development letting profile.
our attention to replenishing our including: We actively engage with the development pipeline.
development letting exposure: communities in which we operate, as construction timing and costs: and detailed in our Community Charter, to For more on our development programme, adverse planning judgements.
ensure that our development activities see pages 20 to 23, 34 and 35. consider the interests of all stakeholders.
CAPITAL sTRuCTuRe geARIng We set a target gearing range to reflect the L ucinda Bell commented, We have Responsible executive: Lucinda Bell strength of our portfolio and cash flows, been successful in managing our management of our debt book and our LTv within our target range this year, through We must maintain a capital structure which refinancing risk.
We manage gearing with a period of extensive capital markets, recognises the balance between reference to the property valuation cycle.
As a performance, risk and flexibility.
We manage our investment activity, which result of the equity issue in march our LTv can be lumpy, as well as our development is currently at the lower end of the range.
gearing provides the capacity for commitments to ensure that we will outperformance but also magnifies the remain within an appropriate range of LTv.
For more on our financial policies and impact of underperformance.
Covenant headroom and LTv, both principles, see pages 69 to 73.
An increase in the gearing level increases absolute and relative to the cycle, are the risk of a breach of financing covenants monitored quarterly by the Risk and may increase borrowing costs.
46 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: PRInCIPAL RISKS And unCERTAInTIES key CHAngE FRom LAST YEAR STRATEgIC PRIoRITIES Risk exposure has increased grow income grow value Risk exposure has reduced Incremental value use scale to our advantage no significant change in risk exposure spend wisely A great place to work Internal rIsks contInued RIsks And ImPACTs HoW We mAnAge THe RIsk movemenT In THe PeRIod InCome susTAInABILITy We undertake comprehensive profit C harles maudsley commented, Responsible executives: and cash flow forecasting incorporating The strength of our Retail Charles maudsley, Tim Roberts scenario analysis to model the impact portfolio and the steps we are taking of proposed transactions.
to ensure that we continue to meet the We must be mindful of maintaining We perform rigorous occupier covenant changing needs of our occupiers and their sustainable income streams in order checks and review these on an ongoing customers means that we are well placed to continue to generate returns for our basis so that we can be proactive in in a challenging trading environment.
shareholders and provide the platform managing exposure to weaker occupiers.
from which to grow the business through We are proactive in addressing key lease Tim Roberts commented, our proactive development and capital appreciation.
breaks and expiries to minimise periods approach to addressing the risks of upcoming of vacancy.
lease events and the strong relationships we We are required to consider sustainability We actively engage with the have with our occupiers have served us well of our income streams in: communities in which we operate, as this year.
This was particularly notable in the execution of investment strategy and detailed in our Community Charter.
lease extensions that we agreed with our capital recycling, notably timing of key occupiers Herbert Smith and ICAP on the reinvestment of sale proceeds: Broadgate Estate.
nature and structure of leasing activity: and nature and timing of asset management For more on how we manage our portfolio, and development activity.
LIQuIdITy We have five key principles guiding the L ucinda Bell commented, Against Responsible executive: Lucinda Bell financing of the group which together a backdrop of banks retrenching are employed to manage the risks in this in terms of their real estate lending exposure, We must be judicious in the management area: diversifying our sources of finance, we have taken advantage of our strong of our financing as our strategy here maintain liquidity, extend and stretch balance sheet, relationships and track record addresses risks both to our continuing maturity of debt portfolio, maintain to deliver 1.2 billion of new financing for going concern and the stability of our flexibility and maintain strong balance and on behalf of British Land and its co profits.
This included our 400 million We are committed to maintaining and convertible bond in September 2012, a new Failure to manage the refinancing enhancing relationships with our key source of financing adding to the diversity requirement may result in a shortage of financing partners.
of our funding, alongside 0.4 billion of new funds to sustain the operations of the We closely monitor relevant emerging unsecured bank facilities and 0.4 billion business or repay facilities as they fall due.
regulation which has the potential to of secured loans from banks and insurers.
impact the way that we finance the group This activity in combination with our equity This and a breach of financing covenant and to introduce other operating placing in march provides the capacity to limits, are considered to be the most constraints e. g. AIFmd, EmIR.
significant risks to the continuing operation other regulatory and public affairs of British Land as a going concern.
matters which impact us, we engage For more on our financial policies and See page 85 for further consideration with government and other industry principles, see pages 69 to 73. of going concern.
participants to influence the debate.
PeoPLe We regularly review succession C hris grigg commented, We are Responsible executive: Chris grigg planning for key roles and act promptly committed to making British Land to address any exposures identified.
a great place to work for all of our staff.
We our people are one of our major assets.
We regularly benchmark director and challenge our staff, through the appraisal It is their decisions and actions that drive employee remuneration and incentives process, to identify their own development the returns of the business.
with an appropriate peer group.
needs and work with them to provide We are committed to our performance solutions.
As our staff develop and broaden Failure to recruit, develop and retain staff appraisal process, conduct an annual their experience and skills, all of our and directors with the right skills and employee survey and closely monitor stakeholders benefit from improved experience may result in significant staff turnover.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
