RISK MANAGEMENT The Board recognises that risk is an inherent part of running a business and, whilst it aims to maximise returns, the associated risks must be understood and managed.
BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls AUDIT COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Responsible for financial Responsible for non-financial Prepares the Groups internal controls internal controls risk register Monitors and reviews Monitors and reviews the Reviews the operation the external audit Groups risk register of key controls process and reports SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Provides input to Committees review processes Whilst overall responsibility for the risk management process the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring and the rests with the Board it has delegated responsibility for strength of the controls in place.
This approach allows the assurance to the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
effect of any mitigating procedures to be reflected in the final Executive management is responsible for designing, assessment.
It also recognises that risk cannot be totally implementing and maintaining the necessary systems eliminated at an acceptable cost and that there are some risks of internal control.
which, with its experience and after due consideration, the Board will choose to accept.
The Group operates principally from one central London office with relatively short management reporting lines.
Consequently, The register, its method of preparation and the operation of members of the Executive Committee are closely involved in the key controls in the Groups system of internal control, are day-to-day matters and able to identify areas of increasing risk reviewed throughout the year by the Risk Committee which quickly and respond accordingly.
periodically receives presentations from senior management to gain a more in-depth understanding of the control environment A key element in the system of internal controls is the Groups in certain areas of the business.
The register was updated risk register which is reviewed formally by the Board once a between December 2013 and February 2014 and includes year.
During 2013, the Groups processes for preparing the risk 42 risks spread between strategic risks, operational risks register and reporting the results both internally and externally and financial risks.
were reviewed by a third party.
Whilst no major points were identified a number of recommendations were made which were implemented in preparing the register this year.
The register is prepared by the members of the Executive Committee who, having identified the risks, collectively assess 28 Strategic report These graphs show the probability and impact for our main risks 2013 major risks together with the changes in the assessment of the risks since High 2012.
These movements are also split between the three risk categories and the third graph details the movement in the overall risk by category over the past five years.
6 The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces in 2014, together with the controls and mitigating factors, are set out on the 7 5 following pages.
For more information 2 see pages 111 and 150 9 8 1 3 4 Low Impact High 5 4 3 2 1 0 Increased Broadly Decreased unchanged Operational Strategic Financial Average risk by category High As risk management continues to move up the business agenda, the activity of the Risk Committee has become more important and increasingly embedded in the Groups activities.
ROBERT RAYNE CHAIRMAN Low 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Strategic Operational Finance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 29 Average risk score Probability RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Strategic risks That the Groups strategy does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 1.
Inconsistent strategy The Group carries out a five-year strategic The last annual strategic review was The Groups strategy is inconsistent with the review each year and also prepares an carried out by the Board in June 2013. state of the market in which it operates.
annual budget and three rolling forecasts This considered the sensitivity of six key which cover the next two years.
In the measures to changes in underlying 2.
Inconsistent development programme course of preparing these documents the assumptions including interest rates and The Groups development programme is not Board considers the effect on the Groups borrowing margins, timing of projects, level consistent with the economic cycle.
KPIs and key ratios caused by changing of capital expenditure and capital recycling.
the main underlying assumptions to reflect The Group currently benefits from a strong The three rolling forecasts prepared during different economic scenarios.
central London market which could be the year focus on the same key measures adversely affected by a number of high The Groups plans can then be set so as but consider the effect of varying different level economic factors.
This would reduce to best realise its long-term strategic goals assumptions to reflect changing economic the value of the Groups portfolio with a given the expected economic and market and market conditions.
consequent effect on two of its KPIs conditions.
This flexibility arises from the policy total return and total property return.
The timing of the Groups development of maintaining income from properties for as programme and the strategies for individual long as possible until development starts.
The Board sees the level of these risks as properties reflect the outcome of these broadly unchanged from last year.
Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has considerations.
been identified for future redevelopment.
During the year the Groups loan-to-value This enables the Board to delay marginal ratio remained below 30%, its net interest projects until market conditions cover ratio was above 250% and the REIT are favourable.
The risks remain significant and therefore in forming its plans the Board pays particular attention to maintaining sufficient headroom in all the Groups key ratios, financial covenants and interest cover.
Regulatory non-compliance The Groups Risk Committee reports to The Risk Committee receives an annual The Groups cost base is increased and the Board concerning regulatory risk.
report from the Groups legal advisors which management time diverted through a breach identifies the expected legislative changes The Group employs a Health and of any of the legislation that forms the for the next 12 months.
regulatory framework within which the A Health and Safety report is presented Group operates.
The Group employs a sustainability at all Executive Committee and main manager who reports to the sustainability An increase in costs would directly impact Board meetings.
committee which is chaired by Paul Williams.
on the Groups total return KPI.
A significant The Executive Committee receives regular diversion of management time could affect The Companys policies including those reports from the sustainability manager.
a wider range of key metrics.
on the Bribery Act, Health and Safety, Equal Opportunities, Harassment and The Group pays considerable attention This risk is seen to have increased over Whistleblowing are available to all staff to sustainability issues and produces the year due to the increased scale of the on the Company intranet.
legislative and regulatory environment and the number frequency of changes made to the legislative and regulatory framework.
Reputational damage All new members of staff benefit from an The Group employs a Head of Investor The Groups reputation is damaged induction programme and are issued with Relations and retains the services of an through unauthorised and inaccurate the Groups Staff Handbook.
Both maintain regular media coverage.
contact with external media sources.
Social media channels are monitored.
This risk would most directly impact on The Group engages with a number of local The Group takes advice on technological the Groups total shareholder return community bodies in areas where it changes in the use of media and adapts its one of its key metrics.
Indirectly it could operates as part of its CSR activity.
impact on a number of the formal KPIs.
There is an agreed procedure for approving The Board considers the risk to have all external statements.
increased over the year because it considers that the importance of the Groups reputation brand has risen.
30 Strategic report Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 5.
Higher interest rates The Group uses interest rate derivatives During the year the Group terminated two Financing costs are higher due to increases to top-up the amount of fixed rate debt interest rate swaps which were at historic in interest rates.
to a level commensurate with the perceived rates and initiated new instruments which risk to the Group.
have locked in the lower long-term rates that This risk would affect the Groups interest are currently available.
83% of borrowings were fixed or hedged at The Board sees this risk as unchanged the year end.
Additional 15 and 20-year fixed rate debt was put in place in January 2014.
Increase in interest rates The impact of such changes on the Groups The Group produces three rolling forecasts Increases in interest rates can lead financial covenants and performance are each year which contain detailed sensitivity to higher property yields which cause monitored regularly and are subject to analyses.
sensitivity analysis to ensure that adequate Quarterly management accounts report on headroom is preserved.
This would affect the following KPIs: the Groups performance against covenants The impact of potential yield changes and ratios.
is considered when future projects Total return.
Project appraisals are regularly reviewed are appraised.
Interest rates have remained low for an Changes to the Groups financing profile extended period of time and yields are over the year has simplified the management at or near historical lows.
With the UKs of its financial covenants.
improving economic background, gilt rates have already risen and a base rate rise is likely within the next two years.
Though there is no direct relationship, this may cause property yields to soften in due course and therefore the Board considers this risk to have increased over the year.
Key Risk increase Risk unchanged Risk decrease Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 31 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Operational risks The Group suffers either a loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 7.
Reduced development returns Standardised appraisals including The Group is advised by top planning The Groups development projects do not contingencies are prepared for all consultants and has considerable in-house produce the anticipated financial return due investments and sensitivity analysis is planning expertise.
to one or more of the following factors: undertaken to ensure that an adequate Executive Directors represent the Group on return is made in all circumstances Delays in the planning process.
a number of local bodies which ensures that considered likely to occur.
Delays due to contractors it remains aware of local issues.
The scale of the Groups development The procurement process used by the Increased construction costs.
programme is managed to reflect anticipated Group includes the use of highly regarded Adverse letting conditions.
firms of quantity surveyors and is designed This would have an effect on the Groups Regular cost reports are produced for the to minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
total return and total property return KPIs.
Executive Committee and the Board that Development costs are benchmarked monitor progress of actual expenditure Taken as a whole the Board considers to ensure that the Group obtains against budget.
This allows potential this risk to have increased since last year.
adverse variances to be identified and This reflects that the scale of the Groups addressed at an early stage.
The Groups style of accommodation development programme and, therefore, remains in demand as evidenced by the its influence on the Groups results Post completion reviews are carried out 67 lettings achieved in 2013 which totalled has increased.
for all major developments to ensure that 643,200 sq ft. improvements to the Groups procedures are identified and implemented.
The Group has secured significant pre-lets of the space in its current development Alternative procurement methods are being programme which significantly fide-risks evaluated as a way of minimising the effect these projects.
Tenant default All prospective tenants are considered The Group has a diversified tenant base The Group suffers a loss of rental income by the Groups Credit Committee and see pages 12 and 13. and increased vacant property costs due security is taken where appropriate either The Credit Committee meets each week to tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
in the form of parent company guarantees and considered 103 potential tenants during or rent deposits.
This risk would have an immediate effect the year.
on the Groups tenant receipts and void The Groups property managers maintain In total the Group holds rental deposits management KPIs and, if significant, regular contact with tenants and work amounting to 11.2m.
on the total property return, total return closely with any that are facing financial and interest cover ratio.
On average during the year, the Group has collected 98% of the rents due within The Board considers this risk to have The Groups Credit Committee regularly 14 days of the due date.
decreased over the last year due to very reviews a list of slow payers and considers low historic default levels, the increased what actions should be taken.
diversity of tenants and the healthier outlook for the UK economy.
Shortage of key staff The remuneration packages of all The Group recruited 10 new members The Group is unable to successfully employees are benchmarked regularly.
The key appointment implement its strategy due to a failure of a sustainability manager was made in Six-monthly appraisals identify training to recruit and retain key staff with January 2013. requirements which are fulfilled over the appropriate skills.
Staff turnover during 2013 was low at 6% This risk could impact on any of the 7% including retirees.
The Nominations Committee considers Groups KPIs.
succession matters as a standard The risk is seen as unchanged over the year.
