James Fisher and Sons plc Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management framework The Board is ultimately responsible for the management implementing policies at corporate, divisional and business of risk in the Group.
The Board determines the Groups unit level.
Each operating unit is required to operate policies on risk, appetite for risk and levels of risk tolerance within this control environment and in accordance with and specifically approves: risk management policies established policies and procedures which include ethical, and plans: significant insurance and or legal claims and anti-bribery and corruption, treasury, employment, health or settlements: major acquisitions, disposals and capital and safety and environmental issues.
The Board retains an expenditures: and the Group Budget, Forecast and Three oversight role and has a schedule of matters specifically Year Plan.
The Board has put in place a documented reserved to it for decision thus ensuring that it maintains full organisational structure with strictly defined limits of and effective control over appropriate strategic, investment, authority from the Board to operating units that have been financial, organisational and compliance issues.
This schedule communicated throughout the businesses and are well is subject to review by the Board on an annual basis.
understood by the Executive Directors, the management team and business leaders who have delegated authority A list of the principal risks to the business that were and specific responsibility for ensuring compliance with and discussed by the Board during the year is shown below.
Risk and description Potential impact Mitigation Contractual Failure to manage large and complex Failure to deliver a major contract The Group utilises professional expertise to contracts.
In addition, as the Group in accordance with customer minimise risk in contract negotiation.
Limits of continues to grow there is a risk requirements would have potentially authority are designed to ensure that contracts that contracts are accepted on significant commercial and financial are reviewed and approved at appropriate levels unsatisfactory terms.
risk and the impact of potential prior to commitment.
Major contracts are subject litigation.
to ongoing review at levels and frequencies appropriate to performance and potential risks.
Recruitment and retention of key staff The success of the Group is built The failure to attract or retain personnel Succession planning, regular appraisals upon strong management teams in of the requisite calibre could have an and appropriate remuneration incentives the operating businesses who are adverse impact on the business.
including the extension of share schemes to committed to the success of their key individuals and the implementation of skills respective businesses.
Our success development initiatives are designed to retain also depends on recruiting and and motivate individuals.
retaining the right people in all areas of our business.
Reputational risk from operational incidents The Groups businesses are reliant An adverse operational incident The Group places a particular emphasis on the on ensuring that a good reputation is would potentially damage the Group health, safety and security of its operations which maintained with their customers.
are regularly monitored and reported to the Board.
Financial The Group is exposed to interest An increase in interest rates or change The Group manages interest rate and rate, foreign exchange and credit in exchange rates or credit restriction foreign exchange rate risks through hedging risk.
The majority of its transactions would have a financial impact.
The Group are in USD or GBP but the Group maintains relationships with a small key group has an increasing exposure to less of banks and reviews its funding mix and liquid currencies.
requirements at each Board meeting.
Energy prices The Group has significant operations A marked fall in the price of oil or gas The Group has limited exposure to the in the oil and gas sector.
leading to reduced investment in these exploration phase and seeks longer term markets could indirectly affect demand contracts in the production and maintenance for the Groups products and services.
cycles in the oil and gas sector.
Operations in emerging markets The Group has increasing activities This has the potential for increasing the The Group allocates additional resource to areas in overseas emerging markets which Groups financial and governance risk of higher risk and enhanced internal audit reviews may be in association with local exposure.
are supported by external audit companies.
Pensions Defined benefit pension schemes Increased pension deficits would be The Group liaises with the trustees of its own place the financial risk with the detrimental to the Groups balance schemes and works proactively to fide-risk employer.
Future contributions are sheet and lead to increased future liabilities and actively participates in employer assessed on a number of actuarial contributions.
The Group is also group initiatives in industry wide schemes.
assumptions which can change over required to contribute to industry wide time and may result in increases or schemes which carry the risk that if decreases in pension deficits.
others default the liability increases for the remaining participants.
