Risk management The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with theBoard, the foundation of effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we dobusiness and the culture of our team.
Our flat organisational structure, with close involvement of senior management in all significant decisions combined with our cautious and analytical approach, is designed to align the Groups interests with those ofshareholders.
Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Operational Committees ational Commi Executive Committee weekly Development Investment Strategy update Corporate responsibility Asset management management management quarterly quarterly review weekly weekly quarterly Development Financial management management review Environmental policy Asset management weekly quarterly quarterly weekly Policies for highlighting and contr icies for highlighting and controlling risk olling r Investment return Regular review Development appraisal benchmarks of business plans parameters Debt leverage, covenant Occupancy Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Dened performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualied and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specic roles Business risk 52 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivery of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the processes through which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Market risk from last year Central London real estate Research into the economy and the investment and The central London real estate market has market underperforms other occupational markets is evaluated as part of the Groups considerably outperformed the wider UK UK property sectors leading to annual strategy process covering the key areas of market during the year ended 31 March poor relative financial results investment, development and asset management and 2013, demonstrated by IPDs central updated regularly throughout the year.
London TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 7.3 percentage points and the outlook continues to be favourable.
Our market pages 25 to 27 Economic recovery falters Regular economic updates are received and scenario The global market backdrop over the past resulting in worse than planning is undertaken for different economic cycles.
12 months has continued to be dominated expected performance of by the Eurozone debt crisis and the 63% of income from committed developments already the business given decline prospects for near-term UK economic secured.
Whilst challenges in the Eurozone remain, the possibility of a Eurozone breakup has somewhat receded as central bank policy stimulus and co-ordination have provided support to capital markets.
Our market pages 25 to 27 Investment management Not sufciently capitalising The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to The Group has continued to invest and on market investment constantly research each of the sub-markets within central recycle capital against a backdrop of opportunities through difficulty London seeking the right balance of investment and moderate capital value growth in central in sourcing investment development opportunities suitable for current and London and a surfeit of buyers to sellers in opportunities at attractive anticipated market conditions.
prices, poor investment Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions During the year acquisitions totalling decisions and mis-timed prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
271.0 million with low average capital value recycling of capital of 662 per sq ft were made together with Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis disposals of 184.2 million at premium to to ensure the appropriate churn of those buildings with book value of 4.0%.
Our market pages 25 to 27 Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint Investment management venture partners.
pages 30 and 31 Case studies pages 12 and 13, pages 14 and 15 Inappropriate asset Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
The Group continues to monitor its portfolio concentration, mix and lot size Where appropriate, consideration given to undertaking mix and asset concentration risk.
Our largest reduces liquidity and relative acquisitions and or development projects in joint venture asset is only 7.8% of the total portfolio and property performance or forward funding.
20.2% of the portfolio is held in joint ventures.
Valuation pages 28 and 29 Asset management Failure to maximise income The Groups in-house asset management and leasing The Group continues to maintain a low void from investment properties teams proactively manage tenants to ensure changing rate which was 2.3% at 31 March 2013. through poor management of needs are met with a focus on retaining income in light of Tenant delinquencies were 0.1% of the voids, mis-pricing, low tenant vacant possession requirements for refurbishments and rent roll for the year to 31 March 2013. retention, sub-optimal rent developments and liaise regularly with external advisers to The Group continues to actively manage the reviews, tenant failures and ensure correct pricing of lease transactions.
portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive inappropriate refurbishments The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest rental growth.
tenants representing only 34.2% of rent roll.
Asset management pages 34 and 35 Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as Case studies pages 12 and 13, appropriate as part of the lease approval process.
Regular pages 18 and 19, pages 60 and 61 contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are Sustainability targets pages 62 and 63 suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 53 Risk management Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Development management from last year Poor development returns See market risk above.
The Groups development programme of relating to: high quality core central London projects Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts continues to attract quality tenants with incorrect reading of the a detailed Financial and Operational appraisal process 14.0 million of pre-lets secured since property cycle: which evaluates the expected returns from a development 1 April 2012. in light of likely risks.
During the course of a development, inappropriate location: the actual costs and estimated returns are regularly Development management failure to gain viable monitored to signpost prompt decisions on project pages 32 and 33 planning consents: management, leasing and ownership.
Case studies pages 12 and 13, level of speculative 63% of income from committed developments already pages 16 and 17, pages 18 and 19, development: secured.
pages 60 and 61 contractor availability and Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability Our approach to sustainability page 59 insolvency risk: of demolition and main contractors prior to awarding Sustainability targets pages 64 and 65 a building being inappropriate of contracts.
to tenant demand: Working with agents, potential occupiers needs and quality and benchmarks of aspirations are identied during the planning application the completed buildings: and design stages.
construction and All our major developments are subject to BREEAM procurement delays: ratings with a target to achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new build ineffective marketing to properties.
prospective tenants: and Proactive liaison with existing tenants before and during poor development the development process.
Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record of delivery and credit worthiness.
In-house Leasing team liaise with external advisers on a regular basis and marketing timetables designed in accordance with leasing objectives.
In-house Project Management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors to ensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint venture partners.
Post completion reviews undertaken on all developments to identify best practice and areas for improvement.
Level of development Regular review of the level of development undertaken With forecasted supply of central London undertaken as a percentage as a percentage of portfolio, including the impact on the ofce space expected to be scarce in the of the portfolio leads to Groups income prole and financial gearing, amongst near to medium-term, the Group has underperformance other metrics.
continued its near-term development against KPIs programme to capitalise on the expected Developments only committed when pre-lets obtained resulting rental growth.
and or market supply considered to be sufciently constrained.
Our market pages 25 to 27 Development management pages 32 and 33 Case studies pages 16 and 17, pages 18 and 19 Financial risks Limited availability of further Cash ow and funding needs are regularly monitored Since 31 March 2012, the Group has capital constrains the growth to ensure sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
continued to diversify and enhance the of the business maturity ladder of its debt nancing.
Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long-term.
In November 2012, the Company raised 138 million through a share placing to The Groups funding measures are diversied across a finance acquisitions of properties with range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty asset management angles to exploit.
limits are operated on deposits.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities are 282 million.
Financial management pages 36 and 37 Our financial results page 41 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements pages 84 to 88 54 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Financial risks continued from last year Adverse market movements Regular review of current and forecast debt levels and The slow forecast recovery of the UK negatively impact on debt nancing ratios.
economy is expected to result in a continued covenants through increased low interest rate environment in the near Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having interest rates or a fall in term.
Central London property values are a high proportion of debt with xed or capped interest capital values expected to benefit from rental value growth rates through derivatives.
and continued strong investment demand.
significant headroom over all financial covenants at Financial management pages 36 and 37 31 March 2013.
Our financial results pages 40 and 41 We estimate that values could fall by 38% from their 31 March 2013 levels before group debt covenants could Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the be endangered.
Group financial statements pages 84 to 88 Inappropriate capital structure Regular review of current and forecast debt and gearing The Groups existing capital structure is well results in sub-optimal NAV levels and nancing ratios.
placed to take advantage of opportunities as per share growth they arise and to deliver our near-term development programme.
Financial management pages 36 and 37 Our financial results pages 40 and 41 People Correct level, mix and Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource New Head of Development role created retention of people to requirements and succession planning.
in March 2013. execute our Business Plan.
The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly Other senior managers remain unchanged.
Strategic priorities not linked to performance and a formal appraisal system to Our people pages 48 to 51 achieved because of inability provide regular assessment of individual performance and Remuneration report pages 113 to 127 to attract, develop, motivate identication of training needs.
and retain talented employees Regulatory Adverse regulatory risk Senior Group representatives spend considerable time During 2013 new Building Regulations will including tax, planning, using experienced advisers as appropriate, to ensure come into effect requiring further reductions environmental legislation and compliance with current and potential future regulations.
on carbon emissions whilst the risk to the EU directives increases cost Group from increasing regulation having Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active base, reduces exibility and unforeseen consequences and the impact participation of the Executive Directors through relevant may inuence potential of certain EU directives including the AIFM industry bodies.
investor and occupier interest directive continues to be uncertain.
Environmental Policy Committee meets at least quarterly in buildings Property industry representation to consider strategy in respect of environmental legislation.
page 57 Sustainability targets pages 62 to 65 Health and safety incidents The Group has dedicated health and safety personnel to The Group had two reportable accidents oversee the Groups management systems which include during the year each resulting in a contractor Loss of or injury to employees, regular risk assessments and annual audits to proactively requiring three days off work.
contractors or tenants and address key health and safety areas including employee, resultant reputational damage There were no other incidents across the contractor and tenant safety.
Groups investment or development portfolio.
On developments, the Group operates a pre-qualication Sustainability targets pages 64 and 65 process to ensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes a health and safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 55
