PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MANAGING UNCERTAINTY The management of risk is integrated with our operating, financial and governance activities.
The policies for risk management are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, protect our reputation and optimise performance when opportunities arise.
We identify, control and communicate risk management throughout the organisation using a framework which is regularly reviewed by our management team.
The six principal areas of risk in that framework, together Responsibility for risk management rests ultimately with the with the related mitigations, are shown in the table opposite.
However, the foundations of our approach are the Macroeconomics and government policies continue to mindset of our people, their integrity and the culture we foster dominate the risk landscape.
Although there is now a sense at Hammerson.
Short reporting lines and a flat management of stability, and growth has returned to some Western structure mean that the senior team is involved in all key economies, including the UK, the recovery is slow and decision making, and risk identification and mitigation.
We have also included references in the table to the pages in this Annual Report where the risks, or the elements of the business affected by them, are discussed further, and where relevant linked the risks with our strategic priorities.
OUR RISK MANAGEMENT MODEL Board oversight Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Group Executive Committee UK Executive Hammerson French Management Board Risk and Controls Committee Policies and Procedures Internal Audit Behaviour and Culture Business Risk www.
com 55 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk, impact and Further related strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2012 BUSINESS STRATEGY Property and financial markets Chairmans Implementation of a strategy We commission and evaluate research into the Financial markets have statement inconsistent with the market economy and investment and occupational markets stabilised over the last year.
page 4 environment, risking poor and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and Growth has returned to some Chief Executives investment decisions and regular financial forecasts.
Western economies, in part report inadequate returns.
thanks to continued fiscal Hammersons portfolio is diversified by sub-sector and page 7 stimuli, stock markets have Shopping centre, retail parks or its allocation, including exposure to the eurozone, is Our markets performed strongly and premium designer outlet markets reviewed regularly.
page 8 uncertainty over the future of in UK or France underperform We focus on prime shopping centres in the best Business review the eurozone has diminished.
relative to other sectors or markets, locations, convenient retail parks and premium page 32 However, levels of growth eroding shareholder value.
designer outlets, all with experienced management.
Financial review remain subdued and the risk Stress-testing of our business model against a severe Related strategic priorities page 49 of market shocks remains.
downside economic scenario has confirmed that the Retailers are continuing to Group is robust.
Low gearing, long-term secure 1 ensure that their sales income streams from our leases, the currency hedging channels remain relevant in of the value of and income from our French portfolio, 2 the digital age and provide a good spread of debt maturities and the flexibility to consumers with the flexibility phase or halt our development programme all point and convenience they require.
to resilience to market shocks.
Real estate remains a We monitor closely developments in multi-channel cornerstone of their plans.
retailing and introduce innovative new concepts to our portfolio when appropriate.
PROPERTY AND CORPORATE INVESTMENT Property valuations Our markets Investment decisions result in Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, supported by As noted above, the economic page 8 inadequate returns or the detailed review, financial appraisals, due diligence and environment has become adoption of unforeseen liabilities.
detailed risk assessment prior to Board approval.
Business review more benign with a page 37 corresponding increase in Opportunities to divest of The performance of individual properties is Property portfolio investor demand for real properties are missed, or limited benchmarked against target returns.
information estate, reinforced by an by market constraints, reducing Properties are held in a ready for sale state, with page 51 appetite by overseas investors potential returns.
documentation supporting leases, rights and for safer returns from prime obligations readily accessible.
Related strategic priorities assets in the UK and France.
The Groups property portfolio is of high quality, The result is that values for geographically diversified and let to a large number such properties have risen 1 of tenants.
However, in the event that there is further 3 instability in the eurozone, significant volatility could return to financial markets in the short to medium terms, which could have a knock-on effect on real estate values.
Key to the principal risks table Strategic priority Change in risk from 2012 1 Creating high-quality property Increased 2 Maximising income Same 3 Capital strength Reduced 56 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Risk, impact and Further related strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2012 PROPERTY AND CORPORATE INVESTMENT CONTINUED Tenant default Security and Financial loss arises through We regularly monitor the credit status of tenants The rate of tenant quality of income tenant default.
and adopt a flexible approach to tenant requests administrations has fallen as page 51 for changes to payment terms.
economic conditions have Related strategic priorities Tenant covenant improved.
Some retailers are Arrears are reported monthly and we report strength and now planning to expand their six-monthly on Group-wide tenant exposures.
collection rates 1 representation, but are The Groups geographical diversity and its large page 52 expected to concentrate on number of tenants mean the impact of individual 2 prime retail sites.
tenant default for Hammerson is low.
Our occupational leases are generally long-term contracts, making the income stream relatively secure.
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Development and letting Creating Over-exposure to developments The Groups exposure to developments and the As retailers plans for expansion high-quality within a short timeframe phasing of projects is considered as part of our have gathered pace, so has property increases exposure to market risk annual Business Plan and reviewed throughout their interest in our planned page 32 and puts pressure on financing the year.
However, we are seeing We monitor and report on development inflationary pressures building Poor control of the development projects monthly.
in the construction sector, programme and failure to Detailed analysis, including market research, is fuelled by growing demand for address investment and undertaken prior to the approval of each skills and raw materials as occupational market risks or development project.
inflationary pressures results in Where possible, guaranteed maximum price inadequate returns.
contracts are agreed with building contractors and Poor management and fixed prices agreed for other advisers.
inadequate resourcing leads to Multi-disciplinary teams are assembled for each failed projects.
Related strategic priorities A programme of post-completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
1 We have a substantial pipeline but will progress developments only when the relevant markets are 3 2 sufficiently robust, when we have the right level of interest from occupiers and on the basis that sound financial analysis demonstrates good returns.
We currently have a limited number of developments underway.
At the largest, Les Terrasses du Port in Marseille, 93% of the income has been contracted or is in solicitors hands.
com 57 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk, impact and Further related strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2012 TREASURY, TAX AND REGULATORY Property valuations Financial review Breach of borrowing covenants We set guidelines for financial ratios which are The improved economic page 49 triggers default and or repayment monitored regularly by the Board.
picture has supported of facilities or bonds.
Notes 20 and 21 property valuations for Our annual Business Plan includes stress tests to the accounts prime assets and hence considering the impact of a significant deterioration Related strategic priorities pages 142 to maintained the safety margin in the markets in which we operate.
Gearing stood at 56% at 31 December 2013, 1 significantly lower than the Groups most stringent borrowing covenant that gearing should not exceed 3 150%.
We estimate that values could fall by 43% from their December 2013 levels before covenants would be endangered.
Liquidity risk Financial review Poor planning or external factors, The Board approves future investment requirements Lenders have continued to page 49 including failures in the banking and sufficient facilities are put in place with an be selective in their choice system, lead to a liquidity squeeze appropriate maturity profile.
of counterparty and the preventing the refinancing of corporate bond market is We monitor the maturity profile of debt and take an maturing debt or leading to open to borrowers with an opportunistic approach to refinancing.
insufficient liquidity to progress appropriate risk profile.
Credit ratings are set for lending counterparties and the development programme.
Alternatives to the traditional monitored.
We use diverse sources of funding.
bank lending and bond Companies with short-term The high quality and diversification of our portfolio markets, such as private financing requirements may should help to protect values from the negative placement, remain open.
continue to find it difficult to impacts which may arise from changes in the secure sufficient funding, in financial and property markets.
particular from banks, at costs While credit conditions during 2013 have been comparable with their favourable for debt issuers, there is a risk that this existing facilities.
The Groups recent funding strategy Related strategic priorities has therefore sought to refinance near-term maturities early to minimise refinancing risk.
In November we entered into a private placement for $443 million 275 million with funding deferred to 3 February and June 2014.
Combined with our high liquidity of 716 million, we are therefore well positioned for the Groups nearest bank debt maturity of 250 million in 2014 and the 480 million 399 million bond which matures in 2015.
Interest rate and exchange risk Financial review Adverse currency or interest We set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and Interest rates have remained page 49 rate movements result in floating interest rates, using interest rate and currency low over the last 12 months, but financial losses.
At 31 December 2013, 70% of there is a growing expectation the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
that they will rise in the medium Related strategic priorities term as economic growth and Exchange risk is managed principally by matching inflation return.
foreign currency assets with foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
At the end of 2013, 79% of The sterling euro exchange the value of the Groups French portfolio was hedged rate has stabilised, but 3 in this way.
continues to be susceptible to volatility at times of heightened uncertainty in the eurozone.
58 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Risk, impact and Further related strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2012 TREASURY, TAX AND REGULATORY CONTINUED Tax and regulatory Loss of tax exempt status due to Speculation and comment relating to changes in tax Governments are seeking to change in legislation.
regimes in the UK and Europe is monitored with the reduce fiscal deficits and help of specialist advisers.
regulators are examining EU UK regulation acts as a brake mechanisms which would on growth and administrative Developments in regulation are monitored and make financial markets more burden for the real estate sector.
governments and regulators lobbied through resilient.
Increased taxation representation by UK and European real estate Related strategic priorities may be a risk for the broader trade bodies.
business sector, but an asset-based industry such as real estate, which currently 3 benefits from tax-efficient regimes throughout Europe, could become a specific target.
The real estate sector is sometimes perceived by regulators to be part of the financial services sector rather than as an operating business and the industry could be adversely affected by misdirected regulation designed to stabilise financial markets.
BUSINESS ORGANISATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES Maximising the Inappropriate management A Human Resources plan features as part of the As conditions have improved, contribution of structure or resourcing levels for annual Business Plan.
the recruitment market has our people achieving business objectives.
become more active with The Nomination Committee approves succession page 24 rising demand for good Failure to recruit and retain key plans for senior roles.
This will put upward Governance executives and staff with Significant changes to the management structure are pages 60 to 71 pressure on salaries for the appropriate skills and calibre.
Remuneration We periodically review the remuneration structure, Related strategic priorities Report including an annual review by the Remuneration pages 72 to 99 Committee and benchmarking against industry, or 1 other relevant, comparatives.
3 2 CATASTROPHIC EVENT The Groups operations or Continuity plans established at both corporate and Risk assessments for terrorist financial security are significantly individual property levels.
and cyber risks remain affected by disruption to financial elevated.
Crisis management group established with markets following a wide-scale predetermined processes and escalation.
event such as a power shortage, Physical security measures in place at properties.
extreme weather, environmental Senior management, including crisis management incident, civil unrest or terrorist or The Strategic Report is approved group, receive media training for crisis events.
and signed on behalf of the Board on Security threat assessed regularly through links with 14 February 2014 Related strategic priorities security agencies.
Insurance policies include terrorism cover.
1 David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Director Director 3 2 www.
