Section 1 24 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board recognises that risk where appropriate to mitigate against relation to the equity element of the management is essential for the Groups Euro investments the Board Group to achieve its objectives.
Whilst monitors the level of exposure on a our principal risks have remained at low capital values and with due regular basis and considers the level unchanged over the course of the and timing of when to take out the appropriate hedging instruments to Over-borrowing by the Group the Board regularly consider the cover this exposure.
There is also a with inability to meet repayment risk that one or more of the countries that the Group operates in could controls and if necessary instigate increases or facility covenant action to improve those controls.
the nature of the Groups loans and breaches represents a risk to the derivatives or introduce new volatility Group.
In response to these risks There will always be some risk when and currency exposures for the Hansteen maintains a prudent undertaking property investments Group to manage.
approach to its borrowing levels but the control process is aimed by seeking to maintain headroom In addition to the need to act as a at mitigating and minimising these within its debt facility covenants risks where possible.
The key risks and have cash resources that occasions when pollution on a site exceed immediate loan repayment owned by a property investment taken to mitigate them and additional requirements.
The Board actively company becomes its responsibility commentary is as follows: monitors current debt and equity and risk of non compliance with laws Changes in the general economic levels as well as considering the and regulations is apparent.
Each environment expose the Group future levels of debt and equity acquisition undertaken by the Group to a number of risks including required to sustain the business.
includes an environmental report falls in the value of its property Current and projected compliance from a specialist consultancy.
These with loan covenants are monitored reports may highlight the need for and increased vacant property further investigation and in some costs due to the failure of tenants prepared on a regular basis.
The Groups to renew or extend leases as well as money borrowed consideration is policy is then to either undertake the potential for tenants to become given to procuring the appropriate such investigations or remediation or bankrupt.
The Board believes these hedging instruments to protect potentially reject the purchase as no risks are reduced due to its policy of against increases in interest rates.
assembling a portfolio with a wide By investing in property in mainland Loss of REIT status and payment Europe the Group is exposed to of additional corporation tax and geographical location as well as a foreign currency exchange rate would arise from a breach of REIT undertaking thorough due diligence risk.
In response to this risk the compliance requirements.
The risk of on acquisitions.
The level of exposure Groups borrowings in Europe are a breach of certain limits imposed by to individual tenants is regularly in Euro denominated loan facilities REIT legislation is mitigated through monitored to ensure they are within regular review of the Groups actual manageable limits.
Rent deposits and forecast performance against or bank guarantees are requested self hedging mechanism is in place.
