Principal Risks 2013 saw the further enhancement of the risk management process The Board sets the policy for managing risks The process for monitoring and controlling controls and risk management processes and and recognises the importance of identifying, risk, illustrated below, emphasises continuous procedures, identifying areas for improvement actively monitoring, mitigating and managing, evaluation and monitoring by Division and reporting to senior management and the as appropriate, the full range of financial and Presidents, together with their respective Audit Committee.
Due to its independence non-financial risks facing the business.
By management teams, including business unit and objectivity, Internal Audit is able to provide regularly reviewing the risk appetite of the management and functional management.
reliable assurance on the effectiveness of business, the Board ensures that the Groups The risk framework is structured to ensure the overall governance, risk management risk exposure remains appropriate at any point that risks are identified promptly, mitigated and internal control processes.
In addition to in the economic cycle and links effectively into and managed appropriately and that actions considering the Groups Internal Audit advice, the management of its strategic objectives.
are undertaken that ensure alignment of the Audit Committee takes account of the The Board has ultimate accountability for risk performance with the Groups Strategic Plan.
views of our independent External Audit team.
management systems and controls, with the Risk Committee responsible for overseeing The Group manages risk by operating a A description of the principal risks in the execution of risk management processes and Three Lines of Assurance risk and control model.
context of Cobhams operations, together procedures throughout the Group.
The Audit The first line lies with operational management with a description of the potential impact Committee has delegated responsibility for implementing and maintaining effective internal on the Group if unaddressed, and an outline monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness controls and risk management procedures.
of the actions taken to mitigate them, of the system.
More details on the role of the They are supported by a number of oversight are set out on pages 29 to 31.
The risks are Audit Committee in this regard are set out functions which form the second line.
Internal not intended to be in any particular order.
Audit is the third line, trusted with reviewing How we monitor and control risk The Board Sets strategic objectives: Sets delegation of authority: and Agrees the corporate risk register and Groups risk appetite: Approves Corporate Framework.
Monitors mitigating controls: Risk Committee Oversight Audit Committee Oversight of key risks and ensures Finance Monitors assurance and risk they are appropriately managed: Risk and Insurance management systems of control.
Monitors performance and changes in Legal and Compliance key risks facing the business and provides IT regular reports to the Board: and Corporate Responsibility Agrees key actions to manage risks.
and Sustainability CR&S Safety, Health & Environment SHE Independent Assurance Human Resources Internal Audit Business Unit, SBU and Division Provides strategic management, Identifies key risks at the entity level: and policy and procedure setting, Provides independent challenge Establishes risk and control environment.
Three Lines of Assurance Identifying risks and business improvement Responsible for setting entity level controls: Independent challenge: actions in the businesses: Setting direction and tone: Audit of key controls: Responsible for design of controls to mitigate risk: Designing policies: Formal reporting on assurance: Implementing Group policies: Introducing best practice: Audit of Assurance Providers: and Reporting on progress: and Monitoring and ensuring compliance: Entity level control.
Providing assurance oversight: and Monitoring representation letters and self-assessment process.
28 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 1 2 Deterioration in the macroeconomic Failure to execute on agreed environment adversely impacting strategy to return to sustainable our markets organic revenue growth Risk Risk The Groups revenue is derived from global defence security and The Groups ability to generate organic revenue and associated profit commercial markets.
The level and type of spending is dependent growth consistently is the key driver of value creation.
on a complex mix of macroeconomic, fiscal and strategic defence and security imperatives.
Impact Impact Changes in government spending could lead to programme terminations Failure to grow leads to an impaired competitive position, or delays, or changes in market growth.
reduced trading margins and a declining return on invested capital.
Deterioration in demand affecting short cycle business or a fundamental The Group will experience reputational damage and a reduced shift in how customers procure products or services could have an adverse ability to invest for future growth.
effect on the Groups future results.
Mitigation Mitigation A review of near and long term market trends is conducted as part Effective strategic planning, maintain robust and dynamic strategic of the Groups strategic planning process to ensure that actual and thinking processes to ensure the Group is exposed to growth markets anticipated impacts from macroeconomic environment risks are through the economic cycle.
Continued focus on and investment in programme management to Increased emphasis on identifying adjacent markets in which the ensure customer expectations are met underpins the Groups ability Groups proven and transferable technologies can be applied.
The Group is seeking more balance in its portfolio between its defence Appropriate investment in future technologies aligned to identified security and commercial markets, so it can grow through economic cycles.
The successful completion of the EiD programme together with a The Group remains focused on continuous improvement across culture of continuous improvement will enable the Group to have sector all operations, including EiD, programme management, business leading operating performance, while reducing costs.
This will enable it development, functional excellence and strategic workforce planning.
to remain competitive in the face of volume declines or price pressures and retain flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately to changing market conditions.
Regular review of market demand data, re-forecasting and adjusting planning in line with market demand.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Principal Risks continued 3 4 5 Failure to identify and Inability to attract, Contract risk execute value creating retain and develop and execution M&A to supplement the best talent, leading organic growth to a shortage of key skills Risk Risk Risk Underpinning the Groups Strategic Plan The success of the Groups strategy is The Group designs, develops and delivers is the identification of appropriate dependent on its ability to attract and products and services that are often acquisition targets and the subsequent retain talent and skills.
customised, utilising complex technologies, execution of value creating transactions.
under fixed price contracts that are sometimes long term in nature.
This gives rise to the risks of failure to execute the contract profitably, the supply of a defective or delayed product, the incurrence of other contractually related liabilities, or damage to reputation and commercial relationships.
Impact Impact Impact Failure to complete appropriate transactions Lacking all the skills necessary to execute Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a impacts the Groups ability to generate on growth plans and deliver key customer contract gives rise to increased programme shareholder value.
programmes leads to reduced customer costs, contract penalties, litigation and confidence in the Group and a degraded other financial liabilities, reduced future financial outlook.
Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding new and existing business from the Group.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The implementation of rigorous M&A The Group is implementing a Strategic A thorough review of the business case disciplines, aligned with the Groups strategic Workforce Plan, aligned with the Groups and terms and conditions, and subsequent planning process, improves the ability to overall strategy, to ensure it has the right variations, prior to signing ensures contract successfully execute transactions.
people with the right skills in the right place.
provisions and risks are fairly allocated between parties.
The Group has a rigorous post-acquisition It has established an integrated management review process to ensure that targeted returns training and appraisal programme.
The Group has established an EVP, Life are achieved and lessons learnt shared.
Cycle Management LCM and Programme The Group is expanding its graduate Management position, to ensure its key The Group continually monitors whether it recruitment and apprenticeships programmes.
contract and programme management has capable resources in place to manage policies and procedures are applied M&A projects from origination to integration.
The Group is committed to providing its consistently and appropriately across employees with a safe working environment.
all areas of the business, and to provide The Groups capital allocation strategy increased focus on improvements includes a willingness to return capital to its programme management and to investors, in the absence of value LCM capabilities.
Monthly reporting of progress against agreed improvement actions on LCM to the Group Executive, and semi-annually to the Audit Committee.
30 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 6 7 8 Long term contract exposures Significant business Failure to comply with laws, to inflation, currency and interruption regulations and restrictions commodity pricing fluctuations Risk Risk Risk The Groups financial results are dependent The Groups business could be impacted Cobham operates in a highly regulated on managing macro financial risks, including by natural disasters affecting its environment and is subject to the laws, inflation, currency and commodity.
operational locations, by IT systems regulations and restrictions of many failures or by cyber attack, rendering jurisdictions, including those of the US, critical systems unworkable.
the UK and other countries.
These include anti-bribery provisions, import and export controls, and government contracting rules.
Impact Impact Impact Failure to manage financial risks can impact Unscheduled interruption to business Sanctions for failure by the Group, or operating profit through higher costs or activities would result in reduced profits, its sales intermediaries, or others acting lower revenue and result in the Group failing loss of customer satisfaction, potential on its behalf to comply with these laws, to meet its financial results forecast.
cost outlays, and reputational impact.
regulations and restrictions could include fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment of the Group from future government contracts for a period of time, as well as having an impact on the Groups reputation.
Such sanctions could have an impact on the Groups financial position and future operations.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Currency risks are considered as part of the bid The Group maintains major incident and IT Cobham continues to drive a culture that approval process on large contracts.
Cobham failure business continuity plans.
All employees ensures that safety, ethics and integrity puts currency or other hedges in place for at are trained in the relevant procedures.
are embodied in all that it does.
least 80% of estimated transactional exposure for a rolling 12 months, a proportion of IT security and capability are continually Policies and procedures are included exposures between 12 and 36 months and monitored and strengthened when needed.
in the Groups Corporate Framework, which firm exposures on long term contracts.
is regularly reviewed and audited, including The Group works closely with insurers to procedures related to the use of sales and The Group sources and manufactures in ensure operating infrastructure and processes marketing representatives, anti-bribery local currency whenever practicable.
include robust risk improvement activities.
and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, whistleblowing and investigation The Group manages inflation and commodity of ethics and compliance concerns.
pricing risks through appropriate contractual terms, with suppliers contracted on an Mandatory training is undertaken on a equivalent basis to match residual risks variety of compliance related subjects, where possible.
including US Government contracting, anti-bribery and corruption.
Minimum maximum supplier prices are stipulated where possible to avoid unlimited exposure, when there is a risk that costs inflate ahead of revenue.
Fixed price quotes are avoided for commodity related costs.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
