DIRECTORS REPORT our principal risks anD How we manaGe tHem Our Board recognises the importance of Importantly the Board perceives risk not only internal controls.
They are supported by identifying and actively monitoring the full as having a potential negative influence on a number of oversight functions which form range of financial and non-financial risks the business but also as an opportunity that the second line.
Internal Audit serves as the facing the business.
By regularly reviewing can be a source of financial outperformance.
third line, tasked with reviewing controls and the risk appetite of the business, the Board risk management procedures, identifying For effective risk management it is necessary ensures that the risk exposure remains areas for improvement and reporting to that the identification, assessment and appropriate at any point in the cycle.
Whilst Senior Management and the Audit management of known and emerging risks responsibility for risk management clearly Committee.
Due to its independence and form part of a dynamic process.
See page 72. rests with the Board, the management of risk objectivity, Internal Audit is able to provide is embedded as part of our everyday business We manage risk by operating a Three lines reliable assurance on the effectiveness of the activities and culture and all our employees of defence risk and control model.
The first overall governance, risk management and are responsible for maintaining the control line lies with operational management internal control processes.
implementing and maintaining effective risk manaGement process cHart 12 risk anD control tHree lines oF DeFence cHart 13 Identify Report risks Assess and mitigation and quantify to the Board 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Management Financial control Internal Audit Internal control Risk management framework Health and safety Environment Re-assess risk Develop action post-mitigation plans to mitigate Business standards Legal The following tables show the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, the Boards view on how they have changed over the year, the processes by which we aim to manage them and which of our strategic objectives they impact.
principal risks key Strategic goal and objectives 1.
Ensure high levels of customer Change from last year Our overall goal is to provide attractive and sustainable shareholder returns.
Increased total returns for our shareholders by being at the 2.
Maximise the returns from the 6.
Attract, develop, retain and motivate No change forefront of meeting the space requirements of our investment portfolio.
To deliver that strategy, we have set 3.
Manage our balance sheet effectively.
Continually improve sustainability ourselves seven fundamental objectives: performance.
people Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2011 12 Strategic objectives People p4950 Inability to attract, Lack the skills Competitive remuneration plans.
1, 6 retain and develop necessary to deliver Stable senior Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing.
the business management team objectives.
with clear evidence of Clear employee objectives and development plans.
Succession planning and talent management.
32 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE DIRECTORS REPORT Financial Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2011 12 Strategic objectives Liability structure p3031 Lack of availability Increased cost of 1, 3 1.1bn revolving credit facility in place, which matures in 2016 of bank funding.
and a 135m bilateral facility which matures in March 2015.
Despite continuing uncertainty in both Limits ability to Access to different sources of finance with most of our the financial sector meet existing debt funding on a long-term basis and with a spread of maturity and the eurozone, the maturities and fund dates.
The weighted average life of our debt at 31 March 2013 cost and availability forward cash is 9.7 years.
Modest gearing Security Group LTV at 31 March 2013 of 37.7%.
Liability structure Reduced financial The Groups Asset and Liability Committee meets three 1, 3 is unable to adapt and operational times a year to monitor both sides of the balance sheet and to changing asset flexibility.
recommend strategy to the Board.
strategy or Missed business We manage the business within an inner gearing range property value.
opportunities and of 35% to 45% LTV in normal market conditions.
higher cost of Security Group structure allows assets to be sold and ability financing.
Our principal debt funding structure benefits from financial default only being triggered at 1 times Security Group ICR currently 4.1 times or 100% Security Group LTV currently 37.7%.
At less than 1.45 times ICR or greater than 65% LTV, a persuasive covenant regime applies which is designed to preserve cash for the potential protection of lenders and encourage the business to reduce debt.
The existing revolving credit facility provides flexibility as it allows debt to be drawn in certain circumstances even when the Security Group LTV exceeds 65%.
reGulatory Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2011 12 Strategic objectives Health and safety p4856 Accidents causing Criminal civil Board responsibility for health and safety.
1, 5 injury to proceedings Quarterly Board reporting.
employees, and resultant contractors, reputational Dedicated specialist personnel.
Annual cycle of health and safety audits.
Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certification.
Environment p4856 Properties do Increased cost base.
1, 5, 7 not comply with Continuing Inability to attract Dedicated specialist personnel.
legislation or investment and focus or retain tenants.
meet customer Established policy and procedures including ISO 14001 on energy and waste expectations.
Active involvement in legislative working parties.
Active environmental programme addressing key areas of energy and waste.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 33 DIRECTORS REPORT principal risks key Strategic goal and objectives 1.
property investment Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2011 12 Strategic objectives Customers p4856 Pressure on Shift in customer Large and diversified tenant base our largest retail tenant, 1, 2, 5 consumer demand with Arcadia, represents only 2.3% of rents.
consequent impact continue to be very Of our income, 62.8% is derived from tenants who make on new lettings, difficult for tenants, less than a 1% contribution to rent roll.
renewal of existing particularly within the leases and rental High quality property portfolio, of which 58.9% is located retail sector, resulting growth.
in a number of tenant failures.
Retail tenants Target for maximum percentage of leases subject to expiry unable to meet in any one year.
existing rental Experienced leasing team.
Active development programme to maintain a modern portfolio well suited to occupier requirements.
Variety of asset types and, for the Retail Portfolio, geographic spread.
Market cyclicality p2231 Volatility and Reduces liquidity Large multi-asset portfolio.
1, 2 speed of change and relative Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 5.9% of asset valuations property of the total portfolio.
Average investment property lot size of 67.3m.
Generally favour full control and ownership of assets 14.0% of assets currently in joint ventures.
Average unexpired lease term of 9.1 years with a maximum of 11.0% of gross rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year.
Acquisitions p2231 Inability to acquire Reduction in Experienced investment team.
1, 2, 3 new assets to revenue profits.
Although the risk is Integrated portfolio and investment management teams.
replace properties not considered to have that have been Ability to control level of property sales.
changed from the sold or are in the prior year, there Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital process of being remains a lack of and income basis.
attractively priced Strategy of flexing size of development programme assets in both the according to the outlook for the market cycle.
Despite this, we have broadly balanced sales with development expenditure and acquisitions, increasing the proportion of leisure within our business in line with our strategy.
34 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE DIRECTORS REPORT Development Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2011 12 Strategic objectives Development p2231 The impact of failing to lease the un-let element of our 1, 2, 3, 4 Occupiers Negative development programme must not exceed the Groups reluctant to enter valuation Difficult trading movements.
into commitments conditions continue to to take new affect tenant appetite Reduction in Proportion of capital employed in development programme space in our to take on new space, income.
based on total costs to completion will not exceed 20% of our developments.
particularly within the total capital employed, save that where a material part of the retail sector.
Despite development programme is pre-let, this proportion can rise this our development to 25%.
programme continues Monitor the level of committed future capital expenditure to attract good quality tenants with on our development programme relative to the level of our Trinity Leeds 89% un-drawn debt facilities.
let prior to opening, Monitor market cycle and likely tenant demand before 20 Fenchurch Street committing to new developments.
51% pre-let ahead of its April 2014 Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital completion and and income basis.
62 Buckingham Gate Strategy of flexing size of development programme according now 10% pre-let.
to the outlook for the market cycle.
current assessment oF principal risks Inherent risk 3 1 3 The inherent and residual positioning of our principal risks are illustrated in the diagram Residual Risk 7 opposite in terms of impact and likelihood.
The inherent or gross risk is the risk that an 1 5 2 4 2 activity would pose if no controls or other 6 5 mitigating factors were in place.
The residual risk net risk is the risk that remains after controls have been taken into account.
Development Almost certain unlikely Likelihood 6.
Environment emerGinG risks High impact Emerging risks are those for which the full medium impact extent and implications are not yet fully understood.
The diagram opposite indicates Low impact 1 our current assessment of these risks in terms of the likelihood, timeframe and impact to 3 our business.
Increased financial regulation 5 6 months Time uncertain Land Securities Annual Report 2013 35 Certain Likelihood uncertain Low Impact Very high
