Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Risk management Risk management is an integral part of our financial, operational and governance activities.
The Board Board acknowledges the importance of identifying and managing risks in reducing the likelihood of financial loss and in optimising Overall responsibility for risk management shareholder returns.
By close Executive Director involvement andinternal controls inall significant business decisions, this is effectively communicated throughout the management team.
Whilst overall responsibility for identifying and managing risk rests with the Board, it has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for reviewing and monitoring the risk management and internal control framework designed, implemented and Audit Committee maintained by the Executive management team.
Reviews and evaluates risk register and internal A key part of this process is the Groups risk register, prepared by the Executive Committee and the senior management team.
Reports findings to the Board This identied each category of risk faced by the business and assesses the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring, the controls and strategy in place to mitigate it and the responsibility thereof.
The register was updated in March 2013 and will be reviewed and updated on an annual basis.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and thecontrols in place to mitigate them are set out overleaf.
Executive Committee and seniormanagement team Prepares risk register and Internal Control Evaluation Questionnaire Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 37 Performance review Risk management continued Strategic risks Risk and uncertainty Controls and mitigation The Groups strategy is unclear or Operating only in the UK minimises exposure to financial uncertainty and instability unrealistic given the economic climate inthe Eurozone.
and market within which it operates, Commission of research into the economic and occupation markets highlights leading to suboptimal returns for modications required to strategy to minimise risk.
shareholders and poorinvestment Financial forecasts are prepared and presented to the Board quarterly aligning decisions.
Property markets, particularly current strategy and the achievement ofshareholder returns.
Retail and Distribution, and economic Close involvement of the Executive Directors in transactions and day to day conditions are outside the management includes the regular review and update of financial forecasts in light Boardscontrol.
Transactional risks Risk and uncertainty Controls and mitigation Investment opportunities are missed Extensive experience and network of connections of the Directors and Executive andacquisitions underperform Committee provide a privileged insight into the property market and opportunities nancialobjectives.
within, evidenced by the recent investment activity undertaken Saturn portfolio andPrimark distribution acquisitions to deploy theGroups cash.
Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated by undertaking a detailed financial, legal andoperational appraisal process prior to Board approval.
Property valuations are snapshots in time The property portfolio performance is regularly reviewed and benchmarked on an with no certainty that they will be realised individual basis and assets that have achieved target returns are identied for sale.
Focus on secure income, let to high quality tenants, from well-located assets with increasing weighted average lease lengths reduces the risk of negative movements.
Development projects fail to deliver Exposure to developments and phasing of projects is considered as part of the expected returns due to increased costs, quarterly financial forecasting process for the Board.
planning or construction delays or Standardised appraisals and cost budgets are prepared for all developments with adverse letting conditions.
regular monitoring of actual expenditure against budget to highlight potential overruns at an early stage.
The procurement process includes tendering and the use of highly regarded rms tominimise uncertainty over costs.
Developments are only undertaken in areas of high occupier demand and significant pre-lets are secured where possible before development work commences to fide-risk projects.
38 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Financial risks Risk and uncertainty Controls and mitigation Adverse interest rate movements can A high proportion of debt is hedged with xed or capped interest rates through signicantly increase interest charged on derivative products.
At 31 March 2013 the Group had 370 million of hedges in place bank borrowings and reduce profitability.
Inability to raise finance could prohibit The Group has undrawn bank loan facilities of 37 million at 31 March 2013 and the Groups investment strategy or significant equity investment commitment from joint venture partners.
Cash ow signicantly increase borrowing costs.
requirements are reviewed by the Executive Board on a weekly basis and excellent relationships have been built with a diversied range of key lending banks.
Failure to comply with financial loan Loan covenants are actively monitored and are carefully considered and stress covenants could result from a substantial tested before entering into new arrangements.
decline in property values or a material Compliance is considered as part of the Groups financial forecasting to enable loss of rental income or increased thedetection of potential problems at an early stage and allow corrective action borrowing costs.
The Group has a modest level of gearing and has complied comfortably during 2013 with its financial loan covenants.
Operational risks Risk and uncertainty Controls and mitigation Tenant defaults and failure to let vacant Tenant covenant strength and concentration is assessed for all acquisitions and units leads to a loss of recurring net leasing transactions.
The Groups dedicated and experienced property management teamwork closelywith tenants and consider appropriate action forslow payers.
Rent collection is closely monitored and reported to the property management teamto quickly identify slow payers.
A key risk to a small management team The merger with Metric Property Investments plc brought together two very isthe ability to attract, motivate and experienced and complementary management teams.
Succession planning retain talented staff with the appropriate wasakey focus of the Nomination Committee and their recommendation for skillsets to execute the Companys thecomposition of the new Board.
The remuneration structure for all staff has been reviewed and is being aligned Executive succession planning is vital tothelong-term key performance targets of the business by the introduction toensure the long-term success of ofnewlong-term share based incentive arrangements.
The Executive Directors have a substantial equity investment in the Company.
Annualstaff appraisals are undertaken to identify training requirements and assessperformance.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 39
