38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our formula for identifying and managing risk The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising and Our process for identifying and managing risks is set out in detail on mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and customers page 51 of the Corporate Governance section.
and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its Shareholders The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing in the constantly changing environment in which we operate.
the business at the date of this Report.
These do not comprise all of the As set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 46 to 70, risks that the Group may face and are not listed in any order of priority.
the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the appropriate or deemed to be less material at the date of this Report may also have level within the business.
an adverse effect on the Group.
The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of action The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis plans to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities, and the such as litigation and financial including liquidity and credit risk, each continual monitoring of progress against agreed Key Performance of which was disclosed in previous years Annual Reports which can be Indicators KPIs are integral parts of the business process, and core found on our website at www.
We recognise that activities throughout the Group.
these risks remain important to the business and they are kept under review.
However, we have focused our disclosures on those risks that are considered to be currently more significant to the Group.
Health, safety and environment Risk: Health and safety Risk: Food safety Risk: Environment Mitigation: There is potential for accidents in the Mitigation: Compass feeds millions of consumers Mitigation: Every day, everywhere, we look to workplace.
Health and safety is our number one around the world every day, therefore setting the make a positive contribution to the world in which operational priority.
All management meetings highest standards for food hygiene and food safety we live and reduce our impact on the environment.
throughout the Group feature a health and safety is paramount.
The Group has appropriate policies, We are committed to reducing direct emissions update as their first agenda item.
Furthermore, procedures and standards in place to ensure full from our operations by 2017 and taking action health and safety improvement KPIs have been compliance with legal obligations and industry through partnerships with clients to reduce the included in the bonus plans for each of the standards.
The safety and quality of our global consumption of energy, water and waste in our business management teams effective from supply chain continue to be assured through operations.
Our Corporate Responsibility statement 1 October 2012 onwards.
compliance against a robust set of standards.
We on pages 20 to 25 describes our approach in have recently upgraded these standards and the more detail.
audit programme that underpins them to improve supply chain visibility and product integrity.
Clients and consumers Risk: Client retention Risk: Service delivery and compliance Risk: Changes in client demand Mitigation: We have strategies which strengthen with contract terms and conditions and consumer preferences our long term relationships with our clients based on Mitigation: The Groups operating companies Mitigation: We strive to meet client and consumer quality and value.
Our business model is structured contract with a large number of clients.
Processes demand for quality, choice and value by developing so that we are not reliant on one particular sector, are in place to ensure that the services delivered to innovative and nutritious food offers which suit the geography or group of clients.
clients are of an appropriate standard and comply lifestyle, tastes and spending power of our customers with the appropriate contract terms and conditions.
in todays challenging economic environment.
Risk: Consolidation of food Risk: Bidding risk and support services Mitigation: Each year, the Groups operating Mitigation: We have developed a range of support companies bid selectively for large numbers of services to complement our existing food offer.
contracts and a more limited number of concession These services are underpinned by the Compass opportunities.
A rigorous tender process is in place Service Framework, our standard operating which includes a critical assessment of contracts to platform for support services, which gives us the identify potential risks including social and ethical ability to deliver to a consistent world class standard risks and rewards, prior to approval at an globally and differentiates us from our competitors.
appropriate level in the organisation.
People Risk: Recruitment Risk: People retention and motivation Risk: Succession planning Mitigation: Failure to attract and recruit people Mitigation: Retaining and motivating the best Mitigation: Succession planning is one of the with the right skills at all levels could limit the people with the right skills is key to the long term key roles of the Board, to identify and develop success of the Group.
The Group faces resourcing success of the Group.
The Group has established employees potential and to ensure that immediate challenges in some of its businesses due to a lack of training, development, performance management and future resource is available for the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives.
industry experience and appropriately qualified and reward programmes to develop, retain and people, and the seasonal nature of some of our motivate our best people.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for business.
However, the Group aims to mitigate this making recommendations to the Board as a whole The Group has a well established employee risk by efficient, time critical resource management, engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps us in respect of Board succession.
Details can be mobilisation of existing, experienced employees found on page 48. to monitor, understand and respond to our within the organisation and through its training and employees needs.
development programmes to meet its strategic aims.
Economic environment Risk: Economy Risk: Food cost inflation Risk: Labour cost inflation Mitigation: Almost half of our business, the Mitigation: As part of our MAP framework, Mitigation: Our objective is always to deliver Healthcare & Seniors, Education and Defence, we seek to manage food price inflation through: the right level of service in the most efficient Offshore & Remote sectors, is less susceptible to cost indexation in our contracts, giving us the way.
As part of our MAP framework, we have been economic downturns.
Revenue in the remaining contractual right to review pricing with our clients: deploying tools and processes to optimise labour 51%, the Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure menu management to substitute ingredients in productivity and labour flexibility, and exercise better sectors, is more susceptible to economic conditions response to any forecast shortages and cost control over other labour costs such as absenteeism, and employment levels.
However, with the variable increases: and continuing to drive greater purchasing overtime and third party agency spend: and to and flexible nature of our cost base, it is generally efficiencies through supplier rationalisation and improve our management of salary and benefit possible to contain the impact of like for like compliance as well as understanding and reviewing costs and control labour cost inflation.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 39 Eurozone Risk: Operating performance Risk: Asset impairment Mitigation: Recent conditions in the eurozone Mitigation: Given the continued recessionary indicate that growth rates and consumer environment in the eurozone, there is pressure demand will remain under pressure for some time.
on the carrying value of our assets in this region, Approximately 15% of our revenue is generated including goodwill and receivables, with an by clients located in the eurozone.
Although the increased risk of impairment.
During our regular majority of the Groups revenue is generated outside operational reviews, we diligently consider the of this region, a prolonged recessionary environment assumptions underlying the carrying value of in the eurozone may adversely impact Group our assets, assess their recoverability and ensure revenue and operating profit.
The Company that they are appropriately stated.
The Group continues to monitor closely its operations within also performs goodwill impairment testing in all the eurozone and has in place both a cost reduction countries, at least annually, to ensure that the plan and an efficiency programme in this region to respective carrying values are adequately supported.
offset the adverse impact on profitability and to ensure that it is prepared to meet the ongoing challenges presented by the current environment.
Regulatory, political and competitive environment Risk: Regulation Risk: Political stability Risk: Competition Mitigation: Changes to laws or regulations could Mitigation: We are a global business operating Mitigation: We operate in a competitive adversely affect our performance.
We engage with in countries and regions with diverse economic marketplace.
The level of concentration and governments and non-governmental organisations and political conditions.
Our operations and outsource penetration varies by country and by directly or through appropriate trade associations to earnings may be adversely affected by political sector.
Some markets are relatively concentrated ensure that our views are represented.
The Group remains vigilant with two or three key players, others are highly risk is also considered as part of our annual to future changes presented by emerging markets fragmented and offer significant opportunities business planning process.
We engage with for consolidation and penetration into the selfgovernments and non-governmental organisations operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our to ensure the views of our stakeholders are competitors could cause a reduction in our represented and we try to anticipate and contribute revenues and margins.
We aim to minimise this to important changes in public policy.
by continuing to promote our differentiated propositions by focusing on our points of strength such as flexibility in our cost base, quality and value of service as well as continuing to innovate in the variety and quality of our services to clients.
Acquisitions and investments Risk: Acquisition and investment risk Risk: Joint ventures Mitigation: Capital investments and potential Mitigation: In some countries we operate through acquisitions are subject to appropriate levels of due joint ventures which, if not managed effectively, diligence and approval.
Post acquisition integration could cause damage to the Groups reputation.
and performance is closely managed and subject Procedures are in place to ensure that joint venture to regular review.
partners bring skills, experience and resources that complement and add to those provided from within the Group.
Fraud and compliance risk Reputation risk Pensions risk Mitigation: Ineffective compliance management Mitigation: Our brands are amongst the most Mitigation: There are inherent funding risks associated with the provision of final salary could have an adverse effect on the Groups successful and best established in our industry.
reputation and could result in significant financial They represent a key element of the Groups overall pensions.
Whilst we continue to operate some marketing and positioning.
In the event that our defined benefit schemes both in the UK and penalties being levied or a criminal action being brought against the Company or its Directors.
The brands or reputation are damaged this could overseas, other than where required by local adversely impact the Groups performance.
The regulation or statute, these schemes are closed Groups zero tolerance based Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics govern all aspects of our Groups zero tolerance based Codes of Business to new entrants.
Further information is set out in Conduct and Ethics are designed to safeguard the note 23 of the consolidated financial statements relationship with our stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Codes are investigated.
The Companys assets, brands and reputation.
Groups procedures include regular operating reviews, underpinned by a continual focus on ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Tax risk Information Technology Cyber risk Mitigation: As a Group, we seek to plan and Mitigation: The digital world creates many risks manage our tax affairs efficiently in the jurisdictions for a global business including technology failures, in which we operate.
In doing so, we act in loss of confidential data and damage to brand compliance with the relevant laws and disclosure reputation.
We seek to assess and manage the requirements.
In an increasingly complex maturity of our enterprise risk and security international tax environment, a degree of infrastructure and our ability to effectively defend uncertainty is inevitable.
However, we exercise against current and future cyber risks by using our judgement and seek appropriate professional analysis tools and experienced professionals to advice when calculating our tax liabilities and evaluate and mitigate potential impacts.
The Group forecasting the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage The effective rate of tax may be influenced by a and deliver services and communicate with our number of factors, including changes in laws and customers, suppliers and employees.
We are accounting standards, which could increase the focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness rate and the Group actively monitors these factors of our information systems and technology as a to identify the potential impact.
business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as a result.
