44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Finance Directors statement Risks and uncertainties The Board takes a proactive approach to risk management with the aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests of the Group and its Shareholders.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the activities the Group undertakes to mitigate these are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Shareholder return The market price of the Groups ordinary shares at the close of the financial year was 850.00 pence per share 2012: 683.50 pence per share.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report, as is the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities.
In addition, note 20 of the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with longer term contracts with a number of clients and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dominic Blakemore Group Finance Director 27 November 2013 The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 44, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board Mark J White General Counsel and Company Secretary 27 November 2013
