Our risk management approach The Board of Directors is responsible for coverage annually.
To innovate our Services offerings reviewing and monitoring the Companys risk under consideration, the risk owner to build future growth opportunities risk management process and internal presents on the risk, the potential customer We will continue to adapt our Services control systems.
The Board has considered and internal impacts, the mitigations, what offerings to meet the requirements the nature and extent of the risks it is has changed and is changing, triggers, and of our customers as they are driven by willing to take in pursuit of the Groups key metrics.
The Group Risk Committee changes in the deployment and use strategic objectives.
challenges what has been presented and of technology.
collectively agrees an assessment of the Our risk appetite status of the risk and the mitigations.
We have a healthy risk appetite where The risk identification and assessment we understand the risks based on our The minutes from the Group Risk process gave rise to 13 principal risks this experience in, and knowledge of, our Committee, along with the current status year, which make up our formal Group Risk business.
Conversely, we have a low of each principal risk, are reported to the Log.
This is set out on pages 14 and 15 of appetite for risk where we have less Audit Committee and to the Board.
Our principal risks continue to knowledge, experience and understanding 2014 going forward, at each Board meeting be concentrated around the availability of the accompanying exposures.
following a quarterly Group Risk Committee and resilience of systems, our people, meeting, there is a Board agenda item to We balance risk appetite with opportunities for our cost base, technology change, and in discuss, for each principal risk covered, further business development, and long-term the design, take-on, and running of large the effectiveness of the mitigations and customer satisfaction.
Our risk appetite is Services contracts.
safeguards, the level of challenge applied, managed through the Matters Reserved The likelihood and impact of our principal and whether the management assessment for the Board and related operational risks are shown on the heat map below, with of the current status remains appropriate.
This is an intrinsic the highest likelihood and highest impact part of our risk management approach.
Our strategic objectives and risks sitting in the upper right section, and principal risks Our overall aim is to embed and evolve risk the lowest likelihood and lowest impact management to support the achievement risks sitting in the lower left section.
To lead with and grow our of our strategic objectives.
Services business The annual risk identification and We will grow the level of our Services assessment process is integrated with the offerings, which we provide to large and Risk Heat Map strategic planning process.
The process medium-sized international enterprises starts with the Board setting the strategic which are headquartered in Western objectives for the Group.
The Board and the Europe, and will serve these enterprises in Group Executive Committee then consider their home markets and globally.
L the barriers to achieving the strategic 2.
To improve our Services productivity C objectives and, in turn, assess the level of and enhance our competitiveness risk in the context of our defined risk E We will continue to reduce our costs appetite.
This top-down key risk assessment D and increase the efficiency of our Services H process is linked through the Group Risk M A operations through the industrialisation Committee to a Group-wide, bottom-up of our processes and the development business risk assessment process.
There is of our tools to increase productivity.
G clear linkage between the two approaches, B I with the bottom-up risks mapping to a risk 3.
To retain and maximise the J appearing on the top-down Group Risk relationship with our customers Log.
The risk management framework is over the long term shown on the page opposite.
While we will lead with our Services F K offerings, we will develop: i the The principal risks are subject to robust relationships we have with our Vendor challenge on the effectiveness of the Partners and, ii the ability of our people Impact mitigations and safeguards.
This challenge to ensure that our customers are aware is delivered at the highest level through the of, and have access to, the full range of Group Risk Committee which is comprised Alert status down capabilities that we can provide them with.
of senior management and Country Heads.
Alert status up We will also aim to develop our referenceOn a cyclical basis, a selection of principal Alert status holding ability and repeat business through risks is considered at each meeting of the the achievement of high levels of Group Risk Committee to ensure complete customer satisfaction.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 12 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Likelihood Strategic priorities Business model Group Operating Model Risk KPIs Risk management framework The Board Sets strategic objectives Has overall responsibility Monitors risk exposure in Top down for the Groups risk pursuit of our strategic Identification and Defines risk appetite management process and objectives assessment of internal control systems risk by senior management Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Internal Audit Reviews the Sets the risk Internal Audit plans are effectiveness of our risk management process focused on providing identification and risk assurance on our Provides oversight management process principal risks to assist and challenge on the the Audit Committee Reviews the effectiveness of risk in its review of the effectiveness of internal mitigation for our effectiveness of the risk control systems principal risks management process and of our internal Supports the Board Considers emerging control systems in monitoring risk risks and also exposure high-impact low-likelihood risks Operational level Bottom up Identification, Group-wide risk Ongoing monitoring of Internal controls assessment and identification and mitigations performed embedded across mitigation of risk for assessment across the Group through the Group business and functional management, key areas, delivered through performance indicators our Group Operating and review by the appropriate Risk Manager Model Computacenter plc Annual Report and 13 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Our risk management approach continued Principal Principal Impacts Primary risks impacts strategic mitigations objective A Failure s leading to Customer 1 & 2 All centrally-hosted systems are built and unacceptably long outages dissatisfaction operated on High Availability infrastructure.
or regular short outages of Financial penalties Enhanced Group IS support models, with key our customer-facing Contract Operations and Applications staff on call 24x7 to systems.
cancellations respond quickly in the event of failures or issues.
Reputational damage B Not recruiting and retaining Customer 1, 2, 3 & 4 We perform regular remuneration benchmarking to the right calibre of staff dissatisfaction ensure we remain competitive.
across any of our Financial penalties We invest in management development customer-facing functions.
cancellations There is an annual staff survey to understand Reputational employee views.
damage We have implemented a series of staff retention initiatives.
C We fail to implement Reduced margin 1 & 4 The Group Operating Model is in place in the UK and appropriate designs and Loss-making Germany, and is in the process of being deployed pricing structures for contracts in France.
This incorporates mandatory gateway Managed Services or Customer governance products and processes, as well as outcome based project dissatisfaction the Group signing policy.
Financial penalties There is Board oversight of significant bids.
Contract cancellations Reputational damage D Inadequate succession Lack of leadership 1 & 4 Board consideration of succession plans.
planning and not enough Management development programmes to management depth within develop talent.
key senior management areas of the business.
E Letting our direct costs run Reduced margin 1 & 2 We employ a range of metrics on a monthly and out of control and not quarterly basis to ensure that we properly manage taking advantage of our direct costs and monitor productivity.
productivity and cost We have a programme of activities to deliver cost reduction opportunities.
reduction opportunities, through the reduction of manual effort.
F Reduced margin 1, 3 & 4 We mitigate this through a range of measures Technology change Excess including win loss reviews, senior management dramatically reduces operational staff forums and strategy reviews where we consider customer need and Contracts not our offerings alongside where the market is going.
demand for our Service renewed offerings.
G Failure to deliver and Reduced margin 1 & 3 Annual senior management review of manage effectively our Customer our international business and team.
international business dissatisfaction In relation to our partner network we strategies.
By association Financial penalties have upgraded our contracts and have the risk around take-on Contract increased the level of monitoring activity.
and management of our cancellations international partners.
Reputational damage Computacenter plc Annual Report and 14 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Strategic priorities Business model Group Operating Model Risk KPIs Principal Principal Impacts Primary risks impacts strategic mitigations objective H Failure to develop a Loss of synergies 1 & 2 Deployment of Group Operating Model Group culture.
Loss of brand resulting in consistent ways of working.
identity Initiatives to reduce in-country barriers.
I Letting our inventory and or Financial impact 2 We mitigate these risks through a range of measures receivables get out of through obsolete including: monthly and quarterly metrics, credit control.
stock and or scoring and credit limits for customers, and bad debts utilisation of direct delivery where possible.
J A security hacking or virus Customer 1, 2 and 4 We have well-communicated Group policies problem at a customer that dissatisfaction for information security and virus prevention.
is due to Computacenters Financial penalties There is specific induction and training for staff negligence, Contract working on customer sites systems, as well as mismanagement or cancellations specific policies and procedures for anyone employee rogue behaviour Reputational working behind a customer firewall.
leading to a breach and or damage loss of data.
K Not fully understanding Reduced margin 2 Our Group Legal team review all bids that involve employment terms and staff transfer.
conditions and the We build the effects of transferring staff into our cost obligations on and pricing models, and seek to build commercial Computacenter resulting terms into new contracts to minimise impact.
from transferring staff into the Company.
L Failure to deliver against Customer 1, 2 & 4 The Group Operating Model is in place in the UK and contract during dissatisfaction Germany, and is in the process of being deployed transformation and Financial penalties in France.
This incorporates mandatory gateway committed Service Contract governance products and processes, as well as productivity improvements cancellations the Group signing policy and Service management and Service levels in Reputational best practice.
contract life leading to damage We have an increasingly mature root cause penalty clauses or financial Reduced margin analysis and lessons learnt process for underachievement complex transformations.
and a lack of Service or We perform regular commercial and contract deep technical innovation.
dives to manage Service productivity improvements.
M Not investing appropriately Reduced margin 1, 2 & 4 This is linked to Risk F we mitigate this through or over investing in the Win less new a range of measures including win loss reviews, wrong automation, business senior management forums and strategy reviews self-service and remote Contracts not where we consider our offerings alongside our tools when compared to renewed competitors and where the market is going.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 15 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
