32 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS MANAGING RISK IS CENTRAL TO OUR SUCCESS The Group recognises that its ability to manage risk consistently across the organisation is central to its success.
Risk management ensures a structured approach to decision making that aims to reduce the uncertainty surrounding expected outcomes, balanced against the objective of creating value for our shareholders.
RISK APPETITE FINANCIAL RISK The Group maintains a low to moderate appetite for The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually and financial risk in general, with a very low appetite for risks approved by the Board in order to guide management.
Our risk appetite is equally applicable to wholly-owned As an income-focused REIT we have a low appetite for operations and joint venture interests.
risks which could impact growth in earnings and dividends Whilst our appetite for risk will vary over time and during over the long term.
We are, however, prepared to tolerate the course of the property cycle, in general the Group a temporary reduction in dividend cover as a consequence maintains a fairly low appetite for risk, appropriate to our of our strategic portfolio reshaping programme.
strategic objectives of delivering a low risk progressive Our appetite for risks to net asset value from the factors dividend stream, supported by long-term growth in net within our control is low, albeit acknowledging that our asset value per share.
appetite for moderate leverage across the cycle somewhat Risks are considered under the headings of property, amplies the impact of asset valuation movements.
CORPORATE RISK PROPERTY RISK We have a very low appetite for risks which could We recognise that in seeking above average rental and undermine how we are regarded by our investors, capital growth from our portfolio, the Group must accept regulators, employees, customers, business partners, abalanced level of property risk.
suppliers, lenders and by the wider communities and environments in which we operate.
Our target portfolio composition, principally of well specified and located modern assets, should deliver attractive low risk income returns with above average rental and capital growth when market conditions are positive and show relative resilience in a downturn.
We aimto enhance these returns through development, whilst seeking to ensure that the income drag associated with holding land for future development does not outweigh the potential benets.
In line with our income focus, we have a low appetite for risks to income from customer defaults, and accordingly seek occupiers with strong covenants and avoid over-exposure to individual occupiers in inexible, bespoke properties.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 33 APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK Risks are considered within each area of the business, taking into account both the unmitigated risk assuming The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that that no controls are in place and residual risk with risk is effectively managed across the Group.
The Audit mitigating controls operating normally.
The most Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk significant risks are detailed in the Group Risk Register.
management process on behalf of the Board.
Each risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who then works with a senior manager who is The risk management process is designed to identify, responsible for the monitoring and mitigation of that risk evaluate and mitigate the significant risks that the Group within appetite.
Communication across a relatively small faces.
The process aims to understand and mitigate, management team, and regular consideration of risk at key rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business management committees, allows management to respond objectives, and therefore can only provide reasonable and quickly to changing events so as to reduce any adverse not absolute assurance.
effects on the Groups risk prole.
Appetite towards risk is considered at Board meetings The Group has a Risk Management Committee whenever significant strategic, financial or operational responsible for regularly reviewing the Group Risk decisions are made, and is a key part of ongoing Register, monitoring the most important controls and discussions about strategy.
Risk appetite is also formally prioritising risk management activities.
The Executive reviewed by the Board annually.
Committee considers emerging risks and their impact on Whilst the nature of the principal risks faced by the the Group Risk Register.
The Board reviews the principal Group do not tend to change substantially from year to risks twice a year and the Audit Committee receives a year, their degree of impact and likelihood may change report twice a year on how the Group Risk Register has more signicantly.
The Board recognises that it has limited control over many Details of the principal risks facing the Group are set of the external risks it faces, such as the macro-economic out overleaf.
environment, but it reviews the impact of such risks on the business and actively considers them in its decisionmaking.
For example, during 2013, the Board regularly considered the market cycle and its impact on investment decisions of all types.
The Board also monitors internal risks and ensures that controls are in place to manage them.
For example, during 2013, the Board reviewed the Groups health and safety policies and approved a more specic statement of the Groups risk appetite.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL RISKS The principal risks that the Group reported last year have evolved in nature, as has the Groups response to them.
The principal risks have the potential to affect SEGROs Consideration of the Groups current risk environment, as business materially either favourably or unfavourably.
well as its strategic priorities, has resulted in four additional Risks are classied as principal according to their potential risks now being classied as principal risks: Counterparty to exceed our appetite and cause material harm to default, Financial leverage, Interest rates and Regulatory the Group.
Furthermore, the Health & Safety risk previously incorporated within Operational delivery risk Some risks may be unknown at present, and other risks isnow classied as principal.
that are currently regarded as immaterial and therefore not detailed here, could turn out to be material in the future.
Two risks have been fide-classied as principal risks since last year: Pace of Strategic Change and the Portfolio The current principal risks facing the Group are described Valuation risk of failing to anticipate valuation changes.
across the following pages, along with the potential areas In both cases the re-classication reects both the of impact on the Groups strategy and the principal substantial progress made to date in portfolio reshaping: activities that are in place to mitigate and manage such and that the ongoing risks now faced are addressed risks.
The direction of change in the level of the risk withinthe Portfolio Strategy risk.
duringthe course of 2013 is indicated, along with an assessment of whether the risk is within our appetite, andlinks to further relevant information provided in othersections of this report.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 35 KEY DISCIPLINED OPER A TIONAL EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION EXCELLENCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE PROPERTY RISKS Risks to achieving above average rental and capital growth from our portfolio, including external market and competitive conditions, portfolio strategy, and execution of acquisitions and disposals.
RISK IMPACT CHANGE MITIGATIONS RESIDUAL FURTHER INFORMATION ON IN RISK WITHIN STRATEGY 2013 APPETITE?
The Board, Executive Committee Yes The market outlook is detailed in the MARKET CYCLE and Investment Committee monitor Chief Executives Review on page 23.
The property market is cyclical and the property market cycle on a there is an inherent continuous continual basis and adapt the Groups risk that the Group could either capital investment divestment misinterpret the market or fail to react strategy in anticipation of changing appropriately to changing market market conditions.
conditions, which could result in capital being invested or disposals Independent sources of investment taking place at the wrong price or and occupier market intelligence are time in the cycle.
This is continuous risk with a moderate likelihood.
The Groups portfolio strategy is Yes Further information is contained in PORTFOLIO STRATEGY subject to an annual review by the theChief Executives review on pages The Groups Total Property and Board to consider the desired shape 14 to 23. or Shareholder Returns could of portfolio in order to meet the underperform in absolute or relative Groups overall objectives and to terms as a result of an inappropriate determine our response to changing portfolio strategy.
This could result opportunities and market conditions.
from: The Groups disciplined capital t Holding the wrong balance of allocation is informed by prime or secondary assets: comprehensive asset plans and t Holding the wrong amounts or independent external assessments types of land, leading to diluted ofmarket conditions and forecasts.
returns and or constraints on development opportunities: t Holding the wrong level of opportunity assets or too many old or obsolete assets which dilute returns: t Missing opportunities in new markets or a lack of critical mass in existing markets.
This is continuous risk with a moderate likelihood, reducing as the Groups portfolio reshaping programme progresses.
Asset plans are prepared annually Yes Further information is contained in EXECUTION OF for all estates to determine where to theChief Executives review on pages INVESTMENTPLANS invest capital in existing assets andto 14 to 23.
Decisions to buy, hold, sell or identify assets for disposal.
develop assets could be awed A Capital Investment Policy is in due to uncertainty in analysis and place to govern evaluation, due assumptions, poor due diligence or diligence, approval and execution unexpected changes in the economic ofinvestment activity.
Our investment decisions could be The Investment Committee meets insufficiently responsive to implement frequently to exercise control our strategy effectively.
and to make timely decisions on capital allocation.
This is continuous risk with a moderate likelihood as changing Investment hurdle rates are regularly investment and occupier reappraised based on consensus market conditions require estimates of our weighted average constant adaptation.
Major capital investment and disposal decisions are subject to Board approval.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Risks to the costs, cash ows, equity capital and solvency of the Group resulting from the capital structure of the Group and changes in external factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the creditworthiness of the Groups major financial counterparties.
Future funding requirements and Yes significant headroom exists against all SOLVENCY AND covenant headroom, including financial covenants.
Property valuations COVENANT BREACH sensitivity to asset valuation declines, would need to fall by around 35 per A substantial fall in the Groups are closely monitored by the Group cent from their 31 December 2013 property asset values or rental Treasury function, the Finance values to reach the gearing covenant income levels could lead to a breach Committee which reports to the threshold of 160 per cent.
of financial covenants within its debt Groups Executive Committee and the funding arrangements.
This could Further details of Treasury Policy, Board.
Group Treasury calculate actual lead to a cancellation of debt funding funding headroom, financial covenant levels and headroom with sensitivities which could, in turn, leave the Group ratios and related headroom and to financial covenants on a quarterly without sufficient long-term resources sensitivities are provided in the basis and review non-financial solvency to meet its commitments.
Financial Review on pages 48 to 55. covenants on an ongoing basis.
This is a medium term risk with The Audit Committee reviews avery low likelihood.
the Groups going concern status biannually.
In line with its Treasury policy, the Group maintains substantial undrawn headroom under committed bank facilities which are generally renanced well ahead of maturity.
We remain alert to the potential Yes France represents 8%, Germany 7%, EUROZONE ECONOMIC financial and operational risks to the Netherlands Belgium 5% and Italy ENVIRONMENT business arising from a deterioration in 2% of the Groups assets.
Poland, The risk of a significant adverse economic conditions in the Eurozone.
which also involves exposure to the impact to the Groups earnings, net We continue to maintain a high level Euro, represents a further 6% of the asset value or financial covenants of currency translation hedging against Groups assets.
arising from a disorderly default the impact of a weaker euro and to and partial or full break-up of the Treasury policies are outlined closely monitor our exposure to major Euro zone.
intheFinancial Review on page 52. tenants in the Eurozone.
This is a short to medium-term risk Geographically, the portfolio is located with a low and declining likelihood.
predominantly in the relatively stronger European economies.
The Group has targeted a lookYes Gearing is discussed in the Financial FINANCIAL LEVERAGE through LTV ratio of around 40% in Review on page 53.
The Group could maintain an the longer term.
Gearing levels are inappropriate capital structure.
also tracked and forecast internally Financial leverage usually expressed to monitor headroom against as the LTV ratio, but in financial financial covenants.
The LTV target is covenants dened as gearing considered in strategic planning and in needs to be managed depending asset recycling decisions.
The Groups on the direction of the economic look-through LTV ratio was 42% at and property market cycle.
If 31 December, 2013: however, given gearing is too high when property where we are in the property cycle and valuations are falling, net asset value given the scope for further disposals, movements can be exacerbated it is prepared to ex LTV temporarily and financial covenants put at risk.
upwards to take advantage of attractive Equally, if gearing is too conservative, investment opportunities if necessary.
there is a risk that attractive growth opportunities could be missed.
This is a medium to long-term risk with a low and declining likelihood.
New Fixed interest cover is maintained Yes Interest rate hedging is detailed INTEREST RATES between 50% and 100% of net intheFinancial Review on page 54.
A significant adverse movement debt in order to balance the cost and in interest rates could have an certainty of interest cost.
The position unacceptable impact on the is formally reviewed quarterly by the Groups earnings, on investment Finance Committee.
market conditions or on tenant covenant strength.
This is a long-term risk with amoderate likelihood.
Previously incorporated within Solvency and covenant breach SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 37 KEY DISCIPLINED OPER A TIONAL EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION EXCELLENCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE FINANCIAL RISKS CONTINUED RISK IMPACT CHANGE MITIGATIONS RESIDUAL FURTHER INFORMATION ON IN RISK WITHIN STRATEGY 2013 APPETITE?
New Counterparties are accepted based on Yes Treasury policies are outlined in the COUNTERPARTY DEFAULT a strict credit rating criteria a minimum Financial Review on page 52.
A bank or other counterparty long-term credit rating of Aor could default while holding SEGRO better.
Compliance with the policy deposits or derivative assets, resulting is monitored daily by both front and in a significant financial loss to the back-ofce for Group Treasury.
This could also include the loss of solvency headroom from lost undrawn committed bank facilities.
Although SEGRO has increased its liquidity in 2013, this is considered to be a long-term risk with a low likelihood.
CORPORATE RISKS Risks to business performance, legal and regulatory compliance, health and safety, environmental impact, reputation and business continuity arising from external factors or inadequate internal processes, people or systems.
The Group maintains a strong Yes During 2013 the Group increased OPERATIONAL DELIVERY focus on Operational Excellence.
its investment in key customer The Groups ability to protect The Executive and Operations relationship management, and default its reputation, revenues and Committees regularly monitor the risk management.
shareholder value could be damaged range of risks to operational delivery, by operational failures such as: compliance, business continuity, environmental damage: failing to organisational effectiveness and attract, retain and motivate key staff: a customer management.
breach of anti-bribery and corruption or other legislation: major customer default or supply chain failure.
This is a continuous risk with a very low likelihood of causing significant distress to the Group.
The Group manages an active Yes HEALTH AND SAFETY health and safety management Health and safety management system, with a particular focus processes could fail, leading to a loss on managing the quality and of life, litigation, fines and serious compliance to good health and reputational damage to the Group.
safety practice of construction and This is a continuous risk with a low maintenance contractors.
likelihood of causing significant distress A published health and safety to the Group.
The higher prole policy is backed up by independent of this risk is due to the increased site inspections, staff and scale of the Groups development contractor training.
Emerging risks in this category are Yes REGULATORY reviewed regularly by the Executive ENVIRONMENT Committee, Finance Committee and The Group could fail to anticipate Group Risk Committee.
legal or regulatory changes, leading Corporate heads of function consult to a significant un-forecasted financial with external advisers, attend industry or reputational impact.
and specialist briengs, and sit on key This is a medium to long term risk industry bodies such as EPRA and BPF.
with a low likelihood of causing significant distress to the Group.
A number of potential risks were identied, assessed and managed during the course of the year.
None were assessed as being material enough to be classied asPrincipal Risks.
Previously incorporated within Operational delivery
