Principal risks and uncertainties 48 The Groups strategy is to operate in a low-risk environment.
We invest only in Londons West End, where the property market has a long record of resilience and stability.
The nature of our portfolio does not expose us to risks inherent in major speculative development schemes and we manage our Balance Sheet on a conservative basis with moderate leverage and good interest cover.
Operational and financial risks facing the Group are monitored through a process of regular assessment by the executive team, and are reported to, and discussed at, meetings of the Audit Committee and Board.
Our principal strategic risks have remained broadly unchanged over the year and relate to issues which might prevent us from achieving our long-term goals of creating sustainable revenue growth and increasing the value of the portfolio and shareholders investment in the business.
RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION RiSk oF A SUSTAiNED FALL iN ViSiToR NUMBERS AND oR SPENDiNG WHiCH AFFECTS: 1 The West End ExTERNAL THREATS Events which discourage visitors, such as threats to security or public Such events, faced by all high-profile locations such as London, are safety due to terrorism, health concerns such as an influenza pandemic, often beyond the Groups control, and are an inherent risk in the Groups or disruption to the public transport network on which the area depends,  investment strategy.
Over time, if a fall in visitors was both However, the Group has an active policy of working with many local sustained and significant, this could lead to a reduction in occupier bodies and statutory authorities to maximise the safety of visitors to demand and the rental potential and value of the Groups property assets.
the West End and its villages.
We have detailed emergency response plans in place for each village.
The Group has insurance in place which would meet the cost of physical destruction of its property assets resulting from a terrorist event, and would also reimburse the Group for up to four years loss of income.
The West Ends prosperity, reputation and growth - page 10.
COMPETING DESTINATIONS Competition from other locations results in long-term decline in footfall The West End has a wide and enduring appeal.
More than just a and consequently rents and values.
shopping destination, its variety of theatres, cinemas, parks, museums, galleries and leisure venues attract unrivalled numbers of visitors, compared with shopping centres outside the West End.
We are not complacent and recognise that these visitors, and the local working and resident communities, have a choice of where to shop and spend their leisure time.
We ensure that our villages maintain a distinct identity and seek out new concepts, brands and ideas to keep our villages interesting.
Prosperity for tenants and sustainable rental growth - page 12.
2 our villages We fail to maintain the special character and or tenant mix in our We have a consistent strategy on tenant mix, recognising the need for villages which is key to attracting visitors and potential occupiers.
Fostering, developing and promoting the unique character of our villages are key aspects of our business model.
We Our tenants prosperity suffers because of a sustained consequential maintain a regular open dialogue with tenants and, being close to our decrease in footfall which results in downward pressure on rents.
portfolio, we have a deep understanding of the environment needed by our tenants to prosper.
The Group invests in areas where rental values are initially low relative to surrounding areas.
The overall village management strategies we adopt eg tenant selection, village reputation management, promotional activity, refurbishment schemes, public realm improvements etc are designed to create prosperous locations where higher rents are sustainable.
Our management team is experienced and is incentivised to deliver sustainable growth in rents.
The Board continually monitors individual village performance and prospects.
Prosperity for tenants and sustainable rental growth - page 12. key performance indicators page 13.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 49 RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION REGULAToRY RiSk Increasing regulation and its unforeseen consequences causes uncertainty.
Changes in national and local policies and regulation could increase costs, adversely limit our ability to optimise revenues and affect our values.
PLANNING POLICIES All of the Groups properties are located within the jurisdictions of The Group works closely with both local authorities to ensure that its Westminster City Council and the London Borough of Camden.
Changes properties are operated in a manner which complies with their local to their policies, particularly those relating to planning and licensing, policies and statutes.
could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to maximise the The Group makes representations to both authorities regarding long-term potential of its assets.
proposed policy changes so that its views and practical experiences are considered in framing policy.
The portfolio has a mix of uses so the Group is not reliant on income from one particular use.
Engaging with stakeholders and the local community - page 13.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION Legislation which is intended to bring about improvements to the Our buildings, which on average are over 150 years old, are situated environmental standards of buildings may impose obligations on owners in historic areas of Londons West End.
All our villages are within of older buildings which conflict with the existing legal requirements conservation areas and many of our properties are listed as being of governing conservation areas and listed buildings.
Such legislation may restrict the future use of older buildings by making We endeavour to improve the environmental performance of our them subject to standards of environmental performance which cannot buildings within the constraints imposed by current conservation area be met because the changes required would be inconsistent with and listed buildings legislation.
existing legislation for listed buildings and conservation areas.
We are assisting with studies to identify new approaches to improving the environmental performance of older buildings and to develop refurbishment standards which are appropriate to their special status.
VALUATioN RiSk The valuation of property assets includes assumptions regarding the The Group has chosen to invest in property assets in a particular income expectations and yields that investors would expect to achieve location and with uses which have, historically, demonstrated a much on those assets over time.
Many external economic and market factors, lower degree of valuation volatility than the wider market.
such as interest rate expectations, bond yields, the availability and cost As part of its regular internal reporting, the Group reviews quarterly of finance and the relative attraction of property against other asset forecasts of compliance with value-related banking covenants and the classes, could lead to a reappraisal of the assumptions used to arrive at extent to which values could fall before any asset-related covenant current valuations.
In adverse conditions, this reappraisal can lead to a would be breached.
The Group has a substantial pool of uncharged reduction in property values and a loss in net asset value, amplified by assets which could be used to top up the security held by its existing the effect of gearing.
Such reduction in property values and loss of net debt providers.
asset value could result in the Group being unable to meet the The West Ends prosperity, reputation and growth - page 10. asset-related covenants contained in its various finance agreements.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report
