Our Risks Effective management of our risks and opportunities helps us to achieve our strategic objectives, protects our people, local communities and our reputation, and demonstrates good corporate governance.
It is essential to creating and protecting value for our shareholders and customers in line with our business model.
Our Risk Management Framework We implement a structured risk management framework across We rank risks by combining their economic, operational or environmental the Group.
This includes a standard set of risk categories and impact and how likely they are to occur.
We do this both before and after definitions, together with a process to analyse and manage risk we identify ways to mitigate the risks.
The table below illustrates how we which are interpreted at all levels of the organisation.
allocate risk management responsibilities within this framework.
Board Of Directors Ensures maintenance of a sound system of internal control Ensures nature and extent of risks we take are aligned with and risk management.
Defines risks and monitors risk exposures.
Audit Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposures by directing controls and risk management systems.
Internal Audit to perform reviews over key risk areas.
Reviews the reliance placed by management on mitigating controls of key risks, including both internal and external assurance.
Risk Management Committee Internal Audit Considers external and Evaluates whether risks have Features, for each key risk, a Supports the emerging risks and their escalated and require further nominated Executive Audit Committee relevance to the Group.
Commitee member who has by providing responsibility for ensuring best assurance over Assesses all risk reviews to Evaluates controls and practice and continuous the effectiveness identify Group-wide impacts procedures to mitigate progress for their risk.
of the mitigating and trends.
controls identified for key risks.
Reports to the Audit Committee Regions & Functions on a quarterly Include finance, legal, SHEQ, Undertakes a full review of The SHEQ Commitee meets basis.
risks and mitigating controls every quarter to review and Group Risk and over these, at least half yearly.
report on SHEQ risks, controls, Manages risks involved in Control Manager audits and KPIs.
day-to-day operations Allocates an owner to co-ordinates through Regional Boards & monitor and manage each reporting and steering groups.
provides updates to both the Audit Committee and the Board.
Manufacturing & Selling Locations Manages the risks involved in Undertakes a full review of Allocates an owner to day-to-day operations at risks, and mitigating controls monitor and manage each location.
over these, at least annually.
24 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Bottom Up Top Down STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda How Our Risk Management Process Evolved in 2013 Risk and Sustainability In 2013 we undertook a risk assurance mapping exercise for each of the As part of our sustainability strategy, we have identified ten key risks.
This involved documenting on a single page, the governance and Material Areas that identify the opportunities around the global policy frameworks: business, management and external controls: drivers of change, the three market mega trends and the related reporting and monitoring processes undertaken to mitigate each risk to an risks.
Together, they will help us to turn potential negatives into acceptable level.
The exercise also allowed us to identify whether controls positives and drive our future growth.
were adequate and appropriate and that there were no gaps in control.
The results of the exercise were shared with the Board and the Audit Committee and will form the basis of Internal Audit work in 2014.
Also in 2013, we clarified the split of responsibility for risk management P12 Our Market Place between the Board and the Audit Committee, and we have further integrated risk identification into the strategy process.
P28 See SR Material Areas For more information please see the Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 49.
Our Key Risks Risk Initiatives Risks affect every area of our business.
Their exact nature and potential The understanding and mitigation of our key risks to a level with which impact is changing all the time.
Regular reviews mean we can identify the the Board is comfortable is always a business priority and to help risks that could knock our strategy off course and put in place controls to us do this in 2013 we introduced a number of key risk management mitigate their negative effects.
initiatives, including: Our risks fall into two main areas: Increasing focus in emerging markets by appointing an Managing Director of Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, as part of a broader Fundamental Risks: those that, if we did not successfully manage them, strategy to create new director positions in other key markets.
would mean we would not have a business at all.
They refer to our ability New and expanded R&D facilities, sales and customer training facilities to operate a sustainable, safe and legal business.
Strategic Risks: those that arise as a result of our strategic objectives.
Increasing chemical regulatory compliance by rolling out SAP Environment, Health and Safety software globally, and reviewing the The table on pages 26 and 27 shows the key risks that we have identified impact of the K-REACH chemicals management system.
in 2013 and the change in risk ranking compared with 2012.
These risks represent the Board and Excecutive Committees view of the risks posing Addressing the risk of increasing raw material shortage through the biggest threat to our business, scoring highest on our pre-control risk ongoing review of sustainable supply arrangements for key raw table.
They are all related to the different sections of the business model materials.
and are driven by business objectives.
Of course we face other risks and Ensuring that we have the talent our business depends upon by uncertainties, but these have either been assessed as lower risk and so training and developing new regional sales and marketing teams to are not included here, or are beyond the direct control of the Group.
All support our growth in emerging markets, and holding regular network risks remain under regular review by the Board and the Risk Management meetings for our engineers.
Committee and if their possible impact or the likelihood of occurence Establishing the Technology Investment Group to explore new and changes, they would be reclassified as a key risk.
exciting ways of bringing new technologies into the Group.
Additional Priority Change Since 2012 Strengthening our product portfolio by acquiring Sipo and the speciality The Currency exchange rate movements risk is no longer viewed as a key chemicals business of Arizona Chemical.
risk in 2013 though remaining under regular review.
Although exchange Working towards ISO27001 certification Information Security rate movements can have a significant impact on reported results, given Management standard.
the nature of currency fluctuations it is unlikely that there would be a sustained material impact over a period of years.
Whilst we believe we implement pragmatic controls to manage this risk, we also recognise that to a large extent this risk, along with other macroeconomic risks, is largely outside our control.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Our Risks Key Risk How it Could Impact Our Business How We Respond Product and technology We operate in competitive markets where product We have unrivalled understanding of, and contact with, innovation innovation is key to our success.
This allows us to ensure that our innovation is market led and relevant to our customers Failing to deliver innovation could result in a lack of needs.
competitive products, erosion of margins and or loss of market share.
We have 18 R&D centres globally to ensure that P16 innovation can take place close to the customer.
Identification and integration of To meet our strategic objectives we must pursue We have established policies and put processes in place to: merger and acquisition targets acquisitions.
Realising anticipated benefits from these manage acquisitions and the associated due diligence acquisitions depends on how well we integrate them and prior to acquisition: how well they perform in relation to our expectations.
integrate acquired businesses: and monitor performance.
P16 Revenue generation in Our core markets are subject to increasing competition.
We have specialised commercial sales teams worldwide established markets and a commitment to protect existing business with Loss of business to competitors resulting from failure to competitive and considered pricing policies.
adequately differentiate ourselves in these markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position.
Each market sector prepares and regularly updates a strategic plan to review potential new opportunities.
P16 Revenue generation in One of our key strategic aims is for rapid growth in Each market sector prepares a strategic plan to review emerging markets emerging markets.
Resource levels in sales, marketing and R&D are being increased in the fastest Failure to deliver on this objective may have an adverse growing regions.
We are committed to moving effect on our growth.
manufacturing closer to our target customers in those regions by constant, targeted investment.
P16 Product liability claims We sell into a number of highly regulated markets.
Quality management procedures are in place for each site and all manufacturing sites hold ISO9001 standards.
Non-compliance with quality regulations could expose the Group to product liability claims and reputational Major sites have also been audited against GMP Good damage.
Chemical regulatory As a global chemical producer, we operate in a highly We have a highly knowledgeable global regulatory team compliance regulated environment.
who work to a single set of policies and procedures, and ensure that forthcoming changes to both regional and Violation or incomplete knowledge of these regulations application regulations are well understood and applied.
could limit the markets into which we can sell, or subject the Group to fines or penalties.
Bribery act breach by us or our This risk has moved into our key risks since 2012 as a Policies and procedures have been rolled out globally agents or distributors result of our business strategy to continue to move into which are monitored and their effectiveness covered in emerging and therefore potentially higher risk regions audit reviews.
Global training has been given.
Key: Business Model: Risk increase Risk decrease No change This icon highlights which area of the busines model each risk affects.
Please refer to pages 14 and 15 for more information.
26 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Key Risk How it Could Impact Our Business How We Respond Major site safety incident Significant operational problems could have an adverse We operate strict internal safety and maintenance effect on Crodas financial position.
programmes which are audited by our Group SHEQ Internal Audit team and are considered by the Group We rely on the continued operation of our SHEQ Steering Committee Executive level.
We also have business continuity plans in place.
P16 Major environmental incident Violations of safety, health and environmental regulations We maintain compliance with national and international could limit operations and expose the Group to liability, safety standards and strict environmental policies and cost and reputational impact.
These are audited by both our Group SHEQ Internal Audit team and external organisations.
P16 Global raw material shortage Interruption in the supply of key raw materials would Wherever possible we multisource our key raw significantly impact operations and our financial position.
materials and or purchase them under medium to long-term contracts.
This could arise from implementation of new, more rigorous legislation or from market shortage.
We manage our raw material stock levels taking these considerations into account.
P16 Employee recruitment, We rely on knowledgeable and specialised employees Our global talent review process continues to identify retention and motivation whose vision and experience is critical to our success.
employees in key roles for succession planning, and The lack of an appropriately skilled workforce or succession planning is considered by the Board annually.
comprehensive succession plans would adversely impact To reward and motivate staff, we also have in place: our ability to perform.
people development programmes: P16 remuneration policies.
Security of business We face increased threat of loss of electronically stored We have a highly experienced Global IT Security Manager.
information and assets business information as we continue to expand our use We have policies, procedures and systems in place to of mobile technology and move into emerging markets.
restrict access which we monitor and report on regularly and which are subject to internal audit annually.
IT application or system Croda relies heavily on IT systems to operate efficiently Our Global IT Group is highly experienced in network, infrastructure failure and to communicate globally.
Failure of these systems for a prolonged period of time Key systems run on high availability mirrored hardware would have an impact on operations and ultimately our and there are documented, tested recovery plans for financial position.
Ineffective management of We have legal commitments relating to the provision of The Groups pension schemes are overseen by the pension fund assets pensions and the operation of our pension schemes.
Trustees of the funds who take professional actuarial and investment advice, as necessary.
In volatile market conditions, increased future funding requirements may have an adverse effect on our Where appropriate, we appoint professional trustees to financial position.
The risk management programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
