CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk factors The following section sets out the risks that we have identified as a Various factors could result in us not obtaining an early mover result of the review process undertaken by our executive manageadvantage and missing windows of opportunity for introducing new ment and Board, which is explained in more detail on pages 63 and products and technologies.
Executing on product and technology 64 of our Corporate Governance report.
It reflects the risks that we innovation is highly complex.
In addition, product design and believe could have a material adverse effect on, among other things, development can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
the execution of our strategy, our market share, competitive position, During this time, we may not allocate sufficient resources to business performance, results of operations or financial condition.
These factors can mean that during the course of development, we may encounter unforeseen technical challenges or The management of risk and the ways in which we seek to mitigate be unable to fulfill the objectives as expected, which may result in the impact of such risks forms part of our day to day operations delays and impact our delivery schedules.
In the Strategic Report, on pages 35 to 37, we explain matters which formed part of the reviews undertaken by Moreover, we may be required to meet industry defined standards, management and the Board during 2013. or make changes to reflect the requirements of our customers.
We may also fail to understand market requirements during the Risks associated with ownership of our ordinary shares and planning phase, which may require us to make changes during the American Depositary Shares ADSs can be found on pages 166 development phase.
and 167 of the Directors report Corporate and Share Information.
Each of these issues could delay the development of products or We may fail to understand our customers needs, anticipate technologies, which could impact their launch and delivery, technology trends, or create products for which there is no market.
thereby causing us to miss market opportunities.
Such delays We may not understand or accurately anticipate what future could also lead to existing or potential new customers seeking products, features or technologies our customers want.
While we alternative solutions and placing their business with competitors, invest significantly in research and development to identify potential which could have a material adverse effect on our market share new ideas and technologies, we may invest in the wrong areas, and results of operations.
develop products which fail to meet our customers needs, or fail to pursue product development opportunities that our competitors We may fail to effectively launch new products to the market, or undertake and bring to market.
fail to successfully engage with the right customers due to misunderstanding customers, markets or technology trends.
The risk is also compounded because of the lengthy product Our success firstly depends on the adoption by our customers of design and development cycle of our products and technologies, the technologies we offer, as well as the development and which can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
subsequent growth of the markets to which our products are Therefore, ideas for new products, features or technology that we targeted.
Launching our products successfully involves not only consider to be in line with our customers expectations may, due to offering products and technologies that meet our customers the timeline for design and development, become obsolete and be requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, but also replaced by more compelling products, features and technologies.
promoting and marketing such products effectively so that our customers have good visibility of the products and technologies In addition, we may not have access to the appropriate technology weoffer.
to translate the idea under development into products that our customers and the market require, or those that we have may be Effective engagement with our customers is important.
We may replaced by superior technologies developed by competitors.
launch products and technologies on a timely basis, but such launch may not be successful if we are not able to demonstrate to If we fail to correctly anticipate technology trends, we may create our customers the capabilities or differentiated features of our products or technologies for which there is no market.
If we fail to products at the time we introduce them to market.
Or we may not identify the needs of our either our customers or the market, on a provide the necessary support to ensure our customers are able to timely basis or at all, or we fail to develop the right products or integrate their products with our own, because we do not allocate technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors if they sufficient or the right sales, marketing or technical resources.
In are able to offer customers the products and features which addition, our customers may change their requirements, decide that customers want.
If our products do not have the features or the technologies or products we have been developing are no capabilities which our customers want, we may not achieve the longer suitable or may determine that the products we supply will expected demand for those products or be able to achieve the not fulfill their particular requirements.
Our technologies may, as a desired selling price and therefore generate lower margins and result, decline in importance or be replaced entirely as the prevailing returns on our investment.
Further, if we need to make changes to technology, particularly if customers consider that superior our products, to meet customer requirements, we may incur technologies are being offered by competitors.
additional research and development costs and delay the delivery of the re-designed products.
Any of the foregoing could materially Furthermore, our success depends upon the success of our adversely affect our business and results of operations.
customers products in the marketplace.
Even if customers do adopt our solutions, in the event that their own products are We may fail to develop new products on a timely basis or implement unsuccessful, or expected adoption of new ideas fails to occur, on our product development roadmaps effectively.
a timely basis or at all, our business may also be materially Meeting our strategic objectives and growing our business is adversely affected.
Moreover, our customers may not have or be dependent on our ability on a timely basis to convert the ideas in able to maintain market leading positions in their product which we invest our research and development resources into segments, may suffer delays in the introduction of the endinnovative and differentiated semiconductor and platform solutions product in the market, may not have the required marketing and for existing and new markets.
In our industry, being early to distribution capabilities, or may fail to anticipate demand for their market is increasingly significant for sustaining a leadership product.
Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on position and being able to set high selling prices, which in turn the success of the end-product and, therefore, on our products impacts ourprofitability.
indb 45 11 03 2014 21:17 Risk factors continued Our Information Technology IT and automated systems may not Intellectual Property Rights may provide insufficient protection.
develop in line with the requirements of our business, could suffer Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being an interruption or chronic failure or be subject to hacking by third able to compete successfully.
We rely on a combination of patent, parties disrupting the conduct of our business and or resulting in trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information.
other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect We rely on IT and automated systems to support our operations our proprietary rights.
Our IT systems are important in supporting the research, development and introduction of new products, and are also These measures and the scope of rights may not be sufficient to important for planning as well as for day to day management of protect our technology from third-party infringement, invalidation, our strategy and business activities, such as scheduling deliveries, challenge, circumvention or to protect it from the claims of others.
Our systems, also store Ifour intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our commercially sensitive and highly confidential information which technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to includes the intellectual property and proprietary information owned ours.
Also, the laws of some countries, such as China, in which we by us, our suppliers and our customers, as well as personally operate and or from which we derive significant amounts of identifiable data of our employees and individuals with whom we revenue, may not protect intellectual property to the same extent as, conduct our business.
for example, the laws of the United States and Western Europe, and our products may be at risk of misappropriation by third parties.
As we grow and evolve our business, we will need to ensure that our IT infrastructure is able to handle the larger and potentially Our patent applications may not provide sufficient protection for all broader scope of our business and that we implement and maintain competitive aspects of our technology or may not result in issued suitable data security procedures to protect and safeguard the data patents.
Issued patents may also not provide us competitive and information we use.
This could require the expenditure of advantages.
Competitors may also independently develop significant funds and management resources, which could technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our adversely impact our business and results of operations.
If our IT technology and may obtain patents that restrict our business.
If systems fail to evolve along with the needs of our business, due to competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete our lack of investment or failure to predict future business needs, effectively would be affected.
Moreover, while we hold, or have applied our ability to develop new products, maintain adequate operating for, patents relating to the technology used in our products, some of systems to support our day-to-day activities or grow our business the products are based in part on standards, for which we do not could also be adversely affected.
hold patents or other intellectual property rights.
Even where we have an issued patent, we may choose not to pursue all instances of Our IT systems could also suffer an interruption or a chronic failure, patent infringement.
which may occur, for example because of power shortages, natural or man-made disasters, or failure of a service supplier.
This could Our failure or inability to obtain sufficient intellectual property rights affect our day-to-day business activities including our development protection could increase our expenses and harm our competitive work, for example by delaying a project, causing errors to occur in position and result in increased litigation.
the software we develop for our products, or preventing us from launching new products on time.
When expanding or evolving the technologies in which we choose to invest or the regions where we conduct our business, we may not Despite our data security measures, third parties may attempt to properly understand the regulatory environment applying to those obtain, use, copy, disclose, distribute, offer for sale or make our technologies or regions.
products, services or technology without authorization, including In order to remain a leader in our chosen markets, CSR must through hacking our systems to misappropriate our proprietary innovate and develop new ideas, technologies and products which information and technology or interrupt our business.
Because the are attractive to customers and end users.
When working on these techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or ideas we may identify applications for our technologies or products sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not in end markets with which we or our customers have limited recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to experience.
These applications may be in markets which are anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques.
In addition, our subject to extensive regulation, for example in areas concerned with information technology and infrastructure may be breached due to public health or safety where products may have to satisfy specific employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions standards, undergo testing or registration.
Interruption of our IT systems or loss of data could also disrupt or We conduct our business in multiple territories, each of which has cause delays in decision-making, recording and satisfying customer their own laws and regulations that apply to us and which are orders, or result in errors in ordering products from our suppliers.
subject to change from time to time.
These include for example, business registration, periodic reporting, filing of returns, laws and An inappropriate exposure, disclosure, loss or misappropriation of regulations concerning our corporate activities or with the conduct confidential information, including IP, could result in us breaching the of our business, including for example securing business with intellectual rights of third parties or undertakings we have given to customers and suppliers, employment, or health and safety.
Whilst safeguard third-party information, and could result in legal claims or we seek to ensure that we comply with the laws and regulations proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal which apply to us, there may be circumstances or occasions where information, regulatory penalties, disruption of our operations, a loss we are not in compliance.
This may result in actions being brought of confidence in our products and damage our relationships with against us, we may incur fines penalties or disruption to our third parties and wider business reputation, which could have a business as a result of our non-compliance which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
material impact on our financial condition, results and reputation.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our We may not possess a detailed understanding of these regulations business, reputation and results of operations.
which may mean that our products do not comply with some or all of the regulations.
This may mean that we have to cancel a project altogether, or undertake additional work in order to meet the required regulations.
In such circumstances, we may incur significant extra costs or have to write off research and development which may impact our financial condition and results.
46 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 46 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We may incur fines or penalties, which may be imposed by obtain licenses to disputed rights, which could require the regulators or arise from a claim brought by a customer because we payment of substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments have not fulfilled the requirements of contracts we have with them and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and as a result, our business reputation may also suffer.
and potentially be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors who are able to obtain such licenses: We are regularly, and may continue to be, subject to lawsuits, cease marketing the challenged products: or including lawsuits alleging claims that we infringe third party pay for alternatives for a customer if an injunction is issued intellectual property rights IPR, and may also be subject to against the customer, which alternatives may or may not indemnification claims each of which may be costly, may be time be available, and pay customers losses resulting from consuming to contest and may result in loss of IPR.
From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, communications from Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our customers, competitors and others threatening litigation alleging results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
that we have breached rights or obligations belonging or owed to them concerning patent and other IPR.
Additionally, we have in the Furthermore, certain of our products are designed for use in past received, and may in the future receive, notices that challenge devices used by significant numbers of consumers, such as, for the validity of our patents.
These claims may involve technology and example, automobiles, including in-dash navigation units, personal patents that apply to a wide range of our products and know how.
navigation units, mobile telephones, headsets, sound systems and Furthermore, in some circumstances we agree to indemnify some gaming devices.
Our server software is placed on servers providing customers for costs and damages arising from claims of wireless network services to end-users.
Because of the widespread infringement of IPR brought against those customers, and we have consumer uses of devices incorporating our products, we could be received, and expect to continue to receive, indemnification claims subject to considerable exposure should an infringement claim from customers that are involved in intellectual property litigation against us or our customers occur, which, if successful, could have implicating, directly or indirectly, our products.
These claims have in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
the past been, and may in the future be, material, and as we grow and expand our business, there is an increased likelihood of IPR Regardless of the outcome, litigation brought against or involving claims against us or our customers.
us, may require the expenditure of significant funds and resources, including significant attorneys fees, and time to litigate, defend or Companies in the semiconductor industry can be expected to settle such claims.
It can also divert the attention of our aggressively protect and pursue their IPR.
In addition, it is common management or other key employees.
Litigation can take months or in our industry to find third parties focused solely on bringing IPR years to resolve, even if ultimately settled.
While a claim is pending claims.
IPR litigation typically involves allegations of infringement against us, our customers may be reluctant to include our products and seeks unspecified damages, a permanent injunction against as part of their future product design, including if they believe that further infringement, a finding of willful infringement, and attorneys our products might ultimately be subject to an injunction or other fees and costs.
IPR claims may also involve the filing of complaints legal remedy preventing their sale, import or use.
To the extent we with US courts or administrative bodies, such as the US dispute a customers right to indemnification, such dispute may International Trade Commission ITC, urging it to investigate the harm our goodwill and reputation with the customer and may harm import and sale of allegedly infringing products.
In these cases, the possibility of future business from that customer.
In some plaintiffs typically seek an exclusion order against future import of instances, a customer may seek discounts or refuse to pay the infringing integrated circuits, chipsets and products, including a outstanding invoices in light of pending demands for cease and desist order in relation to marketing, advertising, indemnification.
Even if we ultimately are successful, negative demonstrating, warehousing for distribution, offering for sale, selling, publicity could harm our reputation and have a material adverse distributing, licensing or using the infringing products in the US or effect on our business, in addition to the expense, time, delay and transferring them outside the US.
burden on management of the litigation itself, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of We may not prevail in any particular litigation and we may, among operations and financial condition.
other things, be required, whether as a result of litigation against us or because of indemnification obligations, to: Design errors could go undetected during the development or validation phases of our products or technologies, which could result pay damages, royalties, lost profits, exemplary damages, the in errors or inadequate performance, which may lead to product third-partys attorneys fees and costs, court costs, licensing recall or customer dissatisfaction.
and or settlement costs, which may be material, including The products that we supply to our customers are required to payment of attorneys fees for both our attorneys and our operate in accordance with very precise specifications.
In addition, customers attorney in instances where we have indemnified as we innovate in the development of new products and our customers: technologies, there is a risk that we lack the level of understanding cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing and or and technical capabilities, particularly with the growing complexity sale of products that use the intellectual property in question in of software related features in our products and solutions.
We may light of a court-imposed order or injunction or in light of an not be able to detect errors or defects during the research and administrative order, including an ITC order : development of the hardware and software that are used in our cease the importation of products into the United States or products or in their manufacture, or we may fail to identify bugs or other countries in light of a court-imposed order or injunction or susceptibility to compatibility issues before the products are in light of an administrative order including an ITC order : supplied to customers or installed in the customers own finished expend significant resources to modify or redesign our products.
This may occur due to inadequate design of the product products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that or manufacturing testing schemes, or insufficient or inadequate we do not infringe others IPR, or to develop or acquire nonsuitably trained resources capable of identifying potential problems.
infringing technology, which may not be successful or solve the underlying legal claim: www.
indb 47 11 03 2014 21:17 Risk factors continued Errors, defects, bugs or viruses could result in our customers limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and devices being faulty, which would result in returns from customers.
control and production costs: If failures of faulty devices are attributable to our products, we may enforcement by regulatory bodies for alleged or actual failure to face claims for losses or damages, incur costs for rectifying comply with laws or regulations in the operation of the suppliers the defects or replacing the product, and experience order business: cancellations, any of which would adversely affect our results.
enforcement by regulatory bodies for alleged or actual failure to In addition, if any of our products failed to comply with customer comply with laws or regulations including those for the specifications including in respect of environmental matters, protection of the environment or that regulate working customers could have a right to reject or return products to us.
conditions : and The risk of returns from customers could increase in the event we other developments that cause suppliers to modify their find new markets for our technology which offer significant returns, operations in a manner that has the effect of adversely for example health-related applications for developing technologies, impacting their ability to meet our needs.
We have experienced some of the foregoing in the past.
By way of We have agreements with customers that provide warranty example, one of our key suppliers has been ordered to suspend protection or indemnities.
Some of these agreements have no work at the wafer-level process in one plant due to an alleged limitations on liability and for those that do, the limitations may not environmental compliance issue at the plant.
It is uncertain when be enforceable.
Product defects could have longer term harmful the plant will be fully operational.
effects on our reputation or our relationships with our customers or the market acceptance or sales of our products.
Any of the risks listed above could require us to find alternative suppliers, which we may be unable to do on a timely and cost We rely on a limited number of third party foundries and subconefficient basis.
Failure to find alternative suppliers on a timely and tractors in some cases sole suppliers to supply materials, cost efficient basis, in turn, could result in delays in the manufacture manufacture, package and test integrated circuit products which and shipment of products and increased costs.
We could as a may be unable to meet the requirements of our business.
result suffer strained relations with one or more of our customers We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely and impaired margins.
These consequences could undermine on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to supply materials, perceptions of our reliability, result in lost business and ultimately manufacture, package and test our products on a timely basis could adversely affect our results of operations.
In 2013, TSMC was responsible for the manufacture of a significant proportion of our integrated In addition, we are subject to price volatility in the marketplace of circuits or silicon chips and ASE provided a significant proportion the raw materials required to manufacture our products, for example of the testing and packaging support for our products.
For the in the metals such as gold and copper which are used in the manufacture of our products, critical components are purchased integrated circuits which are contained on our chips.
This volatility from a small number of suppliers, and for certain raw materials a makes it difficult for us to predict our cost of sales and may cause single supplier, in supporting the manufacture of our products.
our results of operations to fluctuate significantly.
If the cost of raw materials increases, our profit margins may decrease substantially.
We have no long-term supply contracts and, therefore, our suppliers are generally not contractually obligated to perform The average selling prices of our products have historically declined services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any over their life and this is likely to continue.
specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular In the highly competitive markets in which we operate, the pricing purchase order.
of products can have a material bearing on a customers decision to award contracts, particularly though not exclusively for products Our reliance on suppliers exposes us to a variety or risks associated where technical or feature differentiation is limited or which have with their operations, including: been superseded by subsequent generations of new products.
changes to the terms on which they are able or willing to supply In addition, competitors may adopt much lower prices as part of a products and services to us, including adverse changes to strategy to disrupt the position of incumbents particularly in an pricing, inadequate capacity made available to us for the attempt to undermine market leaders who possess significant manufacture or testing of our products or to support the market share, with the intention of attracting the business of our delivery of finished products, for example by providing that customers.
Such measures may mean that our existing customers capacity to other customers in preference to us: or potential new customers decide to place their business with third natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis such as parties, rather than CSR.
We recognise this risk, particularly in the events in Japan and floods in Thailand which occurred markets where CSR enjoys high market share, such as Voice & during 2011, pandemics or geopolitical instability such as the Music.
Competitors taking such steps may include those who are riots in China in September 2012, resulting in our suppliers larger than CSR or whose business is predominantly conducted in being unable to source the raw materials they need in order to regions which have a lower cost base for example in Asia and who satisfy particular orders, interruptions in manufacturing or are better placed to withstand the effects of lower prices and testing at the supplier sites, plant shut-downs, closures or therefore lower operating margins.
cessation of business altogether: changes in practices affecting product qualification or product We have in the past reduced, and we expect in the future to reduce quality: the average selling prices of our products in response to competitive changes in senior management personnel with whom we deal pricing pressures, or new product introductions by our competitors.
most closely: However, we may not respond on a timely basis to actions taken by financial difficulties that may result in our suppliers being unable our competitors, resulting in customers placing their business with to obtain raw materials or services to satisfy particular orders, to our competitors.
Even in instances where we do reduce our prices, maintain their operation at the level necessary to meet our needs we may fail to effectively offset the impact of reduced prices by or to remain in business altogether: increasing our sales volumes, reducing costs or successfully quality problems at manufacturing sites, resulting in lower introducing new products at higher prices.
Any of the foregoing yields, product failures and product returns: could adversely affect our financial performance and results.
48 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 48 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We may fail to operate an effective sales and distribution We do not have long-term contracts with our customers.
infrastructure to be successful in new and developing markets.
In keeping with wider industry practice, we do not generally enter We have traditionally operated in markets where a significant into long-term purchase contracts with our customers, and we proportion of the potential business available to us has been with cannot predict whether our current customers will continue to place readily identifiable customers many of whom are large global orders or whether existing orders or contracts will be cancelled.
The conduct of business with these customers has been supported through well established direct and indirect sales Customers generally purchase our products subject to short-term and third party distribution channels.
purchase orders, which, in some cases, the customer may revise or cancel altogether for example, due to slowing demand, economic In the recent past this has changed, accelerated by the transition we conditions, change in end consumer purchasing preference or other have completed away from the mobile handset business and toward events beyond the control of the customer, including natural disasters, the development of new technologies and products for which the such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011.
If our markets are less mature and where the opportunities for the customers stop placing orders for our products or cancel existing application of these products and technologies is more disparate, orders or contracts, our revenue would be adversely affected.
such as, the Internet of Things and the adoption of technologies such as Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location.
In addition, markets Depressed economic conditions may continue to adversely affect in regions such as China and India, have seen a greater number of demand for our products and hence our financial performance.
companies being established with diverse demands and product We are a global company, with operations and business conducted requirements.
We therefore anticipate a need to adapt our approach in many parts of the world.
Depressed economic conditions have to engaging with a greater number of customers, with differing persisted to varying degrees through 2013 in different parts of the requirements, as well as emerging customers, new to the markets world and these macro-economic variations, and the general which are expected to utilise these technologies.
uncertainty as to the potential for economic recovery, are expected to continue in 2014.
We may be unable to establish the right sales team for the given markets, or to adapt our systems or establish business relationships Our products predominantly are, and will continue to be, supplied with third party distributors for the wider and more diverse customer for incorporation into devices intended for the consumer market.
This may mean we are not able to promote If depressed economic conditions persist or worsen and sales of our products to the right customers or support the right customers such consumer devices decline, demand for our customers effectively.
We may use our resources to work with customers who products, and therefore for our own products, are also likely to ultimately are not successful in developing or launching their own decline.
Any difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers products.
As a result, potential markets and customer contracts in accessing sources of liquidity could also seriously disrupt their may be lost, or opportunities missed, which would affect our businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in future financial standing, operations and results.
orders of our products or difficulty on their part to meet their payment obligations to us or the inability of suppliers to meet their We may not hire, retain or develop people with the essential skills obligations to us in supplying products or continuing to support our needed to support our business objectives.
We depend on the specialist skills and capabilities of our employees to develop new technologies and products to compete effectively Any of the outcomes above may materially and adversely affect and secure new business.
In some cases these skills are rare and ourbusiness.
the demand from businesses in acquiring the people with such skills is intensely competitive.
Key personnel may leave without us We could be adversely affected as a result of financial difficulties of, being able to replace them with new suitably qualified and or failure by, our distributors.
We supply a significant proportion of our products to end customers through third party distributors.
Our largest distributor accounted for Our people have experienced significant changes, including the approximately 21% of our revenue in 2013, compared to 16% of acquisition of Zoran in 2011 and the disposal of our handset our revenue in 2012 and 18% of our revenue in 2011.
The connectivity and handset location development operations in 2012, distributors are independent third parties who support our own as a result of which more than 300 employees were transferred out direct marketing and sales.
Continuing economic uncertainty of the Group.
More recently, we announced in December 2013 the presents significant challenges for our distributors, including: decision to cease investment in our Camera-On-AChip COACH imaging technology, as a result of which some people will leave the uncertain demand patterns, which mean distributors risk Group, whilst others are expected to be re-deployed from work on ordering more products than they require to satisfy our end imaging technology to our Voice & Music and Bluetooth Smart customers, resulting in them holding excessive inventory: activities.
Such changes can be unsettling, and disruptive and restrictions on credit terms, which mean distributors may have could affect retention of key people.
difficulty in selling products because end customers do not have the cash flow to enable them to buy from the distributors: and Whilst CSR continues to invest in securing additional personnel and fluctuating order patterns, which means end customers may capabilities including technical capabilities, we may be unable to amend existing orders or stop buying products because of identify, acquire and retain skilled resources, which in turn could insufficient demand, each of which could affect our distributors affect CSRs ability to execute our strategy.
The failure to recruit ability to continue in business.
people or to provide adequate training or development may result in our employees not having the required knowledge and skills for us Our business would be disrupted if end customers were unable to to pursue our strategy.
This could adversely affect our business.
obtain our products from the distributors on a timely basis.
In the event a distributors fails, we may be unable to collect amounts owed to us, for products that we have supplied or recover those products in default of non-payment.
indb 49 11 03 2014 21:17 Risk factors continued We are exposed to the political, economic and regulatory conditions We may fail to compete successfully in a very competitive market.
in the countries in which we and our customers operate, which may The markets for our products are highly competitive and rapidly adversely affect our operating results.
Competition may in the future intensify due to the We derive nearly all our revenue from sales outside the UK.
For emergence of new companies as competitors in our markets or example, our sales in China, where we maintain three offices and new markets where we chose to operate, or due to consolidation of approximately 300 employees, accounted for, 44%, 55% and 59% market participants.
of our revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.
Further, one of the factories that manufactures our products has operations We compete in different markets to varying degrees on price, located in China.
As a result, we are subject to economic climate, technical performance, product features, product system political environment, government policies and other risks in each of compatibility, product design and technology, timely introduction of the countries in which we and our customers operate, including in new products, product availability, and sales and technical support.
China, where the political, legal and economic climate, both We are seeing increased competition throughout the markets in nationally and regionally, is extremely volatile and unpredictable.
The increased competition could result in more Examples of economic and political developments that could pronounced price reductions, reduced margins and or loss of adversely affect us include government control over capital market share.
investments, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations.
Within the markets in which we operate, we face competition from public and private companies, as well as the in-house design We may face difficulties in complying with business practices or effortsof their customers.
A number of our competitors have managing cultural differences, difficulties in working with local significantly greater financial, technical, research and development, infrastructure and transportation networks, as well as difficulties in manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than us.
complying with local regulatory requirements in the design of Some of our competitors bundle their connectivity and location products in each of the countries in which we and our customers products with baseband processors, and we may lose those operate.
In particular, we are exposed to the legal and regulatory customers that prefer to use platform suppliers of the full suite of environment in China, which is subject to inherent uncertainties.
connectivity and baseband modem solutions.
If we fail to compete For example, protection of intellectual property rights and successfully, our results of operations and prospects would be confidentiality in China may not be as effective as in the US or adversely affected.
other countries or regions with more developed legal systems.
We may also incur costs in complying with new laws and regulations We may fail to manage the transition to smaller geometry process for example, labour laws and regulations have been recently technologies.
To remain competitive and sustain our prospects for growth, we need to provide products and solutions which incorporate Moreover, we and our customers are subject to various import and increasingly complex features, whilst at the same time meeting export laws and regulations.
Government export regulations apply increasingly exacting requirements on size, power and cost.
to the encryption or other features contained in some of our This requires us to progressively transition our semiconductor products.
As a result, we and our customers may face restrictions and system on chip products to increasingly smaller line width on imports and exports or incur costs or operational limitations in geometries meaning chips of a smaller size whilst incorporating obtaining and complying with the required permits.
For example, faster processing time using less power which helps support the Chinese government imposes controls on technology import.
customer demands for smaller, more powerful and cost effective Ifwe fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with solutions.
This transition requires modifications to design and these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected manufacturing processes, and achieving these modifications could products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain result in delays in product deliveries, increased expenses or customers, or we may incur penalties or fines.
Our product or manufacturing standards could also be impacted by Failure to transition to smaller geometries, on a timely basis or at new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other social all, particularly in the development of system on chip solutions, initiatives.
For example, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual could harm our competitive position.
disclosure and reporting requirements for companies that use conflict minerals tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold mined from the We may be unable to obtain or fail to procure sufficient insurance to Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their protect our business.
Because our products contain one or a combination of We are engaged in business activities which are technically tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold to improve their functionality, we complex, and involve us in developing new and innovative solutions recognise that we need to report on our supply chain and the that are adopted by our customers.
Because of the complex nature extent to which such conflict minerals may be used in our products of our business, we have in the past and expect to continue to face although we are not a direct buyer of the conflict minerals from difficulties in obtaining insurance for example where we might face source.
These reporting requirements, which require us to file claims for breach of third party intellectual property or claims Form SD in May 2014, involve material costs, including those associated with errors or defects in our products.
Moreover, our related to the due diligence process of determining the source of insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject, to products, processes or sources of supply as a result of such including cyber-security risks.
Even where we have obtained verification activities.
Moreover, as the new requirements are insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover one or more large implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of claims, or such cover may not be available on acceptable terms.
minerals used in our manufacturing processes, as a result of which The insurer may also deny coverage as to any future claim.
The we may not be able to obtain products at competitive prices.
successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceeds Some of our customers may also elect to disqualify us as a supplier available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our if we are unable to verify that all of our products are conflict-free insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a If we or our customers fail, or are unable, to manage these risks in material adverse effect on our results of operations.
the various markets in which we operate, our business may be materially adversely affected.
50 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 50 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We may fail to manage inventory levels, in particular for our Legacy Products Group and those affected by end of life manufacturing cycles.
The lead time to manufacture and test our products for delivery from our suppliers ready for shipment to our customers can take 12weeks and in some cases even longer.
To ensure we have sufficient product to meet our customers future demand, we have to make assumptions about their order levels, relying on customer projections as well as our own judgement and experience.
Due to general economic conditions and the volatile nature of the consumer electronics markets, actual demand can differ significantly from our assumptions.
Such fluctuations in demand tend to be more extreme during the initial launch of new products and also towards the end of a products economic life, when demand can vary substantially from expectations.
Such fluctuations can result in us ordering too little product, meaning we cannot meet our customers requirements, or too much, meaning we are holding excess inventory which we might not be able to sell to our customers in the future.
Where we have discontinued investment in new products, for example, the DTV business which was closed in 2011, handset connectivity, an area where we ceased new developments following the sale of that business to Samsung in 2012 and the COACH platform, the development of which we are discontinuing, we envisage declining demand for products that are nearing the end of their life, as customers switch to alternative and newer products.
As a result, we believe there is increased risk of holding too much inventory for such products which may result in us either having to charge lower prices in order to sell the product, being unable to sell the products, or write off the inventory, resulting in the Company incurring material costs.
From time to time, circumstances may arise which require us to order greater quantities of products in order to meet expected demand over the longer term, albeit this is greater than the levels forecasted by customer order schedules.
For example, during 2012, we were informed of the decision by a supplier to cease manufacture of a product.
This required us to place orders at higher volumes in the short term, in order to allow us to support customer demand in the period after manufacturing by our suppliers ceases.
We may find that we have ordered too much of these products and are left holding inventory which is no longer required, which may result in us either having to charge lower prices in order to sell the product or being unable to sell the products, write off the inventory, resulting in the Company incurring further material costs.
