CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Governance The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group, recognising that the Group, in the pursuit of its objectives, will accept certain risks whilst also, where possible, mitigating against these risks with the intention to minimise their potential impact.
The systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Companys senior management, in conjunction with external advisers, are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with senior management of the Group and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and discussed by the full Board.
At the management level, there is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate strategic, operational, financial, compliance and political risks faced by the Group that management believes have the potential to adversely affect the achievement of the Groups corporate and strategic objectives.
Management conducts regular meetings and engages with external consultants where, in its opinion, it is appropriate.
The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the business and any observations or proposals arising from events since the last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks is developed and reviewed by management each quarter to ensure that possible mitigation measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
Responsibility is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions which are also reviewed and updated by management.
As part of its annual review, during the autumn of 2013, the Group engaged outside consultants, KPMG LLP, to support management in the identification and prioritisation of risks to the Group.
Interviews were conducted with personnel across a range of business functions and locations to identify the potential risks which might impact the Group.
The results from this assessment were considered by management.
Findings from the annual review are reported to the Board together with recommended actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation of appropriate mitigation.
On page 64 in the Corporate Governance Report, we report further on the process for identifying and managing risk.
For each material risk, potential mitigation measures are identified for which a member of management is assigned lead responsibility to track progress in the changing profile of the risk and the extent to which potential mitigation measures are being implemented.
Management also evaluates whether there is any significant changes to the risks which have the potential to affect the business conducted by the Group.
The Board is informed of such material changes to risks.
Responsibilities framework for identification and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management process explained above.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of this process through reports it receives from management and, where necessary, external consultants engaged to support the identification and progress in implementing mitigation measures.
Areas considered by the Audit Committee are mentioned in its report on pages 59 to 64.
Day to day oversight of risk is delegated, initially through the members of the management team who are responsible for the implementation and management of risk mitigation activities.
It is recognised that the Group operates in a dynamic environment and over time the risks which have the potential to most significantly affect the Group are likely to change.
Accordingly, during the course of any period, those risks which receive the most attention will reflect these dynamics.
Board consideration of principal risks and uncertainties The following paragraphs describe the areas of risk and uncertainties faced by the Group on which the Board and the Audit Committee have focused during 2013 and which are expected to be included as areas of focus in 2014.
These are therefore regarded as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
The Group faces a range of risks which are described in the section headed Risk Factors on pages 45 to 51.
Risk: failing to provide technological innovation which delivers new products The success of the Group is dependent upon technological innovation the creation and implementation of new ideas that represent tangible improvements upon prevailing capabilities of products already available in the markets in which we operate.
Sustaining an environment that promotes creative thinking as well as capturing and evaluating new ideas is an important part of technological innovation.
The Group has established various forums within which employees evaluate ideas and consider the potential commercial application, the findings from which are considered by management.
We invest significantly in research and development to identify such new ideas and technologies which might be attractive to our customers and which also enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
This includes, for example, the development of new technologies for nascent markets, such as Indoor Location and the rapidly emerging market for Bluetooth Smart, as well as the development of new products that incorporate enhanced features or improved performance for more established markets in which the Group operates for example, our audio based solutions VibeHub and VibePlayer in our Voice & Music business group for more information see page 11.
The Board takes a disciplined approach to the allocation of capital to our research and development activities.
As part of making informed investment decisions, we evaluate how the financial and human resources available should be assigned to our R&D activities.
The Board receives and considers reports on new ideas which are under evaluation and on how these progress over time.
The Board also considers the priorities for the Group in allocating its resources in support of its strategic objectives as well as assessing the capabilities of the organisation to support these objectives.
indb 35 11 03 2014 21:17 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The process of technological innovation is highly complex and brings many challenges, some of which can be unknown at the outset of a project, that have the potential to arise during the development of new products and which can disrupt the fulfillment of objectives.
In seeking to mitigate against such risks, management keeps under review how ongoing investment compares to the original business case.
This includes up-dates on critical phases during research and development and feedback from engagement with customers on their interest in adopting our technology and solutions.
These are kept under review as part of the execution of the project and are reported to management and the Board.
Risk: failing to achieve target timelines for delivery and successful launch of new products Meeting our strategic objectives and growing our business is dependent on our ability to develop, on a timely basis, innovative and differentiated semiconductor and platform solutions for existing and new markets.
In our industry, being early to market is increasingly significant for sustaining a leadership position and being able to set high selling prices, which in turn impacts our profitability.
The technology industry is characterised by rapid change.
Companies that are successful typically are those who consistently are at the forefront in the timely transition of innovative ideas into finished products and the launch of those products into the market.
Executing on targets for the delivery of new technologies or products to our chosen markets is important if the Group is to secure revenues, maintain the strong working relationships with our customers and create and sustain leading market positions.
Management and the Board monitor the progress of projects against pre-determined milestones, including project timelines and costs incurred.
Programme management resources conduct reviews in order to assess variance from the project plan in fulfilling these objectives and to propose corrective action if necessary.
During 2013, the Board received and discussed reports provided by management on the processes which support execution of product development through to market launch.
The Board also considered onoing measures to improve our processes for developing new products and technologies.
Launching our products successfully involves not only offering products and technologies that meet our customers requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, but also promoting and marketing such products effectively so that our customers have good visibility of the products and technologies we offer.
Management seeks to maintain good working relationships with customers, to explain our products and technologies and better understand their own programmes.
The Board has received regular assessments of the likely markets and key customers expected to adopt our technologies and how the Group has been engaging with customers.
This will remain an area of attention in 2014.
Risk: failing to anticipate the requirements of our customers and compete effectively in a highly competitive market It is important that we understand or accurately anticipate what future products, features or technologies our customers want.
In the highly competitive and fast moving environment of technical innovation in which the Group operates, we face the possibility that our own technologies and solutions are superseded by alternatives offered by our competitors that are adopted by our customers.
understanding the trends in the markets in which the Company operates, the requirements of our customers and the emerging demands of end users is important if we are to remain competitive.
It is recognised that an important part of understanding customer requirements is regular engagement with them.
The Group works closely with its customers to understand their future product plans and to identify the innovative features of existing and new technologies that will be attractive to them.
These findings are considered by management and inform considerations of our own R&D, as well as the introduction of products and technologies that are most likely to reflect the requirements of current and potential customers.
The Board receives regular reports on the Groups customer engagements, for example from our VP of Worldwide Sales and our Chief Technical Officer.
As part of those discussions, the Board has also been kept informed about current and anticipated trends in the adoption of new technologies for example how competing alternative technologies compare to those in which the Group is investing.
Risk: the markets in which we operate may be subject to significant change which could adversely affect our business performance.
CSRs products are adopted by our customers into their own end products that are supplied primarily to consumer based markets.
Changes in demand from consumers for the products in which our technologies feature can affect the success of our business.
The Board receives regular reports on each of the business areas that comprise the Groups reportable segments, to assess performance generally and relative to strategic objectives and annual targets, as well as to understand wider market trends.
Where appropriate, actions that the Board considers appropriate are initiated, with due regard for the long term interests of all stakeholders.
For example, during 2013, as consumers continued to switch from traditional point-and-shoot digital cameras to using smartphones and tablets, there was an acceleration in the decline in revenue and profit in our Cameras business unit.
The Board considered the potential impact of these developments.
In each of the announcements of our half year and third quarter 2013 results, in addition to our reporting on business and financial performance, we disclosed that there was a risk of impairment in the Cameras business area.
On 10 December 2013, we announced our decision to discontinue investment in our COACH platform and an expected impairment charge for our 2013 results.
This is further explained on page 10.
See also notes 13 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements.
36 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 36 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk: our automated information systems may not develop in line with our business requirements, may experience interruption or be subject to malicious attack We rely on our IT systems to support our operations globally.
These hold information and related data management tools which are important for our day to day business.
Reflecting this, the Group has established forums for discussing the IT requirements of the business and for ensuring that the strategic needs and priorities of the Group give due consideration to how our business systems need to evolve in response.
Much of the information maintained by our systems is confidential and commercially sensitive either to us or other stakeholders, for example our customers and employees.
We recognise our obligations to safeguard this information and as well as having our own resources, we engage with third parties, including advisers and our customers in relation to developing IT and related data management systems.
For example, during 2013, a review was undertaken into prevailing procedures concerned with access, use and distribution of data, which was supported by external consultants.
The review included how the Group addressed threats to data security, including malicious attack so-called hacking, which could result for example in loss of data or disruption to our business.
The findings from this review were considered by the Board and Audit Committee and they have been kept appraised of managements responses in addressing those findings.
The Board is aware of heightened interest in such matters, and during 2013, members of the Board participated in the Cyber Security review initiated by the uK Government.
Risk: failing to protect proprietary information Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being able to compete successfully.
We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights.
The Board and management recognise the importance of implementing a considered strategy in respect of intellectual property matters, including protecting the Groups proprietary technology in order that the Group may compete successfully and in the support of its business with customers.
The Board, or within its delegated responsibilities, the Audit Committee, receives periodic reports from management on initiatives and workstreams connected with the development of the Groups portfolio of patents and trademarks which includes a cross-functional team of senior managers under a rolling programme supporting the Groups strategy of extending protection of the Groups intellectual property.
Risk: the need to defend the Group against claims associated with alleged breaches of intellectual property rights We are, and expect to be on an ongoing basis, involved in litigation, including that associated with intellectual property.
It is recognised that intellectual property litigation is commonplace in our industry and poses risks and uncertainties that may materially and adversely affect or disrupt our business, customer relationships, expenses or results of operations.
From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we have received, and may continue to receive, communications from customers, competitors and others threatening litigation in respect of claims that we have breached rights or obligations belonging or owed to them concerning patent and other intellectual property rights IPR.
The Audit Committee receives reports on actual or potential litigation involving the Group and monitors the developments and potential impact of such litigation on the Groups business and financial condition.
Risk: continuity of supply and capacity constraints We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to manufacture, package and test our products on time.
Because of this reliance on third parties, we face the risk that our suppliers are unable or unwilling to satisfy the orders placed by our customers at all or on a timely basis.
During 2013, the Company experienced significant growth in demand in China for our products used in mono voice headsets as a result of stricter enforcement of legislation regarding hands free driving.
This unexpected action meant we required greater than expected supply of our products from suppliers on shortened delivery schedules.
Through the actions taken by management and the support of our supply chain partners, we were able to satisfy the requirements of our customers and benefit from the increased revenues.
In the latter part of 2013, one of our principal supply chain partners, ASE, notified us that one part of their processing operations would be suspended at their plant in Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Through the support of ASE working in conjunction with CSR personnel, we promptly determined that this circumstance had no material impact on our business.
