Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties During 2013 we have continued to monitor and review the following principal risks and uncertainties relating totheGroups business performance.
KPI Performance Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Operational risk Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews, to identify as early aspossible Net effective working Chief Operating Officer Operations Increase.
Field delivery risk acquisition through to production operations.
At each phase the any potential risks to success.
interestproduction review High Field delivery risks in mitigating measures will be different.
However, failure to control risks Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development C apital expenditure 2014 will remain high will lead to project delays, cost over-runs, high production costs, early wells, and determine the appropriate course of action for the drilling as a consequence of Operating cost per barrel field decommissioning and, ultimately, lower than expected reserves.
the installation and In 2013, development continued at our producing assets in Nigeria and commissioning of the new We closely monitor all projects to ensure they go to plan and sowecan Kurdistan, with significant drilling campaigns in Ebok and Barda Rash, Ebok and Okwok facilities.
take action to maintain progress.
and the engineering and fabrication of the new Ebok Central Fault Block We monitor project finances alongside their budget to minimise extension platform.
During 2014, we will closely manage the installation, hook-up and We monitor production operations closely to ensure we minimise commissioning of the new Ebok facilities, to ensure safe operations and unplanned downtime and control operating costs tightly.
to minimise any impact on production.
We compare actual production regularly to forecast production.
Exploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve a high Exploration assets are subject to a rigorous peer review process.
R eserves replacement ratio Technical Director Operations No change.
Exploration failure degree of risk.
Sustained exploration failure will affect the Groups review Medium We evaluate exploration risk for each prospect by looking in detail F&D cost We continue to rigorously growth potential.
at how to fide-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source assess exploration risks In 2013, we achieved world-class exploration success.
The highlight of rock, reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms.
We subsequently rank and to rank prospects the year was the discovery at Ogo, offshore Nigeria, the third largest prospects and approve budgets.
As Afrens activities continue to expand there is a continuing focus We have implemented comprehensive EHSS management systems LTIF Head of EHSS Corporate Increase.
Environmental or on preventing major pollution or loss of life due to failure ofsystems, based on best industry practice, at both corporate and country responsibility High TRIR We will mitigate the safety incidents equipment or human action.
level, with an annual independent audit programme to ensure increased risks posed Number and volume of spills .
by the installation and Afren oversees its contractors closely to ensure they accept and meet commissioning of new our EHSS standards.
facilities by effective planning, monitoring Specific EHSS teams in each area of operation.
Contingency plans in place and tested regularly.
Loss of production interest or exploration licence due to incomplete The operations, finance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance Work plan and budget Chief Operating Officer Operations No change.
Unfulfilled work fulfilment of work or PSC obligations.
review High We maintain close or PSC obligations We maintain good, open working relationships with local governments working relations with in the countries of operation.
relevant ministries and monitor compliance with licenceconditions.
External risk The countries in which Afren operates continue to face political, Through close liaison in each relevant country, we monitor the situation Civil or political unrest Country MDs Operations No change.
Geo-political risk socio-economic and legal uncertainties.
from the perspective of our safety and security.
review High We will continue to monitor 2013 has seen political tensions in all of the areas in which we operate Contingency plans in place and tested regularly.
geo-political risks at the and these continue to be closely monitored to minimise the impact regional and local level.
Through our contacts in governments and industry, as well as onour operations.
though specialist advisors, we continuously monitor and evaluate Disputes between the Iraqi and Kurdistan authorities over licences the potential impacts on our business arising from changes in the and oil exports continue to pose uncertainties for all E&P companies geo-political environment.
operating in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Afren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, Security teams in each area of operation.
S ecurity incidents Head of EHSS Corporate No change.
Security incidents High piracyandcriminal attacks occur.
responsibility Rigorous security management programme.
We will maintain robust security programmes across Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
Oil prices can fluctuate significantly.
We will protect our minimum cash flow requirements in a sustained Realised oil price Group Finance Director Finance review No change.
Oil price volatility downturn in oil prices.
Medium We will continue to Group strategy is to hedge between 25-35% of production through hedge in line with current financial instruments that allow us to protect the risk.
Group strategy in order to protect against significant downturns in oil prices Our operations both on and offshore have the potential for interruption Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs, H ost communities incidents Head of EHSS Corporate No change.
Host community High by our host communities if relations are not wellestablished.
which is applied to all operations.
responsibility CR spend action We have continued our close relationships with our host communities C ommunity affairs teams are in place where required.
and have seen no community action against our operations in 2013.
Afren plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Delivering against our strategy Operational efficiency Portfolio management and financial discipline Reserves growth Working responsibly For more information Production growth see: P22 KPI Performance Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Operational risk Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews, to identify as early aspossible Net effective working Chief Operating Officer Operations Increase.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties continued KPI Performance Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Strategic risk As an international oil and gas operator, bribery and corruption Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery Number of Group General Counsel Business ethics No change.
Bribery and represent an ongoing risk to our business.
and Corruption Policy across all its operations.
We will be updating them whistle-blowing incidents Medium We recognise the perceived corruption in 2014, and will accompany this with a further round of training for the Number of reportable risk to our business from Board, all employees and key contractors.
fraudincidents bribery and corruption and We continued to review our anti-bribery and corruption practices during 2014 will re-issue during2013.
and retrain all personnel on the requirements of We have established an independent whistle-blowing hotline toenable our Code of Business concerns about poor practice to be voiced without fear of reprisal.
Conduct and Anti-Bribery We review and update specific Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and Corruption Policy andprocedures annually and quarterly respectively, to meet the andprocedures.
stringent requirements of the UK Bribery Act as well as the UK Ministry ofJusticeGuidance.
We provide new starters and existing employees with training onanti-bribery and corruption as part of the induction process and asanongoing programme.
We provide quarterly updates to the Audit and Risk Committee  and corruption, including any whistle-blowing reports andtheir subsequent resolution.
We have continued to develop and consolidate our management All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence, to create S taff turnover Chief Executive Human Resources No change.
Management systems, to take into account the changing needs of a growing aneffective integration plan.
Low Inability to recruit We will continue to closely ofgrowth organisation.
Management of growth is a reducing risk.
We design remuneration policies to incentivise, motivate and retain for key positions monitor our KPIs to confirm keyemployees as well as to attract new personnel as required.
that this risk remains low.
Loss of knowledge and skills to the Group, in particular in countries We consider succession planning Group-wide, taking into account S taff turnover Head of HR Human Increase.
thedevelopment of the executive and senior management.
Resources, Medium We have seen an increase employees Directors Intensified competition for human talent in Africa and the MiddleEast.
We design remuneration policies to incentivise, motivate and retain instaff turnover in 2013 and remuneration keyemployees including Directors.
will be actively engaging As the Group has expanded so have the strength and depth ofsenior report with employees in 2014 management.
Loss of key personnel reduces as a risk asAfren continues We set salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, tomitigate this trend.
to grow, and is also mitigated by our remuneration policies.
atcompetitive levels using third-party benchmarks.
Financial risk There is a risk that future changes in tax regimes and other legislation Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and proposed Effective tax rate Group Finance Director Financial review No change.
Taxation and other may impact our profitability.
changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
Medium We will continue to actively legislation changes Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local authorities monitor potential changes in inthe countries of operation.
tax regimes that may impact our business.
Involvement with industry groups in the country of operation todiscuss sector issues.
The availability of financing to maintain the ongoing operations ofthe The Group continued to optimise its capital structure during 2013 and Liquidity Group Finance Director Financial review No change.
successfully extended its debt maturity and lowered its cost ofdebt.
Low management We continue to manage our expenditure and monitor cashflow toensure that future cash requirements are appropriately controlled.
Afren plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Delivering against our strategy Operational efficiency Portfolio management and financial discipline Reserves growth Working responsibly For more information Production growth see: P22 KPI Performance Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Strategic risk As an international oil and gas operator, bribery and corruption Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery Number of Group General Counsel Business ethics No change.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33
