Summary of key risks and mitigation to Audit and Risk Committee and Board Review of compliance by internal audit Monitoring and reporting by line management Mitigating actions Strategic report R R iis sk k m ma an na ag gem emen ent t pr pro oc ce es ss s will be auditing specific controls to ensure S trong risk management processes Strengthening risk they are implemented tosuitable breadth are critical to our future success management to improve anddepth.
and are integral to our way of business performance The third key initiative was to conduct doing business.
In 2013 we completed three major an internal audit on the business risk initiatives to further strengthen Afrens management function within Afren.
First, Afren compared Afrens risk management process established an internal audit function to work with recognised national and international closely with the Audit and Risk Committee, standards and then checked if the system toprovide assurance that we have established was implemented by the documented and implemented business controls in the procedure.
The audit concluded that the key risk areas.
In establishing audit plans, existing procedure compared favourably wewillprioritise work by level of risk, and so with the most prominent risk management the business risk and internal audit function standards UK Institute of Risk Management will work closely, particularly in ensuring and the International Risk Management that effective controls are in place in areas Standard ISO 31000:2009.
several recommendations for consistent implementation of the business risk Continuing from 2012, the second initiative management system.
We are currently was a detailed examination of field delivery addressing these with help and advice risk and exploration risk, the key operational from KPMGs Enterprise Risk Management risks.
A small multi-disciplinary team carried team.
We intend to have completed the out the work, which included internal audit recommendations by mid 2014. and an assessment of the main components of field delivery risk drilling, development We continued to monitor the risks to the projects and production operations.
Within business closely during 2013, with the each area they looked in more detail at Peter Bingham, main focus remaining on the effective specific risk areas such as organisation Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee execution ofexploration and production and competence, planning, contracting operations.
This will carry on into 2014 with and procurement, financial controls and the installation and commissioning of new operational execution.
They did the same facilities in Ebok and Okwok, development for exploration risk.
For each specific risk work at Okoro, consolidation of our they recorded the controls in place following operations in Kurdistan, and the start of industry best practice, and noted any KPIs exploration drilling in East Africa.
In 2014, used for monitoring performance.
The review we will continue to monitor and assess the provided assurance to the Audit and Risk emerging risk landscape including the critical Committee that the business functions are areas of business conduct, anti-bribery adopting appropriate controls for the Groups and corruption.
As a follow up they Process for ongoing risk management Corporate risk register Corporate strategy Covers key business functions Strategy cascaded to business units Risk registers Nigeria Review risks Business unit plans Kurdistan region of Iraq to delivery East Africa Cte dIvoire Strategy cascaded Project and asset to projects assets risk registers Ebok Okoro OML 26 Project and asset plans Barda Rash Afren plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Risk management roles and responsibilities Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management.
This responsibility encapsulates an understanding of the key risks, recognition and oversight of the measures in place to manage risks and acceptance of the residual risks.
Any areas where the Board is uncomfortable with the risk exposure are investigated further, to ensure that either additional controls are implemented to reduce the risk to an acceptable level, or if not possible, that the activities giving rise to the risk are curtailed.
Audit and Risk The Audit and Risk Committee oversees the business risk management system and regularly reviews the corporate risk Committee register, to ensure it reflects the key risk areas of the business and that controls are in place tomitigate risks.
The other important role of the Committee is to ensure we audit key controls as necessary, to provide assurance that they are effective in mitigating risk.
Executive The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring they fully understand the key risks within their remit and that Directors mitigating measures are in place.
The Chief Executive is generally responsible for strategic risks, with the Chief Operating Officer overseeing the majority of the field delivery and exploration risks and those associated with environment, safety, community and security.
The Group Financial Director is responsible for finance-related risks including treasury management, taxation and hedging.
Business unit Within Afrens operating business units, risk management is everyones responsibility, but particular responsibilities and asset liewith the business unit and asset managers.
They should ensure the specific country and asset risks are communicated managers effectively to both the local workforce, who then implement the mitigating measures, and to senior management, toensure risks are appropriate for the corporate strategy and riskappetite.
Risk manager The Risk manager is responsible for maintaining and implementing the business risk management system.
The role involves reviewing and updating the risk management procedures and supporting the business to refresh and review their risks regularly.
The manager works with the risk owners to ensure new and emerging risks are identified and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee in regular updates on business risks.
Audit manager The Audit manager is responsible for the independent monitoring and assessment of internal controls based on the business risk profile.
This involves preparation of a risk based Annual Plan, providing an independent review of business activities making recommendations to improve the internal control framework, and contributing to the development ofrisk and controls awareness throughout the organisation.
The Audit manager reports directly to the Audit and RiskCommittee.
High Environmental Field delivery safety Security incidents Unfulfilled incidents PSC work obligations GeoHost political risk community Bribery and action corruption Oil price volatility Taxation and other Management legislation Loss of key of growth changes employees Exploration failure Treasury management Low High Likelihood of occurrence Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Magnitude of impact
