d e i I f i m t n p e r d o i v s e e m v i e t n c t e s j i b m o p o l t e s m t e a n e t r e h d T d e w e i v e r r T o h t r e e s a t s s e v q Report of the Directors Principal risks and uncertainties We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives and protect our reputation The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation of mitigating activities.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management Group board and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms put in place to mitigate risks.
This process explicitly recognises the relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate and Risk register appropriate.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 40.
The Groups Risk Register is compiled by the Management Board.
Each member of the Management Board individually sets out Management board risks, the likelihood and consequence of crystallisation and mitigating controls for his area of responsibility.
These are then reviewed by the Management Board as a whole and the Group Risk Register is created.
The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register when the annual budget is set and at each of the two forecast reviews throughout the year.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel is responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Groups Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the table below.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Commercial risks Input cost volatility Reduced profitability Risk area and potential impact Risk area and potential impact Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other We operate in extremely competitive markets.
If we fail to compete effectively cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
Mitigating controls Mitigating controls This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able appropriate.
The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have to invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers.
We seek to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between continually strive to widen our customer base.
Despite challenging trading them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our branded products.
requests for price increases can be fully justified.
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal to customers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and developing these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
Operational risks We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we Inability to source milk continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues.
Risk area and potential impact Our commitment to corporate responsibility remains a key part of our business strategy and is an important part of our overall proposition to some customers.
Without milk we would not have a business.
Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects Reduced demand from consumers dairy cows could restrict milk supply.
This in turn could lead to lower sales and profits.
Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely Risk area and potential impact affected.
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, Mitigating controls ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk Mitigating controls suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures that affect both the farms and our business.
The majority of our milk comes Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of at least one consumer trends.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided year.
Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk production and by dairy products and develop healthier products.
We also continue to are alert to changes in supply.
We aim to pay a fair, market related milk price maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development and closely monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers in order to ensure we pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have  packaging, and healthier variants of branded goods.
established procedures for allocating milk between our businesses if a shortWe have increased our direct involvement with government to understand and term shortfall in supply does arise.
We have contingency plans established for influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
major incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board.
16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p01-p17.
indd 16 04 06 2013 02:59 i u t c a e n j t i b f i o e d s s e n i s u B E x d i s e t r i o n t g i n c o o m n t r e o c l s n a a s m s r e o s f s r e e P d Report of the Directors Failure of a key supplier Financial risks Risk area and potential impact Pension scheme Risk area and potential impact We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial penalties from customers if suppliers failure leaves us unable to supply.
Failure Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and systems.
buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we Mitigating controls may then have to increase our contributions.
Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers ability to supply and puts in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate.
Mitigating controls We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve technology suppliers.
the Funds financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business.
Our recent one-off cash contribution of 40 million to the Pension Fund reduces Other operational risks the risk of the deficit increasing.
Risk area and potential impact An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or Legal and compliance risks deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
We are also reliant Risk area and potential impact on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
There is a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
Mitigating controls Mitigating controls Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality controls in place to minimise potential risks.
Plans are maintained to respond We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and Group.
Our business is also committed to the health and safety of all our actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes.
We employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that complete their work safely.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the UK engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and Bribery Act.
hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
Our information technology systems are regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas.
We have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover Major project risk for property damage and business interruption risks.
Risk area and potential impact To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational People risks projects following strategic reviews.
Successful execution of these projects is often key to delivering strategic objectives.
At the same time we have to Disease epidemic ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery of products and services to our customers.
Risk area and potential impact A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of our Mitigating controls employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service customers.
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Supervisory governance Mitigating controls structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place for and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate known epidemic risks.
backfilling and use of third parties.
Recruitment and retention Risk area and potential impact We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
Mitigating controls We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
We have proposed changes to our long-term share option scheme better to align the interests of management to shareholders and improve its effectiveness in delivering retention.
There is a performance review and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people.
We undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship with our employees and their engagement.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 17 72236 Glasshouse p01-p17.
